01.23.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Chairwoman of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, today applauded the House Democrats appointed to serve on the Science Committee for the 116th Congress. “It is a pleasure to welcome the new and returning Members to the Science, Space, and Technology Committee,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I look forward to collaborating with all of them on an agenda that harnesses research and innovation to address the many challenges that this nation faces. There is much work to be done. I am excited to get started.” The Democratic Members are listed below: Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Chairwoman Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Rep. Dan Lipinski (IL-3) Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1) Rep. Ami Bera (CA-7) Rep. Conor Lamb (PA-17) Rep. Lizzie Fletcher (TX-7) Rep. Haley Stevens (MI-11) Rep. Kendra Horn (OK-5) Rep. Mikie Sherrill (NJ-11) Rep. Brad Sherman (CA-30) Rep. Jerry McNerney (CA-9) Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20) Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11) Rep. Don Beyer (VA-8) Rep. Charlie Crist (FL-13) Rep. Sean Casten (IL-6) Rep. Katie Hill (CA-25) Rep. Ben McAdams (UT-4) Rep. Jennifer Wexton (VA-10) # # #
01.21.2019	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on the commemoration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day: “Throughout his life, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. served as an inspiration to Americans from all across our nation who sought to make this country better and ensure that Civil Rights were guaranteed for all. His voice, vision and wisdom helped rally millions of Americans to join the effort demanding peace, justice and equality. “The Civil Rights movement grew out of the necessity of the time, as African Americans were forced to live in the shadow of the Jim Crow era. This was a period when we were unable to enjoy the full rights granted to us by the Constitution. It was out of these circumstances that Dr. King led a movement to restore the belief that all are created equal and demand equal treatment by promoting the cause of nonviolent, civil disobedience. Only through the public pressure and bold action that Dr. King encouraged were the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson. And it is these achievements that we remember, honor, and celebrate today. “As we observe a national day of service in his name, let us seek to bring progress and prosperity to all Americans, and let us promote the ideals he lived by and spread his message of compassion and love.” # # #
01.19.2019	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump proposed conditional protection for DACA recipients and temporary protected status holders in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border wall in a White House speech: “We’ve been down this road with the president before to only find ourselves in this very situation. The difference now is that 800,000 Americans have been without paychecks for the last 29 days because of President Trump. “The proposal the president just made does not address the most pressing crisis on hand: the government shutdown. President Trump can and must reopen on the government at once, restore the pay that our federal workers have earned and restart essential services that millions of Americans rely on. Once he does this, Democrats in the House will continue to pass bills that bolster and enhance border security measures and will be willing to come to the table to discuss comprehensive immigration reform. “These are all steps we are ready to take, but we will only consider this action once the government is reopened. Let me be absolutely clear: Temporary protection in exchange for the construction of a permanent wall is not a serious solution. The president’s proposal today fails to bring us closer to finding a solution to fix our broken immigration system.” ###
01.11.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Chairwoman of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, yesterday introduced the National Gun Violence Research Act, a bill designed to authorize research programs that examine policies that reduce gun violence and lower death totals. The legislation, also referred to as H.R. 435, would charge the Justice Department, the Department of Health and Human Services, the National Science Foundation and the National Institute of Standards and Technology to carry out the programs. “It is truly bewildering that Congress has failed in its duty to address the threat of gun violence in our country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Gun violence is both a public health crisis and a daunting criminal justice challenge. It is past time for action to address it; and one important component for effective action is understanding the problem. We need more research to understand the impact of policies like assault weapons bans, concealed-carry laws, and minimum age requirements on outcomes like suicide, violent crime, and unintended injury and death.” The bill places focus on a comprehensive review of the best ways to reduce the number of lives lost to gun violence each year by calling on the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy to oversee the research efforts. “The National Gun Violence Research Act enables a whole-of-government approach to expanding our knowledge-base on the nature, causes, consequences, and prevention of gun violence,” added Congresswoman Johnson. “If we are to effectively curb the gun violence epidemic in America, we must invest in gun violence research.” In order to address all components that contribute to gun violence, Congresswoman Johnson is coordinating this effort with fellow committee chairs, Congressman Jerrold Nadler, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Congressman Frank Pallone, chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “I want to acknowledge the leadership of Chairman Pallone and Chairman Nadler on this issue. Gun violence research is an issue that necessarily spans multiple federal agencies and, therefore, multiple congressional committees,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I look forward to working alongside my colleagues in the 116th Congress to advance the field of gun violence research in order to improve the health and welfare of the American public.” # # #
01.10.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today joined House Democrats to pass legislation that funds the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing and Urban Development as well as other key agencies in order to restart these agencies’ essential functions. The bills, which passed the House of Representatives with bipartisan support, seek to ensure air travel and highway transportation are safe for all Americans and that key services for homebuyers and renters are restored. “Families in my district and all across Texas suffer each day that the president and Senate Republicans refuse to carry out their responsibilities and allow this Trump Shutdown to continue,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Keeping our roadways and airways safe is a crucial responsibility of the government, and there is no reason to keep the department which executes this function shutdown.” Earlier today, Congresswoman Johnson also voted to re-open the Department of Agriculture to guarantee vulnerable Texas families receive critical SNAP benefits, such as food stamps, and ensure the FDA and USDA can continue to inspect food and prevent a public health epidemic. “The longer this shutdown goes on, the more likely it becomes that 3,724,688 Texans --79 percent of whom are in families with children – are unable to put food on the table,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Alarmingly, the ongoing Trump Shutdown endangers the health of our communities as hundreds of FDA and USDA food inspectors are being forced to stop doing their jobs, putting the safety of the food we eat at risk. As the first registered nurse elected to Congress, it is of grave concern that the president doesn’t seem to care, threatening to keep the government and its critical food safety responsibilities shut down for ‘years.’” On day one of the new 116th Congress, the House Democratic Majority took the first steps to restore certainty to people's lives by passing a complete funding package with bipartisan proposals to re-open government. Yet, Senate Republican leadership refused to bring that bill up for a vote. Congresswoman Johnson also voted to fund the IRS so that American families receive tax refunds on time. Over the coming days, Democrats are taking action to re-open all government agencies by passing individual, bipartisan appropriations bills so that we can meet the needs of Texas families, protect our borders and respect American workers. “The president needs to come to his senses, withdraw his $5-billion demand and choose the American people instead of his ineffective and inefficient border wall,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “If he wants to demonstrate proper leadership, the president should announce his agreement to sign the legislation to re-open these departments and encourage the Senate to pass this legislation. House Democrats believe in governing responsibly and will not allow hard-working Texans or the American people to be victims of this pointless shutdown. We will continue to work to re-open government, and keep our promise to deliver progress for all Americans.” # # #
01.04.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after being elected, by unanimous consent, chairwoman of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, becoming the committee’s first African-American and female chair: “It is a great honor to be selected by my Democratic colleagues to serve as the Chairwoman of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “I look forward to leading the Committee as we pursue a constructive legislative agenda that advances our nation’s research, development, and innovation enterprise and conducting oversight that will explore emerging science and technology issues and the impacts of the Administration’s science policies on the public and the nation as a whole. We must ensure that our tax dollars are being used effectively, the use of science by our agencies is being protected, and our public health and the environment are not being endangered. “In my 26 years on this Committee, I have seen some of the best examples of what happens when we come together as lawmakers to work towards solutions. There is much work to be done. I hope that every Member appointed to this Committee will join with me to find solutions for the challenges of today and tomorrow.” # # #
01.03.2019	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on the passing of Southwest Airlines Co-Founder, Herb Kelleher, who died at the age of 87: “Southwest Airlines is part of the fabric of North Texas, and no one embodies the spirit of the company more than Herb Kelleher. I was shocked and saddened to learn of his passing today. Since the first Southwest flight took off from Dallas Love Field Airport in 1971, Mr. Kelleher forever changed the trajectory of the DFW Metroplex. For the first time, flying was inexpensive and accessible for all Americans, and this was because of Herb Kelleher. “My sincere condolences are with the Kellehers and the Southwest family he loved so deeply. Let us celebrate the life of a man who made the awe and beauty of flight possible for so many to experience.” # # #
12.31.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Clinic and UT Southwestern Medical Center have been awarded more than $4.4 million in grant funding by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The two medical facilities received $4,166,624 and $243,000, respectively. “Every American needs health care, and it is the most fundamental of human rights that the government must ensure,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As a non-practicing registered nurse and a Member of Congress, I’ve witnessed the transformative impact better health care can have on a community. It’s important to remember that in addition to quality administration of health care, health care research can bring long-term and wide-ranging benefit. That is why I am particularly delighted to announce these two grants to the MLK Family Clinic and UT Southwestern.” The award to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Clinic will bolster the facility’s health care delivery and administrative procedures. The clinic has been serving southern Dallas County since 1986 and offers preventative, pediatric and women’s health care. UT Southwestern has garnered a well-deserved reputation as one of the most prominent medical research entities in the nation, and the grant will fund new research into arboviruses, such as West Nile, that are transmitted through mosquitos and tics. “In spite of the attention and focus of many committed professionals, Texas has the nation’s highest number of uninsured Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is my hope that this funding will help lower that number and ultimately bring better quality of life to the people of District 30.” # # #
12.22.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement regarding the partial shutdown of the United States government: “President Trump’s forced government shutdown is a disservice to the hard-working professionals in the Federal government and to the American people. As Ranking Member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, I want to point out that our federal science agencies have a long history of working hard on research and education programs that return huge payoffs to the American people. Those agencies are basically closed for business today. As I’ve noted in previous shutdowns, as our competitors in other countries surge ahead in their R&D investments, we have basically shut down a large chunk of our federal science and technology enterprise. Shutting down the government is an embarrassment and the President should not be ‘proud’ of it. “It is important to consider that President Trump was presented with a bipartisan agreement to keep the government open and to keep paying the country’s 800,000 federal employees while we come to terms on a full budget. Instead, President Trump chose to demand $5 billion for an unattainable and irresponsible border wall over the American people. This decision by the president, and the decision by the Republican leadership of the House to follow his lead, will leave the nation’s federal employees – including almost 33,000 in Texas alone – without pay during the holiday season. The harm this shutdown will cause rests squarely with the President and his party. “This will not stop me and every member of the Democratic Party in Washington from continuing to work to keep the government funded. It is up to the president and House Republicans, however, to accept the terms the Senate has agreed to and that my Democratic colleagues in the House support.” # # #
12.20.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Formerly Incarcerated Reenter Society Transformed Safely Transitioning Every Person Act, or First Step Act, sending the bill to the President’s desk for his signature: “The First Step Act represents a milestone in our quest for true criminal justice reform. This piece of legislation makes improvements to our justice system that correct current issues by allowing judges more discretion in sentencing, limiting the harsh potency of mandatory minimums, and adding $75 million in funding to prevent recidivism. “Additionally, we were able to secure the retroactive application of the Fair Sentencing Act, which will make 4,000 currently imprisoned individuals eligible for early release, and this bill brings relief to sentencing disparities, which overwhelmingly affect African Americans and other minorities. These are all reasons why I joined my colleagues in voting to pass this bill out of the House today. “While there is much more that needs to be accomplished to truly achieve the criminal justice reform we all seek, I am heartened by the good this will bring once it becomes law. It restores hope to some who felt that even what was agreed upon in this legislation was beyond reach and will stand out as a bipartisan success that weathered a difficult legislative process to passage. “Congressional Democrats will continue our work to pass reforms that build on the progress of the First Step Act, and I remain committed to join them in this effort.” # # #
12.15.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after a federal judge ruled the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate unconstitutional, resulting in great uncertainty for the American health care market: “In six years, the Affordable Care Act has brought millions of Americans health care for the first time in their lives, and despite these successes, Republicans have sought to undermine it and therefore jeopardize the health care for a great many American families. This outcome has been realized by the decision adjudicated by a federal judge in Texas. It is crucial to keep in mind that after failing to repeal the ACA, the Republican campaign to undermine and handicap the seminal health care law of our generation. “While the legal ramifications of this judicial decision remains unclear, I want those who believe in the fundamental right of universal health care to understand how fragile even our most profound legislative achievements are in these politically uncertain and unstable times. As an individual who began my career as a nurse and the first nurse to ever be elected to Congress, I know the positive impact access to quality health care can make on the lives of countless American families. It is this firm conviction that will power me to join my Democratic colleagues in the majority of the new Congress to pass comprehensive health care reforms that expand health care coverage throughout this country. This is my promise to the American people and my constituents of District 30.” ###
12.14.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services awarded Children’s Medical Center Dallas with a $2,887,257 grant. The funding will enhance the Children’s Graduate Medical Education Payment Program. “Children’s Hospital is a world-class medical institution, which serves families by providing, at times, life-saving care for the young. I am delighted to announce that Children’s will receive additional funding to help train the next generation of medical professionals who will care for children that have taken ill,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As someone who began my career as a nurse offering medical care, I believe there a few causes more deserving of this funding than teaching new doctors and nurses to offer care for the young. It is a great pleasure to congratulate Children’s Hospital on receiving this award.” The grant funding period runs through September 30, 2019. # # #
12.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today applauded the passage of the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. As the ranking member on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, Congresswoman Johnson was selected to serve on the Conference Committee assigned to merge the House and Senate versions of the legislation, also referred to as the Farm Bill. “The Farm Bill is an important piece of legislation that is designed to anticipate and address the needs of farmers over the next five years and tackle the issue of food insecurity for those who are less fortunate,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While the version of the bill passed earlier this year by the House failed to strike a balanced approach, I am happy to say that this compromised version does exactly that. This bill maintains current benefit levels for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) while also ensuring that none of the program’s recipients who direly need its benefits are kicked off the program. This means millions of Americans can rest assured that programs like SNAP will continue to keep food on the table in their time of need.” The passage of this bill received strong support from key stakeholders, including the Texas Farm Bureau, Feeding America, The Humane Society of the United States, and the AARP. The bill now heads to the president’s desk for his signature. # # #
12.10.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, and Congressman Elijah E. Cummings, ranking member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today issued a new Democratic staff report in response to a Republican staff report on the Committees’ joint investigation into the 2017 Equifax data breach. “Unfortunately, Committee Republicans issued a report without including Democratic suggestions to prevent data breaches in the future,” Cummings and Johnson said. “This was a missed opportunity to convert the Committees’ oversight efforts into concrete reforms that would help prevent future data breaches, hold companies accountable, and protect American consumers and their sensitive personal information.” Shortly after Equifax announced its breach, both Committees initiated a joint investigation into the cause of and measures to help prevent future breaches. The investigation was a rare bipartisan initiative. The Committees conducted interviews of company executives and reviewed thousands of pages of company documents. In addition, Democratic staff met with consumer advocacy groups. The Republican staff report merely reiterated findings by media outlets and the Government Accountability Office about Equifax’s cybersecurity vulnerabilities and the company’s lack of preparedness to protect breach victims. In contrast, the Democratic staff report provides detailed legislative and oversight recommendations to better protect consumers from future cyberattacks, including: requiring federal financial regulatory agencies to report their efforts to protect consumers from cybertheft and identify areas Congress could enhance agencies’ authorities to achieve that goal; requiring all federal contractors to comply with established cybersecurity standards and guidance; enacting a comprehensive notification law that governs how data breach victims should be notified; and amending the Federal Trade Commission Act to strengthen civil penalties for private sector violations of consumer data security requirements. Click here to read the Democratic staff report. # # #
12.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Department of Health and Human Services awarded a $1,694,735 grant to Lumin Education, an East Dallas Montessori. The grant was administered under the department’s Early Head Start program which targets pre-school aged children and families. “Investing in early childhood education is an investment in our future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The benefits of exposing children at a young age to the classroom sets them on a trajectory of increased knowledge, better social skills and a lifelong appreciation of learning. I am delighted to congratulate Lumin Education on receiving this funding and look forward to the great number of District 30 residents and children they will be able to serve in the coming years.” The funding will be allocated for the upcoming 2019 calendar year. # # #
12.06.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson on Monday hosted the 2018 Senior Living Conference for the older adults of the 30th Congressional District of Texas. The annual conference, now in its third year, connected attendees with resources focused on health care and financial planning to better enhance quality of life for senior citizens. Attendees received valuable information on senior preparedness from keynote speaker Ja’net Pearson of Portfolio Resident Services, as well as resources on health care and medical treatment from panelists Carolyn Toliver, of Community Council Advancing Solutions; Rev. Freedom McAdoo, from the DFW Faith Health Collaborative Community; Leslie Makhani, of Sonic Insurance Agency; and Ashley Smith, of Crescent Medical Center Lancaster during the conference hosted at the Lancaster Recreation Center. “At this moment in our country, people are living longer than ever. This also means that people must prepare for the challenges that come with a longer life as well,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I have hosted this conference so seniors can become aware of what steps they need to take to secure their financial stability, maintain the ability to make decisions about their future for themselves, while still receiving the proper health care they need.” More than a dozen organizations were on hand to offer information on resources designed to specifically benefit seniors, including institutions such as Parkland hospital, which provided free blood pressure screenings. “The response from this year’s conference has been wonderfully supportive of our efforts,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “And I’m delighted to continue supporting our seniors as long as I breathe.” # # #
12.01.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the passing of former President George Herbert Walker Bush: “President George Herbert Walker Bush was one of a kind. His grace and leadership guided our country through the Cold War and brought the conflict to a peaceful end. Few leaders have ever given as much of their life to this country as our 41st president did in his 94 years. I consider myself fortunate to have known the Bush family for many years and know that President Bush instilled in all of his children and grandchildren that a life of noble service to our nation is a life lived to its fullest. “My condolences are with his family, friends, and all those with whom he served in the United States Navy, the United States Congress, the United Nations, the Central Intelligence Agency and the White House. “I pray that as he joins his beloved Barbara, may he rest in peace.” # # #
11.30.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson on Monday recognized the participants of the 30th Congressional District of Texas’ 2018 Congressional App Challenge at a reception she hosted for the students and their families. More than 100 middle and high school students, who attend schools within District 30, participated in the competition that focuses on developing science and technological innovation in youth. More than 55 apps were built and submitted by participating students. The winning app, named “EZ Voter,” offers voters and constituents an easier method to communicate with their representatives on specific issues under consideration in Congress. Skyline High School student, Stephen “Dodge” Suprun, designed and submitted the app which won first-place. “This App Challenge is one of many efforts I put forward to engage our young people and encourage them to pursue their future dreams, but it is unique. This is the one program that serves as a platform for the youth to create practical solutions to challenges we face at this very moment,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This is why I am delighted to recognize each one of you today, for your imagination and innovation. If you all continue to carry the same determination and passion for science, your horizons are limitless.” The apps were graded on several factors, including aesthetic appeal and ease of use, by five judges, who work in the science, technology, engineering and mathematic fields in Dallas-Fort Worth. “Remember Me- Alzheimer’s Helper” and “ Sonia Learning Center (S.L.C.)” were awarded second and third place, respectively and were recognized at the reception hosted at Per Scholas, an information technology school that offers training and professional development courses. The Congressional App Challenge is a component of Congresswoman Johnson’s efforts to connect with the youth and expose them to better personal and professional opportunities. She also hosts the Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue, the Math and Science Lecture Series and the Youth Crime Prevention Summit each year. # # #
11.28.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) has received $2 million in grant funding from the Federal Transit Authority for the Red and Blue Line Platform Extension Project. The funding adds to the $58 million awarded this year as part of the authority’s Capital Investment Grant. “Improving transportation is a critical part of improving quality of life throughout North Texas, especially for those communities who need it most,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Increased mobility can mean access to better jobs, better healthcare and even better educations. These are just a few of the reasons why these DART rail platform extensions will provide great benefit, including safety improvements, to some of District 30’s residents. I am delighted to recognize DART for receiving this funding and look forward to continuing to support their endeavors as I have during my time in Washington.” # # #
11.11.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day: “One hundred years after the United States and our allies triumphed in World War I, we continue to recognize and celebrate those who have donned the uniform of our nation’s military in defense of Americans everywhere. As we honor the men and women who have fought to protect America, we express our deep gratitude for the sacrifices that our veterans have made. “I have often said there is no higher calling then to serve in our armed forces. As the granddaughter, daughter, niece, wife, and sister of veterans, I know that honoring the devotion of our servicemen and women is incomplete without recognizing the profound sacrifice their families make to support them. “From early in my life, I was raised to offer the highest respect to those who have served. It is this ideal that has guided my professional career – first as a nurse attending to the health needs of Dallas veterans, and later during my time as an elected representative fighting to ensure veterans receive the benefits they earned through their service. “During my time as a representative, I have been blessed with the opportunity to meet and represent veterans of every background, who, in every diverse way, represent the best values of America. Veterans Day is an opportunity to celebrate every veteran – including the 2.7 million African American veterans, the 1.5 million Hispanic veterans, the 342,000 Asian American Pacific Islander veterans and the 178,000 Native American veterans. “Today, as we acknowledge the enormous debt we owe to our veterans, let us begin to repay it by honoring and defending the ideals of democracy that they have died protecting.” # # #
11.08.2018	“After 307 mass shootings in our country this year, enough is enough. “We mourn the loss of the 12 Americans killed, including one police officer, in California. Once again, we are summoned to console the families who saw their loved ones killed at the hands of senseless gun violence. “Our country has demanded action on this issue, yet the epidemic has continued. Democrats will make passing comprehensive, universal background checks out of the House of Representatives a priority in the next congress. I urge the Trump administration and Senate Republicans to join the new Democratic House majority to enact common sense gun safety reforms next year. I repeat once again, we owe it to our constituents, that we must come together to pass significant gun violence prevention laws, as well as comprehensive mental health, immediately.” # # #
11.07.2018	Dallas, TX– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump today demanded the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions and installed as acting Attorney General Matthew Whitaker, who will now oversee Special Counsel Bob Mueller’s investigation: “President Trump has again taken a drastic measure that threatens the rule of law. The newly appointed acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, has been publically critical of Special Counsel Robert Mueller and the investigation he is conducting into the Trump campaigns connections to Russia. If President Trump made this decision to in any way limit, curtail or undermine the ability of Director Mueller to conduct his investigation into the president, he must know that neither the American people nor the incoming majority of Democrats in the House will allow such blatant obstruction of justice to take place. “It is entirely improper for Whitaker, because of his open hostility to the very crucial mission of the special counsel’s investigation, to now oversee the investigation, and therefore he must recuse himself from that responsibility. I understand that this is highly unlikely, and that only intensifies the urgency with which the House and Senate must pass into law a bill protecting Director Mueller’s investigation from being attacked in such a way. “For months now, Democrats have insisted that legislation protecting Director Mueller’s investigation from any intervention by the President be swiftly passed. Our belief in the necessity of this action comes directly out of the President’s lengthy history of irresponsibly nefarious actions. Republicans insisting that such legislation was unnecessary has been proven naive and incorrect today. “This moment demands our action. I implore Republicans in the House and Senate to put the American people and our democracy first and immediately pass legislation that insulates Director Mueller’s investigation from any further action President Trump or Mr. Whitaker may inevitably take which could limit the impact of its findings.” # # #
11.06.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, ranking member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, today released the following statement after the Democratic Party won a majority of seats in the House of Representatives: “I am heartened that Democrats will be in the Majority in the 116th Congress, and I cannot wait to get to work. If I am fortunate enough to be elected Chair of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, a Committee that I like to call the ‘Committee of the Future,’ I know that there is much that we can accomplish as Democrats and Republicans working together for the good of the nation. There is much to be done in the next Congress, and I believe that at a minimum we need to pursue an agenda that will: o Ensure that the United States remains the global leader in innovation, which will require attention to a wide range of activities: promoting effective STEM education solutions, engaging the underrepresented minorities and blue collar workers in the STEM fields, supporting a robust federally funded R&D enterprise and emerging areas of science and technology, defending the scientific enterprise from political and ideological attacks, and challenging misguided or harmful Administration actions; o Address the challenge of climate change, starting with acknowledging it is real, seeking to understand what climate science is telling us, and working to understand the ways we can mitigate it; and finally, o Restore the credibility of the Science Committee as a place where science is respected and recognized as a crucial input to good policymaking. “These three priorities will keep us very busy both legislatively and in carrying out the serious oversight that has been neglected by our Committee the past few Congresses. If appointed as Chair, I will work tirelessly to advance this agenda for the good of our nation.” # # #
11.01.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on the commencement of the open enrollment period, which allows individuals to purchase health care from the Affordable Care Act’s marketplace between November 1 and December 15: "Since Democrats passed the Affordable Care Act in 2010, millions of Americans have utilized the insurance market place to gain coverage for the first time. Beginning today, Americans once again have that chance with the start of open enrollment. “Despite Republican attempts to gut the ACA’s provisions, including its protections for people with preexisting conditions, in addition to their multiple attempts to repeal the law altogether, families will still have the opportunity to purchase quality, affordable plans this year. Most people will be able to enroll in plans costing less than $75 per month. “Should Democrats win back a congressional majority, we will make lowering health care and prescription drug costs a top priority. The American people deserve a congress that fights for the people, and Democrats all over the country, especially here in Texas, are promising to do just that.” # # #
10.27.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after 11 were killed and another six were injured in a shooting at Tree of Life Congregation synagogue in Pittsburgh, PA: "There is no place in America for this kind of violence. It's disheartening that the tone and rhetoric in the country is such that these kinds of horrific acts are allowed to take place. Today, all Americans must strongly condemn this divisiveness and hate and come together in support of the 11 men, women and children who we mourn and the six who were injured. "We in the Congress have the power to implement broadly-supported measures that will make an immediate difference -- chief among them, implementing mandatory background checks and reinstituting the assault weapons ban. My commitment to passing these policies and addressing the mental health crisis that persists remains as strong as ever. No citizen or person in a position of power should rest until we rid our country of the means to take the lives of innocent Americans." # # #
10.24.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today received a 97% score from The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. The Leadership Conference rates members of Congress based on their voting record and awarded Congresswoman Johnson with the highest score given to any member of the Texas Congressional Delegation. “At this crucial time in our country, the importance of protecting every American’s civil rights cannot be overstated,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am appreciative to The Leadership Conference for the important role the organization plays in supporting the civil rights and human rights of all Americans, regardless of their background, and I am grateful for this recognition. Know that my commitment to defending these key values and liberties.” The Leadership Conference is an organization comprising more than 200 national groups that are dedicated to promoting and protecting civil and human rights of individuals residing in the United States. The voting record score accounts for votes taken by members of the House of Representatives and the Senate on issues relating to civil rights and human rights, including economic justices and income inequality, immigration, health care and criminal justice reform. # # #
10.15.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after President Donald Trump disputed the veracity of climate change during an interview on 60 Minutes: “Feelings are not facts, and it’s past time the president comes to understand that. We have been dealing with the effects of human-induced climate change for many years, and we need to heighten our efforts to combat it. Instead, President Trump is pedaling in misinformation. His inherent lack of understanding on this matter – a position that 97 percent of scientists, including those in NASA, agree on – is dangerous. As the latest special report from the United Nations makes clear, we must act now in extraordinary ways to confront climate change. This is the responsibility that Donald Trump bears as president, and it is one we all must fulfill while he continues to abdicate this crucial responsibility.” # # #
10.15.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today met with Mayor Curtistene McCowan of DeSoto to discuss issues of importance to the 30th Congressional District and the City of DeSoto. The two leaders shared a dialogue on recent occurrences in the city and left the meeting with a greater understanding of their two positions and a greater appreciation for each other’s perspectives. Congresswoman Johnson and Mayor McCowan have been in constant communication with one another and pledge to continue working together. They both believe in a shared vision in which DeSoto’s people and its institutions continue to foster trust in order to build on the city’s current progress. # # #
10.09.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson Saturday hosted her 26th annual Community Appreciation Day. The program featured more than 25 vendors offering information and services to the enthusiastic attendees, as well as musical and dance performances, which showcased the great diversity of the 30th Congressional District of Texas. “District 30 is a district of opportunity, and I am grateful for the opportunity to represent it in Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This day is my chance to say ‘thank you’ to the friends and neighbors who have given their support to me and each other over these years. I hope everyone who attended enjoyed themselves and left feeling proud to be a part of this district.” The event was supported by local businesses and health care administrators who provided educational materials and valuable information to those in attendance. Attendees were also treated to musical performances from the band Jazz Ambiance and dance performances by Anita Martinez Ballet Folklorico and Soul Inspiration Line Dancers. Photos from the event can be viewed here. # # #
10.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the United Nation’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) announced heightened concerns about the impact of climate change and global warming in a special report published Monday: “The IPCC Special Report restates much of what we have known for years – climate change has already occurred, and we are seeing the consequences through extreme weather such as devastating droughts and more severe storms, vanishing Arctic sea ice, and rising sea levels. The report makes crystal clear that we must act now, today, in extraordinary ways to confront climate change. It also tells us what it will cost to combat climate change, but we can either pay those costs now or pay them later as a result of the devastation that will occur to ‘health, livelihoods, food security, water supply, human security, and economic growth’ if we allow it to continue to warm to even the Paris Agreement target of two degrees Celsius. “This report was prepared using ‘6,000 scientific publications, drew contributions from 132 authors, and had more than 1,000 scientists review the findings.’ And it concludes that climate change is real and we can do something about it. We must heed this dire warning and act by sharply cutting carbon emissions and investing in research. We must act for the future of humanity.” # # #
10.06.2018	Dallas. TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after Judge Brett Kavanaugh was confirmed as an Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court by the Senate: “From the moment President Trump announced this nomination, I opposed Judge Kavanaugh’s confirmation based on his judicial record. In his decisions, writings and speeches, Judge Kavanaugh repeatedly expressed his personal contempt for a woman’s right to choose, the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions and legitimate and warranted investigations into sitting presidents. “As this process unfolded, Judge Kavanaugh’s actions in light of the credible allegations of sexual assault against him have made my reservations to his nomination grow. In his testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee, his belligerent treatment of my Democratic colleagues cemented my belief that Judge Kavanaugh is unworthy of a seat on the highest court in the land. He has neither the integrity nor the temperament to serve as a Supreme Court justice. The court will forever be questioned as long as Judge Kavanaugh is the decisive vote in the harmful 5-4 decisions which will inevitably come. “It is important to note that Judge Kavanaugh was confirmed in the face of bipartisan opposition. History will duly remember those who demonstrated profound integrity and courage by opposing his nomination but also the Republican majority – determined to ‘plough right through’ in spite of the many revelations that questioned his fitness to serve and those that will certainly come to light in the very near future.” # # #
10.05.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, ranking member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, today introduced the Combating Sexual Harassment in Science Act of 2018, which would research efforts to better understand the causes and consequences of sexual harassment affecting individuals in the scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics workforce, including students and trainees. The legislation, officially named H.R. 7031, also directs additional research into policies focused on reducing the prevalence and negative impact of such harassment. “Recently there have been a disturbing number of sexual harassment allegations emerging across our society, including in the scientific workforce and academia. This is by no means a new phenomenon, but this troubling behavior is now beginning to receive the attention it deserves,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The academic workplace, when compared to the military, private sector, and government, has the second-highest rate of sexual harassment, with 58% of women in academia experiencing sexual harassment. This behavior undermines career advancement for women in critical STEM fields, and many women report leaving promising careers in academic research due to sexual harassment. Women of color are even more likely to experience sexual harassment and to feel unsafe at work. “That is why I introduced H.R. 7031. It is our hope that this legislation will build upon progress already made by the National Science Foundation through recent updates to its sexual harassment policy. It is vital that grantees, as stewards of Federal money, take seriously their responsibility to foster a healthy working environment as they train the next generation of scientists. I hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in the House and Senate will support this legislation,” added Congresswoman Johnson. The bill is cosponsored by more than 30 members of the House of Representatives and received endorsements from more than 15 associations and organizations, including the Association for Women in Science and the Society of Women Engineers. Additional information on the bill can be found here. # # #
10.04.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today applauded the passage of the Federal Aviation Administration reauthorization bill, which will allocate approximately $4.35 billion per year for the FAA, out of the Senate. This reauthorization bill passed the House of Representatives passed last Wednesday and contains important protections for airline passengers and safety provisions, including new life-saving first officer training and experience requirements, as well as the presence of two fully qualified pilots in the cockpit of all passenger and cargo aircraft. “The aviation industry is critically important not just for the country, but for the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex in particular. Maintaining safe airplane standards is the principal responsibility entrusted to Congress. By passing this reauthorization bill, Congress has reconfirmed our commitment to providing the FAA the funding it needs to perform necessary functions of conducting oversight and implementing key safety regulations,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Included in this bill are consumer protections, such as new mandates that prevent passengers from being bumped from their seats on airplane.” The passage of this bill received support from key interest groups, including the Air Line Pilots Association, International, which heralded the bill’s comprehensive construction and applauded Congresswoman Johnson’s leadership as the senior Texan on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee. The bill also allocates $1.7 billion in disaster aid relief funding in response to Hurricane Florence last month. It now heads to president’s desk for his signature. # # #
09.24.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today release the following statement after Dallas Police Department Chief U. Renee Hall fired Amber Guyger from the city’s police department: “I agree with Chief Hall’s decision to fire Amber Guyger and hope it represents the first step in our search for justice for Botham Jean. Countless of Dallas’ finest are dedicated public servants, and this action today reiterates for all the great responsibility they bear in carrying out their mandate to serve and protect our community. Amber Guyger failed to do that when she took the life of Mr. Jean. I hope the decision taken by Chief Hall today brings some sense of peace for the Jean family and transparency for the community. “I continue to keep Botham Jean and his family in my prayers as he was laid to rest today. May he rest in peace.” # # #
09.14.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today hosted her 26th annual Science and Technology Brain Trust as part of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference. The program featured a panel of leaders in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields, who shared their experiences, in line with the program’s theme “Building the Future, Today: STEMulating the Next Generation of Leaders.” “Even though I’ve been doing this for a long time, I’m still impressed by the conversations we have when we get STEM professionals and students in the same room to talk about these issues,” said Congresswoman Johnson during panel. “I was and still am excited to hear about all of the work being done at our agencies, in the private sector, at advocacy groups, and in schools to help further the goal of more diversity in STEM.” Founded in 1993, the Science and Technology Brain Trust was designed by Congresswoman Johnson to expand the opportunities made available to people of color in STEM professions. This year’s panel was attended by more than 300 participants, including more than 200 students. The program offered the eager and enthusiastic attendees perspectives from panelists Dr. Talmesha Richards of STEMconnector; Niasia Williams of the National Society of Black Engineers; Maya Ajmera from the Society for Science & the Public; Telisa Toliver from Chevron Pipeline and Power; Kenneth Harris II of the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center; Dr. Knatokie Ford of Fly Sci Enterprise; Former NFL Cornerback Shawn Springs of Windpact; Dr. Jeanette J. Epps of NASA; and panel moderator Dr. Reagan Flowers of C-STEM Teacher and Student Support Services, Inc. Photos from the event are avaiblie here. # # #
09.13.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement commemorating the 24th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act: “In the 24 years since President Clinton signed the Violence Against Women Act into law, victims of violence across the country have received support to combat abuse. Never before had Congress so boldly risen to combat a serious epidemic directed at women, in particular, who are the targets of threats and violence in their homes, workplaces and elsewhere. “The progress that the Violence Against Women Act has helped achieve came as a result of both parties in Congress working together to provide protections that addressed a serious issue, not just during its initial passage in 1994 but again when it was twice reauthorized. As these provisions are set to expire in only four legislative days, I am hopeful that the Majority will join together with Democrats to pass a bill that would restore this vital law. With a show of bipartisan support, Congress can send a strong message that the American people will not tolerate violent crimes against women.” # # #
09.10.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today release the following statement regarding the ongoing investigation at the Dallas Police Department: “This has been a difficult time for our community. I agree with the decision Chief Hall made to turn over the investigation to the Texas Rangers. Although this process is expected to take time, I am confident this review will prove both independent and thorough. This action by Chief Hall, I hope, will give the community assurance that justice will be sought without bias, and no one will be shielded from facing accountability or responsibility for this tragic situation. “I request all to join me in keeping the family of Botham Jean in our prayers.” # # #
09.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Head Start of Greater Dallas and UT Southwestern Medical Center have been awarded more than $20 million in grants to support new and existing projects run by the two institutions. The grants awarded to Head Start of Greater Dallas, bolstering programs benefiting children and families, and UT Southwestern, supporting studies of diabetes, neurological disorders and alternative medicine, total $19,402,870 and $1,738,761 respectively. “In my 26 years in Congress, working to fund programs and research that benefit children and the ill has remained a top priority,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The work that Head Start of Greater Dallas and UT Southwestern engage in offers valuable benefit to countless people here in communities all over the Metroplex. These are organizations deserving of grants because more people will see their quality of life improve through the early childhood education and outstanding medical care that these two pillars of Dallas-Fort Worth offer. I am delighted to congratulate both on this wonderful news for District 30 and countless others in North Texas.” The five grants, administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, are earmarked for both administrative and program implementation purposes. # # #
09.07.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson yesterday submitted comments to Secretary Betsy DeVos during the Department of Education’s public comment period on a proposed rule change to rescind the Gainful Employment (GE) regulation, which ensures career programs keep tuition and fees in line with the earnings students could reasonably expect to make because of enrollment. The proposed changes would no longer require programs that fail to meet department standards, measuring a student’s prospective income versus debt incurred, to disclose their failed status but would allow them to still receive federal student aid. “These changes by the Department of Education hurt students and benefit failing institutions,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “According to data released last year, 98% of the 800-plus programs which failed to meet the standards were offered at for-profit colleges. This is yet another example of a department led by Secretary DeVos that favors the success of colleges which fail their students over the success of students themselves.” New estimates from the department project that an additional $5 billion of federal student aid will flow to programs that would have been barred from receiving them under GE. This entails not just less funding for students in programs with a proven track record of success but greater economic burdens for students who enroll in underperforming educations programs. “Following the lead set by the current administration, Secretary DeVos has exclusively implemented policies and regulatory rules that make it harder for students to succeed under the growing burdens of student loan debt,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I fail to identify the logic in these decisions if the department is sincerely seeking to fulfill its mission. Sadly, it seems the goal of Secretary DeVos’ Education Department is not to help students succeed but rather her friends in the for-profit industry.” The full comments from Congresswoman Johnson can be read here. # # #
09.05.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) awarded the Duncanville Fire Department funding under the agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The awarded grant funding totaled $43,637. “This funding provides support for the indispensable emergency services that Duncanville firefighters offer to the community,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “When seconds can mean the difference between life and death, the benefit this grant will bring to the fire department’s operations and safety programs is immeasurable. I congratulate the Duncanville Fire Department and all the department’s brave firefighters on receiving this funding for demonstrating their aptitude and success in responding to emergency situations.” FEMA administers these grants as part of its efforts to improve fire hazard preparedness levels across the country. The grant program will make $310.5 million available to enhance response capabilities in order to improve public safety. The Duncanville Fire Department is the second fire department serving the 30th Congressional District of Texas to receive federal grant funding in the past two weeks. # # #
09.04.2018	Washington, DC – Tomorrow, as oral arguments begin in Texas v. United States, a Republican-led lawsuit to strike down the Affordable Care Act’s protections for Americans living with pre-existing conditions, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voiced her firm opposition to the Republican assault on people with pre-existing conditions. The Republican lawsuit, coupled with their previously unsuccessful legislative efforts in Congress, jeopardizes the health care of 130 million Americans, including 68 million women and girls, nationwide. In Texas alone, the health care of 11,579,100 people, including 6,069,000 women and girls, could be dismantled if the lawsuit succeeds. “First, Republicans voted to take away protections for pre-existing conditions; now they’re suing to destroy these protections in the courts,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Last year, Texas families rose up to defeat the House Republican plan to end protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions like asthma, diabetes, cancer, mental illness or substance abuse and push tens of millions more off their affordable, quality coverage,” continued Congresswoman Johnson. “But once again, Republicans have chosen to ignore the will of the people. Now, we see that Republicans are pushing a lawsuit that will lead to insurers charging more to cover Americans with pre-existing conditions or deny them coverage altogether. It is absolutely appalling that Republicans are working to ensure innocent people, including babies and little children, could be deprived of affordable coverage for their entire lives.” According to reports from the Center for American Progress, the Republican efforts to eliminate protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions: Jeopardize the health care and financial stability of 11,579,100 Texans; Force 6,069,000 women and girls in Texas, including 534,000 pregnant women, to pay more for insurance or be denied coverage outright. “Americans’ health care will never be safe as long as Republicans maintain the majority in Washington,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud to stand with hard-working Texan families to fight the vicious GOP attacks on families’ quality, affordable coverage and to ensure that all have access to the health care they need. Democrats will continue our fight For The People and give Texans a voice to protect their care and lower their health costs.” ###
09.03.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement marking the commemoration of Labor Day: “Labor Day provides us an opportunity to celebrate those who create America’s success: the working men and women of this great country. Every time our country has invested in our workers, our faith in them has been rewarded. As a non-practicing registered nurse and dues paying union member, I know the value good-paying jobs bring, not just the financial stability they provide but a sense of dignity. “I believe that a strong middle class is the backbone of our economy and Labor Day presents us a reminder that our work must again focus on building a strong and growing middle class. In order to make this a reality, I strongly support raising the federal minimum wage to a living wage, eliminating the gender pay gap and protecting retirement security. As a staunch supporter of labor rights and the most senior Texan on the House Transportation Committee, I strongly believe we must invest in our infrastructure to create more good-paying jobs, strengthen our economy, and build prosperity for all Americans. “And as I continue my work in Congress, I pledge to support working families in District 30 and all across America.” # # #
08.30.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that DeSoto Fire Rescue has been awarded $98,182 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). “Perhaps no one plays a more vital role in keeping our communities safe than effective and efficient emergency services personnel. I am delighted that our brave firefighters in DeSoto will receive additional funds and resources to aid them in their service of friends and neighbors,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In emergency situations, firefighters and other first responders often risk their lives to save others. Now, DeSoto Fire Rescue will be better able to save more lives because of this beneficial grant. I am appreciative to DeSoto Fire Rescue for its outstanding service to the community and express my congratulations for demonstrating this service in order to receive this important funding.” The funding is part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, which awards funds through a competitive selection process. The grants are received by fire departments that establish expertise in community risk reduction and improving firefighter safety. Since 2001, the grant program has awarded approximately $7 billion in grants to first responder organizations. # # #
08.28.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement marking the 55th anniversary of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King’s ‘I Have a Dream Speech’ and the March on Washington: “55 years after Dr. King shared his American Dream with the country, the work to bring that dream to reality continues. In front of Lincoln’s memorial, with Washington’s monument on the horizon, Dr. King addressed the crowd gathered at the end of the March on Washington. During what became a seminal moment in American history, Dr. King spoke words that still inspire us to achieve our highest ideals. On this anniversary, let us rededicate ourselves to creating a country where all are welcome, all are free and all are equal.” # # #
08.21.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) and Dallas Love Field Airport have received $10,421,358 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Transportation. DART and Love Field received $9,516,358 and $905,000 respectively. “In over 25 years representing District 30, I have worked alongside local leaders in many communities to develop new and improve existing transportation systems that benefit people all across North Texas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “DART and Love Field Airport are vital cornerstones of Dallas’ local and national transportation system. In addition to its importance as a local transit entity, DART is key to helping foster growth and development across DFW, particularly for families to access greater mobility and, therefore, opportunities at a better quality of life. Love Field, likewise, serves a critical role in the economic success of Dallas as a city and North Texas as a region.” The grant funding awarded to DART comes as part of the Fiscal Year 2018 Positive Train Control Grants under the Consolidated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Improvements Grant Program. DART, which operates both bus and rail service in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, serves more than 220,000 riders across 13 cities in North Texas daily. Love Field, operated by the City of Dallas, serves seven million passengers a year to destinations all over the country. “Investments in infrastructure and transportation are essential to the growth of cities and economies in every corner of the country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am delighted with what this news means for the people of District 30 and wish to pass a long my congratulations to DART and Love Field Airport on this awarded funding. I look forward to the improvements in transportation that will soon follow.” # # #
08.21.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement announcing her opposition to the Trump Administration’s proposal to reverse the Obama Administration’s Clean Power Plan, which is projected to only reduce pollutant emissions by a negligible amount by 2030 whereas the Obama Administration plan would have cut emissions by 19 percent: “Once again President Trump has decided to ignore science and put the health of the American people and our environment at risk. It is appalling that President Trump’s EPA was just touting the fact that harmful air pollutants have dropped by 73 percent since the Clean Air Act was enacted at the very same time they were working to roll back the clock on that very achievement. “Instead of promoting innovation and the creation of new jobs in the renewable energy industry, this Administration insists we continue to creep further back into the dark ages. This action falls in line with a long and growing list of the Trump Administration’s attack on the environment and public health. We should continue working to do what it takes to improve our air quality, not sacrificing our Nation’s health to benefit the pockets of coal industry executives. I hope that we do not lose our momentum in the fight for better air quality and mitigation of climate change due to the President’s obsession with the coal industry.” # # #
08.17.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that UT Southwestern Medical Center has received $50,000 in grant funding from the National Science Foundation to support research at the medical center. The grant recognizes efforts at UT Southwestern to develop new medical tools using virtual reality, which are thought to have practical applications in both diagnosing illness and improving the viability of treatment options. Researchers leading the initiative believe these new tools can lead to an increase in surgical success rates, lower health care costs and advances in medical education practices. This project focuses on planning structural heart disease interventions and surgeries using true 3D visualization with modern virtual reality techniques. “Every day, we witness breakthroughs in medicine that help save lives and funding research that leads us to achieve these advances should always remain a top priority,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “UT Southwestern is one of the finest medical institutions in our country, and I wish to congratulate the researchers on receiving this funding so they can continue discovering new innovations in the medical profession.” # # #
08.15.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after the White House announced President Donald Trump had revoked the security clearance of former CIA Director John Brennan: “This unprecedented decision by President Trump is a clear signal that he prefers to suppress the voices of those he views as political opponents – even our country’s best national security minds. Director Brennan is a patriot who has honorably served and led American intelligence agencies under presidents of both parties. The president’s politicization of the intelligence community adds to the list of actions he’s taken which threaten our national security, and this attempt to silence security and intelligence experts only worsens his already dangerous behavior.” # # #
08.14.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement in celebration of Pakistani Independence Day 2018: “It is a particular joy to wish my friends in the Pakistani-American community a happy Pakistani Independence Day. As Pakistan has formed an important strategic relationship with the United States, Americans of Pakistani origin have been great contributors to the cultural, social and economic growth of our nation. The celebrations on this Independence Day are of special significance as they precede the inauguration of a new government, and I express my optimism that, under the guidance of the new leadership in Pakistan, we can continue to build on the progress that our existing relationship has helped us achieve. I am hopeful that this Independence Day marks a renewed commitment to common progress for our two countries. I am delighted to send my best wishes to all Pakistanis and Pakistani-Americans celebrating Pakistan’s Independence Day. # # #
08.09.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today attended the ribbon cutting ceremony of the Dallas VA Medical Center Emergency Department. The new department provides 27 Main Emergency Department beds, each in its own individual, private room. “It is important that we, as a nation, continue giving our servicemen and servicewomen – who gave this country every measure of their devotion to protect the we freedoms we all hold most dear – the care they need when they are most vulnerable,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This new Emergency Department essentially doubles the capacity of the Medical Center and doubles the accessibility of veterans to get the care they need right now. I am pleased to open the new Emergency Department and look forward to many years of productive use.” Congresswoman Johnson, the first registered nurse elected to Congress, served as the Dallas VA Hospital’s chief psychiatric nurse for 16 years and represents a large population of veterans from the 30th Congressional District of Texas who utilize the VA system for their primary health care services. # # #
08.07.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson yesterday hosted her annual Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue at Southern Methodist University for students from all across North Texas. This year’s summit, featuring “Dynamics of Diversity” as this year’s theme, connected more than 60 high school students from across the DFW Metroplex with prominent youth and professional leaders who shared their experiences and stories of diversity to inspire the students and adults in attendance. “Diversity is not a burden to bear but a gift to celebrate,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “All of us, regardless of where we come from or where we live today, can determine the destiny of our country by embracing our role as future leaders, so long as we put our minds to it. No matter what obstacles we face, success is in our own hands. And by coming together around our common hopes to achieve common goals, we can continue to make not only ourselves better but our community and our country as well.” Each year as summer concludes, Congresswoman Johnson hosts this day-long summit, in conjunction with the Aga Khan Council for Central United States, to bring students from diverse communities together to bridge divides by offering a forum to not just constructively address and gain insights into the differences amongst each other but learn to celebrate these differences as proof of human diversity. Participants engaged in an interactive project to develop the key elements necessary for communities to embody diversity. “There is diversity in humanity. There is beauty and grace in the inherent variety and uniqueness within each one of us,” said Salim Rahimi, Honorary Secretary of the Aga Khan Council for Central United States. “And therefore, we always look forward to collaborating with Congresswoman Johnson’s office to create this platform for a dialogue on diversity for our bright students of today and star leaders of tomorrow.” Speakers at the summit: · Mary Elizabeth (Liz) Cedillo-Pereira, Director of the Dallas Office of Welcoming Communities and Immigrant Affair · GianCarlo Franco, Attorney at Refugee and Immigration Center for Education and Legal Services (RACIES) · Dr. Kristen Guillory, Founder of KSGuillory Enterprises/ Cozy Conversations Author, Speaker, Trainer, Therapist and Coach · Sahil Gilani, Catholic Charities · PeriSean Hall, CEO PeriSean Enterprise: Speaker, Author and Word Doctor · Sofia Babool, Youth Leader – Ismaili Muslim Community · Zeenya Meherally, Youth Leader – Ismaili Muslim Community The Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue is a component of Congresswoman Johnson’s efforts to connect with the youth and provide them with opportunities to broaden their personal and professional horizons. She also hosts the Math and Science Lecture Series and the Youth Crime Prevention Summit each year. Photos from the event can be viewed here. # # #
08.02.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, released the following statement after the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration released its 28th annual State of the Climate report, which found record high levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, rising sea levels, rising global land and ocean temperatures, and record low sea ice coverage in both the Arctic and Antarctic: “I am not surprised to learn that 2017 was the third warmest year on record, following the highs set in 2016 and 2015. It seems that we hear of new devastating wildfires, catastrophic flooding, and other extreme events happening around the globe on a daily basis. For over 40 years, science has shown that life on this planet would be faced with a climate crisis. We have known that it is imperative that we act to reduce carbon emissions to mitigate the effects of climate change. Our children and grandchildren’s futures depend on our ability to address this issue with a sense of urgency. I implore my colleagues to make this issue a priority before it is too late.” # # #
07.31.2018	Dallas, TX – Fifty three years after President Lyndon B. Johnson signed Medicare and Medicaid into law on July 30, 1965, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson highlighted a new study from House Democrats’ Seniors Task Force co-chairs, Congresswomen Jan Schakowsky and Doris Matsui, detailing years of efforts from House Republicans to attack seniors’ Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. “The anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid should be a joyous occasion to celebrate one of our country’s greatest achievements,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “But years of cruel and cynical attacks on these vital initiatives by Republicans have put the futures of Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security – and the millions of seniors who rely on them – in peril. After passing a tax cut which overwhelmingly benefitted the rich, Republicans have made crystal clear that they plan more cuts to Medicare and Medicaid, more premium increases for families and more tax giveaways to Pharmaceutical companies as they hike Texans seniors’ prescription drug costs.” The report extensively examines years of specific Republican benefit cut policies that would affect older Americans, found in Republican budget resolutions since the GOP took the House Majority in 2011: Medicare premium support; Medicaid block grants; An increase in eligibility age for Social Security and Medicare; and, Repeal of the Affordable Care Act, which destroys protections for people with pre-existing conditions, imposes an age tax and raises prescription drug costs. These proposed cuts threaten the 3,757,335 Medicare beneficiaries, 512,927 Medicaid beneficiaries over age 65, and 4,126,055 Social Security beneficiaries in Texas. “Texas families and seniors deserve much better than constant attacks on their health care and social security benefits from Republicans in Washington,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I stand committed to fighting for Medicare and Medicaid as long as I breathe. My Democratic colleagues and I support an agenda that offers policies that improve lives starting with a strong, detailed plan to lower the cost of prescription drugs, tough new enforcement of drug price gouging, allowing Medicare Part D to negotiate lower drug prices and demanding transparency of drug price hikes. Democrats are fighting for the people, while the GOP cravenly puts special interests first.” # # #
07.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson highlighted a new study from the Center for American Progress showing that Republican efforts to undermine existing health care laws protecting Americans have saddled hard-working families in every Congressional district with soaring new costs. These efforts have included legislation to sabotage the health marketplaces, executive actions to cut off key stabilization payments, slashing the enrollment period in half and forcing families into insufficient health insurance plans that don’t cover essential benefits or protect people with pre-existing conditions. Through their push for these policies, Republicans carry responsibility for rising health insurance premiums across America. “At every turn, Republicans have pressed their harmful sabotage campaign to raise Texans’ health costs and reduce their coverage,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is disheartening that the Republican health care agenda has led to attacks on Texans with pre-existing conditions, double-digit premium increases and inadequate, junk coverage plans for families at the same time they hike prescription drug costs for Texans. It is a grave mistake to believe Texans’ health care is safe as long as Republicans control Washington.” After Republicans triggered premium hikes of an average of 37 percent nationally in 2018, GOP health care disruption is now set to hit Texas families with soaring new costs in 2019. The district-by-district report finds that the health care sabotage provisions included in the GOP tax bill and the Trump Administration’s effort to push families into junk health insurance plans is having a stark impact on premiums across the 30th Congressional District of Texas in 2019: · A family of four will see an annual marketplace premium that is $3,410 higher. · A 55-year-old couple will see an annual premium $3,760 higher on average. · An unsubsidized 40-year-old will pay an annual extra $1,080 on average. According to new data released by the Kaiser Family Foundation, Americans have indicated their preference for representatives who support protections for pre-existing conditions. This poll also shows they are attributing the raise in health care costs to Trump and Republicans following their efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act. “Democrats are fighting for the people, I am proud to be part of this effort,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our agenda begins with a strong, detailed plan to lower the skyrocketing cost of prescription drugs and includes proposals to strengthen Medicare, Medicaid and the health care of millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions. This is what I believe is best for District 30 and the country.” # # #
07.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 28th anniversary of the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA): “In the 28 years since we passed the Americans with Disabilities Act, our country has made great strides in making our buildings, roads and other facilities more accessible for all Americans. This is not an accomplishment but one step in our journey to make a more perfect country. The ADA has been a promise to Americans living with disabilities that they have the same right to opportunity and full participation as any other American. This law is more than just making buildings wheelchair accessible. It is about protecting differently-abled Americans from discrimination and ensuring they live lives of dignity. As we observe the anniversary of this paramount law’s passage, I remain committed to defending the ADA and what it represents – our promise to treating all Americans with kindness and respect – from those seeking to undo the progress it has brought.” # # #
07.23.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today secured the passage of H.R. 2345, the National Suicide Hotline Improvement Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill proposes meaningful changes to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Veterans Crisis Line. Co-authoring the bill with Congresswoman Johnson is Congressman Chris Stewart (R-UT). The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 379-1 and received overwhelming, bi-partisan support. It now goes to the U.S. Senate for consideration. “I am pleased by the bi-partisan support this bill received, which proposes meaningful changes to the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Veterans Crisis Line,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This legislation sets out to enact easily-implementable improvements to our nation’s current suicide-prevention infrastructure. Once the provisions in this bill go into effect, we will make more resources available and available at much greater ease, so more Americans in distress can access the resources they need and fewer will feel the only solution is to take their own life.” The bi-partisan legislation tasks the Federal Communications Commission and the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to study the creation of a three-digit dialing code, similar to 9-1-1, as a suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline. Additionally, it directs the agencies to perform a cost and benefit analysis of the hotline’s creation and provide recommendations to improve the overall effectiveness of the current system. “Today’s legislative accomplishment lays the groundwork for real progress to be achieved in saving lives. This bill is about improving our country’s primary suicide-prevention communications system and equipping it to carry out its mission with greater efficiency. I am appreciative to Congressman Stewart for his support during the entire process of introducing the bill and, ultimately, helping it pass today. The success of this legislation is a testament to the work Congress can still successfully undertake to make our country better for everyone,” said Congresswoman Johnson. # # #
07.19.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was selected to serve on a conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. Congresswoman Johnson will join fellow House Democrats on the committee and will take an active role in negotiating portions of this legislation, known as the Farm Bill. “It is an honor and privilege to have been appointed as a conferee on the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This bill is a reflection of our nation’s priorities as it relates to protecting our country’s farmers and defending the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program so the most vulnerable among us – including young children – know we are a generous and kind people. I look forward to working with my House and Senate colleagues on this important legislation.” Congresswoman Johnson, as the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, will have a leading role in negotiating provisions of the bill relating to biomass research and development and carbon capture, two methods to create renewable energy from natural resources. # # #
07.18.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced the Department of Defense is beginning to notify veterans who are eligible to receive a refund on taxes that may have been wrongly collected on their Disability Severance Payments by the IRS. Disability Severance Pay is not taxable as long as it is paid for combat-related injuries or the Veteran is also eligible for disability compensation from the Department of Veterans Affairs. DOD announced it will attempt to notify the more than 130,000 veterans identified as eligible for the refund, but explained the department may not be able to contact a number of potentially eligible veterans. “Veterans who served our nation deserve our gratitude and should not be taxed for suffering an injury in service to our country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased that the Department of Defense is correcting an issue in attempt to fairly treat veterans. The timetable to file for a refund is one year from the date of the DOD letter, and therefore, it’s vital we quickly inform all veterans who are eligible to receive refunds but who may not receive notification. “There is no higher calling then to serve our nation in uniform and we owe it to our veterans to treat them with fairness, decency and dignity. It is my hope that we will fully utilize this policy to return to our veterans what is rightfully theirs,” said Congresswoman Johnson. In order to file for the rebate, eligible veterans who receive the letter from DOD need to complete and mail IRS Form 1040X to the IRS at 333 W. Pershing Street, Stop 6503, P5, Kansas City, MO 64108 with a copy of their letter. Veterans who do not receive a letter are also eligible to file for the refund. Additional information can be found on the Defense Finance and Accounting Service website or on the information paper released by DOD. # # #
07.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 23rd anniversary of the Bosnian Genocide: “Twenty Three years ago today, more than 8,000 innocent men and boys were systematically executed by the Army of Republika Srpska paramilitary forces. This group was also responsible for the ethnic cleansing of non-Serb populations throughout eastern Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Bosnian war. The failure of the international community to react to the actions of Serb military forces during this period was unfortunate and must serve as a constant reminder to ensure nothing like this ever happens again. “As a co-chair on the Congressional Caucus on Bosnia, I worked to lead an effort to adopt House Resolution 310 in the 114th Congress. The resolution honored the thousands of innocent people killed or executed at Srebrenica. Additionally, the resolution classified the policies of aggression and ethnic cleansing by Serb forces in the Bosnian War as genocide.” # # #
07.09.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to President Trump’s nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court: “President Trump’s selection of a candidate who has a record skeptical of a woman’s right to choose and equal access to health care is disappointing but comes as no surprise. While on the federal bench, Judge Kavanaugh has publically disagreed with the monumental decision in Roe v. Wade and the decision regarding the Affordable Care Act. Additionally, Judge Kavanaugh has a long record of siding with corporate interests over individuals and issuing rulings that threaten the stability of Medicare and Medicaid. During his nomination to the D.C. Circuit Court, Judge Kavanaugh enjoyed the full support of the Family Research Council, which has been designated an anti-LGBTQ ‘hate group’ by the Southern Poverty Law Center. I am concerned that – given his extensive record of rulings – Judge Kavanaugh would further endanger the rights of vulnerable Americans, whether they be women in need of health care, seniors in need of health care, families in need of the social safety net, or LGBTQ Americans in need of protections from discrimination. “I have further reservations with Judge Kavanuagh’s nomination by a president who is currently under federal investigation for his actions. Judge Kavanaugh wrote from the bench that presidents should be shielded from investigations or lawsuits during their term, while being part of the team that spent more than four years investigating President Clinton. I am concerned that Judge Kavanagh's history of contradictions would cloud his judgement on issues pertaining to the investigation into the President and make uncertain his likely claims to defend previous court precedents. “Make no mistake, these vital issues are in the balance and may very well be decided by the next individual who takes a seat on the highest court in the land. Too much is at stake to allow an ideologically-motivated candidate serve on the Supreme Court. “I encourage my Senate colleagues to vote against confirming a candidate who has shown he will overturn laws that protect many Americans today.” # # #
07.06.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump announced that he had accepted the resignation of EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt: “As I said when he was appointed, Mr. Pruitt, a man who spent his career opposing EPA’s mission to protect public health and the environment, was unfit to be the Administrator of the EPA. Given the countless ethics issues he generated by his behavior while at EPA, I honestly cannot believe it took this long for him to resign or be fired and I, along with many, many others, called on him to resign. That said, his ethical missteps were matched by the pernicious policies he pursued as EPA Administrator, including most recently his proposed “Secret Science” rule. “Mr. Pruitt's departure is welcome, but that is no cause for letting down our guard against the detrimental environmental policies he espoused, since they appear to have been in concert with the anti-environmental views of this Administration. I and other Members of Congress will continue the fight to allow EPA to carry out the noble mission that the American people have asked of it." # # #
07.05.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today regarding the upcoming nomination of a Justice by President Trump to fill a vacancy on the Supreme Court: “The rulings issued by the Supreme Court last week show the vital significance it plays in shaping our nation’s future. Voting rights, women’s rights, equal rights, LGBTQ rights, privacy rights, and the right to health care all hinge on the makeup of the highest court. And in a state like Texas, where many of these rights have been intentionally targeted, they are terrifyingly vulnerable. Under no circumstances should the Senate confirm President Trump’s nominee should he or she seek to overturn fundamental rights granted in cases such as Roe v. Wade or Brown v. Board of Education. Unless President Trump nominates someone who falls in line with mainstream judicial thought, respects precedent and vows to uphold settled law, I urge my colleagues in the Senate to withhold voting for any of the ideologically motivated candidates on the President’s previously released shortlist. The future of Americans all across the country, and of Texans in particular, depends on it.” # # #
07.03.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today was selected to serve on a conference committee of the House and Senate versions of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. Congresswoman Johnson will be actively involved in negotiating portions of this legislation, which funds the United States military, so it accurately addresses the country’s needs and reflects key priorities. “I am honored to have been appointed as a conferee on the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As the Ranking Member on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have been tasked to reconcile components of the legislation that are of great importance for a strong economy, workforce, and the overall competitiveness of our country. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both the Science Committee and in the Senate on these issues.” In addition to Congresswoman Johnson, seven members of the House Democratic Caucus were also named to the conference committee. # # #
06.29.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today applauded two organizations in the 30th Congressional District, City Year, Inc. and Reading Partners, who received nearly $1.1 million and $450,000 respectively in federal grant funds for public service-oriented programs through AmeriCorps. “There are many wonderful organizations in our district that work with youth and students to help them grow into successful young men and women, and with these additional resources, two of our finest organizations will be able to change more lives for the better,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Imparting the importance of education is vital to the development of our students, especially those from challenging backgrounds or facing great adversity. This funding will bolster school attendance, improve student literacy, and foster the feeling of fulfillment and self-worth for almost 5,000 students in our community. This is wonderful news, and I proudly express my support to City Year, Inc. and Reading Partners for receiving these grants.” In addition to providing funding, these AmeriCorps grants, administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service, will send 117 AmeriCorps members to the district to assist the organizations’ on-going programs and help create bonds with students. The organizations in the district received two of the 12 awards presented to organizations operating in Texas by AmeriCorps. # # #
06.29.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in response to the shooting that occurred Thursday afternoon in Annapolis, Maryland: “It is deeply disheartening that in our nation, once again, innocent lives are lost to senseless gun violence. As someone who has seen this kind of tragedy strike my own community, we must all send our support to the community in Annapolis and commit to doing everything in our power to prevent another shooting from occurring. I remain frustrated that because Republicans in Congress continue to block all of the many meaningful reforms Democrats have proposed, we can do nothing more than send our thoughts and prayers to the victims and their families. I stand firm in my pledge to work with my colleagues to pass legislation that will prevent gun violence and save lives.” # # #
06.28.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congressman John Culberson today attended a presentation of the Hearing Voices of Support Perception Changing Art Installation created by the Schizophrenia and Related Disorders Alliance of America (SARDAA). “Schizophrenia and other psychiatric illnesses affect far too many Americans for the stigma around such ailments to exist,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “My experience as a nurse provided me a unique perspective, and my work in Congress has attempted to address this. Much more needs to be done to give Americans living with neuro-psychiatric illnesses access to the health care treatments and support they need to lead positive, fulfilling lives. I am appreciative to my colleague, Congressman Culberson, and to SARDAA for their commitment to improving the lives of those battling these illnesses.” “It’s an honor to support the work of the Schizophrenia and Related Disorders Alliance of America, and to be a part of ending the stigma that surrounds this disability,” said Congressman Culberson. “There is hope, treatment and a bright future for our neighbors and loved ones living with a psychosis disorder. I’m proud to join my colleague, Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) to raise my voice in support of everyone in this community – the patients, families and caregivers – so that people living with schizophrenia and related disorders will feel more supported and accepted throughout their treatment and recovery.” About SARDAA: Founded in 2008, Schizophrenia and Related Disorders Alliance of America is a national non-profit advocacy organization dedicated to improving the lives of people living with schizophrenia and related neurological brain illnesses through support, education, and collaboration. SARDAA believes that with appropriate medical treatment and support, a person with schizophrenia or a related brain illness has the opportunity to live a life free of discrimination. # # #
06.27.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s divided 5-4 decision in Janus v. AFSCME: "The ruling in Janus v. AFSCME represents yet another ideological decision by the Supreme Court, overturning nearly 40 years of precedent by undermining workers' rights and collective bargaining power. This decision will hurt not only the strength of our unions themselves, but also the ability of American workers to fight for better pay and ultimately better lives. "As a dues-paying member of AFSCME, I see how essential labor unions are for many workers. Unions are the best avenue for public service employees - such as teachers and EMS personnel - to defend their rights in the workplace and ensure that corporations are not permitted to exploit their employees. It is extremely disappointing that this Supreme Court has taken a drastic step to roll back one of the very tools that has helped ensured that we maintain a fair and prosperous economy for all Americans." # # #
06.26.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson responded to a new report which indicates that Republicans’ attempts to undermine key provisions of the Affordable Care Act would be devastating to 6,069,000 women and girls in Texas who live with pre-existing conditions. These new efforts would restore the ability of insurance companies to charge women with pre-existing conditions more for limited coverage plans or deny them health care altogether. “Months after Texas families defeated multiple efforts by Republicans to repeal the ACA without any real plan to replace it, the Trump Administration and Republican officeholders throughout the country are now reviving attacks on Americans with pre-existing conditions by urging the federal courts to declare the protections for people with pre-existing conditions unconstitutional,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This spiteful policy would return our country to the days when insurance companies could discriminate against people struggling with mental health needs, asthma, diabetes and cancer. Under the Republicans’ agenda, a baby or a young girl from Texas could be deprived of affordable health care her entire life, just for being born with a health condition she cannot control.” According to a new report from the Center for American Progress, the Republican efforts to eliminate protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions: Threaten the health care and financial stability of 68 million women across America – a full half of our nation’s women and girls; Force 6,069,000 women and girls in Texas, including 534,000 pregnant women, to pay more for insurance or be denied coverage outright. “From the first day of this administration, Republicans in the White House and Congress have targeted the health care and the rights of women,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As the first nurse elected to Congress, I am proud to stand with Texas women and their families to fight these obscene attacks on their quality, affordable coverage and to ensure that they have access to the health care they need.” # # #
06.25.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson Friday introduced legislation designed to expand the training and tools available to the transportation workforce in order to proactively combat rapid changes in the American economy. The bill, known as the Transportation Workforce Modernization Act, tasks the Department of Transportation to create a new $25 million grant program, which would provide job training for workers displaced by the adoption of autonomous vehicles. “Changes to our economy are inevitable, and we would be committing a grave mistake by ignoring the effects that they will have on workers,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Transportation Modernization Act is an opportunity to combine smart, practical policy with the ingenuity of our best and brightest institutions to develop the coursework needed to bring our workforce into the 21st Century. This legislation is not just an effort to reposition our economy on a large scale but an effort to ensure that American workers aren’t left behind when their livelihoods are threatened.” Among other provisions, it would also direct the Government Accountability Office to study the impact of driverless vehicle adoption on the nation’s workforce, wage and job loss, new job creation, and the resulting changes to the transportation sector. A copy of the bill can be read here. # # #
06.15.2018	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the Texas Hospital Association’s (THA) Texas Hospital Advocacy Tribute Award this week after being honored with the recognition in a ceremony in Washington, DC last month. The award recognizes Congresswoman Johnson for her commitment to good health care policy and support of policy issues of significance to health systems. “I am profoundly honored to have been recognized by the Texas Hospital Association,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our state’s hospitals and health systems are critical to both the health and well-being of Texas residents and to a healthy and thriving economy. As the first registered nurse in Congress, I know, firsthand, how important healthcare professionals and hospitals are to the overall well-being of the country. My legislative commitment has always been to ensure our hospitals remain well positioned to deliver on their mission of providing exceptional care and service to patients.” “Congresswoman Johnson was instrumental in securing Congressional support for the extension of the Medicaid 1115 Transformation Waiver, which is a vital source of supplemental funding for Texas hospitals,” said THA President and CEO Ted Shaw. “Her longstanding commitment to health policy that ensures access to affordable, high quality care not only for the residents of her district but for all Texans sets her apart from many of her Congressional colleagues.” Since 1997, THA’s Hospital Advocacy Tribute Award recognizes state and federal lawmakers who support policy proposals which address problems important to Texas hospitals and their ability to adequately meet the health care needs of all Texans. # # #
06.12.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration announcing a binding legal ruling that bars most victims of domestic abuse and gang violence from receiving asylum: “This latest unilateral decision by the Trump Administration to deny most victims of domestic abuse and gang violence asylum betrays our most deeply held values. It adds to a long list of policies that convey the clear contempt those in the White House have for immigrants and other minorities. We cannot ignore the pleas of women fleeing life-threatening conditions to turn them away at our border. We are a nation of nations, and we need to, once again, honor our shared humanity in order to restore our place as the leader of the free world. “I call on my colleagues across the aisle in Congress to condemn the Administration’s policy and work to overturn his terribly misguided directive.” # # #
06.08.2018	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voiced her opposition to the Trump Administration’s announcement that it will argue in court that the protections in the Affordable Care Act for individuals with pre-existing conditions should be struck down. Approximately 11,579,100 Texans have pre-existing conditions, according to the Center for American Progress. “Once again, the Trump Administration is taking action that does nothing but hurt Americans in need of our help,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “More than 11 million Texans would lose access to health care coverage directly because of this irresponsible action by President Trump and his appointees. As the first registered nurse in Congress, I understand the great progress we have made because of the ACA and will not allow us to return to the time when being a woman was considered a pre-existing condition.” This decision by the Trump administration comes following the, on average, 15 percent spike in premiums on plans purchased through the individual market place, which resulted from the corporate tax break the GOP passed at the expense of middle class Americans. The nonpartisan CBO also reported that another 3 million will be pushed off their coverage altogether. “Republicans have shown through their actions they value the insurance industry’s profits more than lowering the cost of health care coverage for millions of Americans. I call on my colleagues in Congress to work together so we avoid the detrimental consequences this misguided action will certainly cause.” # # #
06.08.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on President Trump’s newly announced policy to separate children from their parents when families are detained at the border: “Once again, we are witnessing the Trump Administration single-out immigrants and minorities, especially those most vulnerable and those in need of our assistance. The Department of Homeland Security’s directive to separate families seeking help at ports of entry is at odds with the American values of tolerance and acceptance. This step, combined with the recent decision of directing refugee shelters to distribute manipulative medical information to women in our country’s care, reinforces my concerns that President Trump continues to take actions that do not fit American norms when it comes to the treatment of immigrant communities. “I am calling on DHS to immediately cease this practice and reunite all families seeking only to be treated with dignity, and I want to reiterate my support for immigrant communities that contribute to our country each day.” Congresista Eddie Bernice Johnson se opone a la decisión de separar familias en la frontera DALLAS, TX -- La Congresista Eddie Bernice Johnson dio a conocer la declaración sobre la política recientemente anunciada por el presidente Trump de separar a los hijos de sus padres cuando las familias se encuentran detenidas en la frontera: “Una vez más, somos testigos de los ataques que se cometen de parte de Trump y su administración con nuestra comunidad inmigrante -- especialmente a los más vulnerables y aquellos que necesitan nuestra ayuda. El Departamento de Seguridad Nacional tiene instrucciones de separar familias que se encuentran en los puertos de entrada buscando ayuda. En desacuerdo con los valores estadounidenses de tolerancia y aceptación. Esta política, combinada con la decisión reciente de dar falsa información médica a mujeres bajo la custodia de nuestro país, refuerza mi preocupación de que el presidente Trump continúe tomando medidas que no se ajustan a las normas estadounidenses en lo que respecta al tratamiento de comunidades de inmigrantes. “Pido al Departamento de Seguridad Nacional que cese de inmediato esta práctica y reúna a todas las familias que solo buscan ser tratadas con respecto y dignidad, y quiero reiterar mi apoyo a las comunidades inmigrantes que contribuyen a nuestro país.”
06.05.2018	Dallas, Texas – Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD) and Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity Chair, Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13), along with Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33), visited Dallas, Texas on Friday, as part of their Pathways Out of Poverty Listening Tour. In Dallas, the Members toured three sites developing innovative solutions to reduce poverty and expand opportunity, including Bonton Farms, Jubilee Community Center, and Promise House. “Poverty is not a problem we can solve overnight, but, like the steps we are taking in Dallas, there is much we can do to significantly reduce poverty,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The work of the Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity represents a political will to enact policies to fight poverty in our communities. I appreciate Whip Hoyer and Congresswoman Barbara Lee’s visit where Congressman Veasey and I were able to highlight some of the hard, meaningful work those of us dedicated to providing a pathway out of poverty engage in every day. I believe we can make a difference and break the cycle of poverty.” “Democrats are committed to lifting Americans out of poverty and expanding opportunity for everyone,” said Whip Hoyer. “That’s why we visited Dallas today to learn more about how communities are breaking the cycle of poverty. It has been deeply disappointing to see Republicans in Washington not only ignore the issue of poverty, but continue to undermine proven anti-poverty programs. Democrats will take what we’ve learned from those on the front lines of fighting poverty here in Dallas and return to Washington to inform our colleagues of what is happening on the ground and how Congress can do more to assist those living in or on the edge of poverty. I thank Reps. Johnson and Veasey for hosting us, as well as Rep. Lee for her leadership as chair of this Task Force.” “In communities across the country – urban, rural, and suburban – families are struggling to make ends meet. But instead of offering families a helping hand, too many of our national policies lock hardworking people out of opportunities for economic stability,” said Congresswoman Lee. “On our tour, we met with innovators focused on addressing the contributors to poverty, like homelessness and food insecurity. At the end of the day, parents shouldn’t be working two or three jobs and still sending their kids to bed hungry. Together with my colleagues, I know that we will use these discussions to inform our policymaking in Congress.” “There is a clear crisis in access to economic resources across Texas, and especially in the Dallas, Fort Worth Area, that needs to be addressed. Today, we heard directly from those affected, and met with local organizations that provide relief through nutrition and education programs, and housing for the homeless. Communities within the DFW Metroplex deserve our continued support and resources to attain a basic level of care – a level of care we all deserve,” said Congressman Veasey. “That is why it is imperative we have a holistic approach to ease economic barriers within our communities, and a common goal to end poverty nationwide. Our efforts for outreach and assistance will continue to lift up North Texans, as part of a national movement to support a healthier economy for the country.” On the tour, the Members of Congress heard directly from community leaders and Americans families on the front lines of the national poverty epidemic. At Bonton Farm, they toured one of the largest urban farms in the country, which is located in a food desert where grocery stores are not easily accessible. In addition to improving access to nutritious foods for low-income families in the community, the farm is also creating jobs and employing local residents. At Jubilee Community Center, Members saw how comprehensive, wraparound services – including childcare, afterschool and summer programs for children and teens, education and job support for parents, and housing for seniors – are benefiting families and giving them the tools to break the cycle of poverty. Finally, at Promise House, a shelter for youth experiencing homelessness, Members saw how early intervention services and providing education and training reduce the risk that these young people become homeless adults. The Pathways Out of Poverty Listening Tour will continue later this month in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Launched in 2013, the Democratic Whip Task Force on Poverty, Income Inequality, and Opportunity works to raise awareness of Members of Congress and the American people about the ongoing crisis of poverty, the positive human and economic impacts of effective poverty alleviation programs, and the need for a comprehensive national effort to eradicate poverty. The Task Force consults with key stakeholders to develop support for strategies to eradicate poverty and build opposition to proposed cuts to anti-poverty programs by the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans. # # #
06.05.2018	Dallas, Texas – Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement after Trustees of the Social Security and Medicare trust funds released a report indicating Medicare will become insolvent by 2026, three years earlier than projected last year: “It is a disappointment to learn Medicare will become insolvent three years earlier than projected last year but not a surprise. Today's Social Security and Medicare Trustees reports should not be used as political cover for radical changes that would put our seniors and current and future retirees at risk. “The 53rd anniversary of President Lyndon Baines Johnson signing Medicare into law will be Wednesday, July 30. As I have said before, I will fight to protect Medicare as long as I breathe, and I will work to find a solution such as the Social Security 2100 Act, of which I am a cosponsor.” The Social Security 2100 Act provides: A tax cut for over 10 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits; A benefit bump beginning in 2018 for current and new beneficiaries ($300 annually for the typical retiree); Protection for low income workers by raising the minimum benefit from below the poverty line to 25% above; and Long term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula. # # #
05.25.2018	Dallas, Texas – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today to mark Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 28: “On Monday, we continue the 47-year history of observing Memorial Day and honoring our country’s servicemen and servicewomen and those who made the ultimate sacrifice. The legacy of our remembrance traces back to the Civil War, when fellow soldiers and family members in the North and South decorated the graves of fallen soldiers with flowers. “As we come together to honor our fallen heroes, we share the grief of those who were left behind. For we are not just the beneficiaries of their bravery but the stewards of their sacrifice. “This year, as a nation, our resolve must be to let their service renew our mission: building a future worthy of their sacrifice. That begins with taking care of those who have defended our country yesterday and defend it today. “Throughout the history of our nation, brave men and women have answered the call to serve and protect our democracy. From the War for Independence to today in Iraq and Afghanistan, I am inspired by the courage, devotion and patriotism of our men and women in uniform. “God bless America!”
05.25.2018	DALLAS, TX – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her annual Youth Crime Prevention Summit at the University of North Texas at Dallas. This year’s summit, featuring the theme “Knowledge is Power” and seven talented and committed panelists, connected more than 120 high school students from across District 30 with prominent community leaders who imparted their wisdom and knowledge to help guide these students through a safe summer and a to better life. “Providing young people with positive role models and important life skills is vital to their growth and development,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Through this summit, students get the opportunity to meet and interact with important figures who can share their own experiences and how they made the right choices to overcome adversity. All students have the potential of a bright future. This youth summit helps them see that potential in themselves.” Panelists and Speakers at the summit: · Bob Mung, President of the University of North Texas at Dallas · Joli Robinson, Dallas Police Department · Ray Schufford, Dallas Fire-Rescue · The Honorable Dominique Collins, Dallas County Criminal Court #4 · Derrick LeBlanc, United States Secret Service · Laura Bruton, North Texas Job Corps · Jeremy Spencer, United States Army Corp of Engineers · Cory Proctor, former Dallas Cowboy The Youth Crime Prevention Summit is a component of Congresswoman Johnson’s efforts to connect with the youth and provide them with opportunities to better their education and open their horizons to new professions. She also hosts the Math and Science Lecture Series and the Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue each year. Photos from the event can be viewed here.
05.01.2018	DALLAS, TX – On Saturday, April 28, 2018, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her annual conference, A World of Women for World Peace, at UNT Dallas College of Law, which was attended by over 100 guests committed to peace, including local leaders on the forefront of the movement in education, conflict resolution, and economic freedom as a means to security. The conference is held annually to bring a greater visibility to women who are victims of war and aggression and women who promote peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building in their communities. “I firmly believe that the burden of peacemaking and peace-building cannot be left to one institution, gender, or political party,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It must be a shared responsibility that encompasses all, regardless of race, class, gender or religion. Through this initiative, I have worked to bring attention to those who are revolutionizing the peace movement. Whether meeting with international women’s delegations or hosting events in Dallas or on Capitol Hill, I hope to bring peaceful conflict resolution to the center of our dialogue on foreign policy.” This year’s conference addressed expressions of peace by highlighting the influences of art and global social responsibility. By tackling these issues, we can work to foster new opportunities that benefit women and their impact on societies around the world. Pictures from the conference can be viewed here. # # #
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after Rear Adm. Ronny Jackson withdrew his name to be considered for the position as Secretary of Veterans Affairs: “As a lifelong supporter of our veterans and a former Chief Psychiatric Nurse at the Dallas Veterans Administration Hospital, I know that we have an obligation to provide the best care for our service members,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “That need can only be met by a leader who understands the needs of veterans and is willing to fight for the rights of veterans and their families. “Our veterans provide an immeasurable service to our nation, and deserve the respect of all Americans for the work that they do. Their brave contribution to peace at home and all around the world makes us safer and advances American ideals. There are nearly 20 million veterans in the United States, so it should be a privilege to assist and not abandon them with lackluster leadership. Any discussion about privatizing the VA, expanding Choice, or limiting the care a veteran can receive at the VA needs to be discarded right now. “Veterans also deserve fair employment, access to quality healthcare and affordable housing. Therefore, I am urging President Trump to nominate a qualified candidate who understands the needs of veterans, wants to help veterans navigate the transition into civilian life and fight for their quality care and services.” # # #
04.25.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after the death of a Dallas Police Department Officer: “It is with a heavy heart that I send my condolences to the family of Officer Rogelio Santander and the Dallas Police Department. Officer Santander made the ultimate sacrifice protecting the people of Dallas from a senseless act of violence. We are indebted to Officer Santander for his service. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of Officer Crystal Almeida and Scott Painter, the two others wounded during yesterday’s unwarranted shooting. I ask everyone to join me in offering prayers and well-wishes to Officer Almeida, who is still fighting for her life, and Mr. Painter in hopes they experience a full recovery.” # # #
04.24.2018	DALLAS , TX - On Friday, April 20, 2018, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that Victoria Taylor of the Cambridge School of Dallas, was selected as the grand prize winner of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for the 30th Congressional District of Texas: Victoria’s winning piece, entitled “Out of the Blue”, was highlighted by the competition judges for its intelligent use of both light and dark color, which underscored the artwork’s sense of peace and solitude. Victoria was honored to be selected as the grand prize winner and said, “I’m excited to see my work on display all the way in Washington, D.C.!” The other notable winners of the night – Cree Agent, a sophomore at Bishop Dunne Catholic School, won the second prize, while Natalie Carvajal, sophomore at Booker T. Washington High School, finished third in this year’s competition. Congresswoman Johnson was delighted at the diverse range of mediums students used to express their creative energies. She thanked all the students, parents, and teachers for their earnest support of the arts as a means of discipline and self-expression. “I am amazed each year by the students’ depth and the variety of mediums used to show their art expression,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The artwork we are surrounded by today, is a small testament to the beautiful creativity we must nurture in our students every day. We should continue supporting creativity not just in schools but at home as well.” This year’s Congressional Art Competition reception was held at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center. Over 95 art pieces were submitted from more than a dozen schools within the 30th Congressional District. Submissions were critiqued by a panel of judges from the arts community in North Texas. The annual Congressional Art Competition offers the opportunity for one high school student from each Congressional district to have his or her artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for the following year. Victoria will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, DC to be recognized along with other high school winners residing in Congressional districts across the country. To view pictures from the event, click here. # # #
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following after reviewing the American Lung Association’s 2018 “State of the Air” report: “The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has a duty to protect the public health of all Americans. It is disturbing to review this report compiled by the American Lung Association that makes clear the detrimental impact of air pollution on our population,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Recently, President Trump issued an executive order that softens the requirements for businesses to comply with air quality standards and limits the EPA’s role in holding states accountable for failure to meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. It is inhumane to disregard the health of millions of people. And, this action hurts people of color the most because they are far more likely to be exposed to poor air quality environments. “I cannot stand by and watch as EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt and President Trump attack scientific research and ignore public health concerns. They have chosen to disregard peer reviewed, independent science in order to promote their deregulatory agenda. They are putting the wishes of polluting industries before the health of the American people. I have taken action in my district by requesting a clean monitor for Joppa from the EPA, as the neighborhood contains cement batching plants that spew dust and other chemicals into the air. I will also continue to defend the Clean Air Act. It must remain in place and be fully enforced to protect all Americans from the dangers of air pollution.” # # #
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush who passed away at her home in Houston, Texas on April 17, 2018: “Today, we mourn a great Texan, an admirable first lady and a remarkable woman. Barbara Bush’s passing is truly a great loss for myself, Texans and all Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “My sincerest condolences are with the Bush family, as I have known them for almost half of my life. I always admired Mrs. Bush’s charisma, her true patriotism, and the leadership she displayed in advocating for stronger literacy programs. Mrs. Bush had a lifelong commitment to the many charitable causes she held dear. Her staunch civil rights’ activism and fierce advocacy of women’s rights policies during her husband’s administration say a great deal about her character and the legacy she leaves behind. “Mrs. Bush took pride in her family and taught them to love and serve others. I hope her family can take solace knowing she is in a better place watching over them. My prayers are with the entire Bush family during this difficult time.” # # #
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after recent U.S. military airstrikes in Syria and signing letter urging President Trump to seek authorization from Congress before further use of military force: “Creating more destruction, chaos, misery, and death in Syria will not solve the humanitarian crisis there, and it will not hold to account Bashar al-Assad or any other perpetrators of war crimes in that country’s ongoing civil war,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These airstrikes against the Assad regime are unconstitutional and illegal, resulting in continuous civilian harm. We have seen the Trump Administration perform military strikes in Syria, but these strikes do not yield a solution to end the war. The United States should take a strong stance for genuine diplomacy that can resolve this conflict and prevent further atrocities against civilians. That is why last week, I signed a congressional letter requesting that the president come to Congress to ask for an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). Congress has sole constitutional authority to debate this matter and vote on this illegal escalation in Syria. If we plan to alleviate the human suffering in Syria then the United States should create a comprehensive strategy involving our international allies.” # # #
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after receiving the Humane Advocate Award from the Humane Society: “I am very grateful to receive the Humane Advocate Award from the Humane Society,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Since arriving to Congress I have been an advocate for animals and have fought to protect endangered and exotic animals to combatting horse slaughter and inhumane factory farming practices. We must continue to recognize our responsibility in protecting endangered species and fight for continuous animal welfare funding.” Most recently, Congresswoman Johnson received a 100 percent on a legislative scorecard by the Humane Society for her support in Congress on numerous measures. # # #
04.12.2018	New Report Shows GOP Amendment Would Force Dire Cuts to Pillars of Seniors’ Retirement Security WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after voting no on a Republican Balanced Budget constitutional amendment designed to force deep cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security: “The GOP tax scam mortgaged the future of our seniors and our families in order to give even more money to Wall Street, Pharmaceutical companies, big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Now after adding trillions in higher deficits, Republicans want to amend our Constitution to force America’s seniors to give up the pillars of their retirement security to pay for the GOP’s giveaways to the wealthiest. I’m not going along with this sham so Republicans can destroy Medicare and Social Security.” Earlier this week, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office found that the giveaways of the GOP tax scam, overwhelmingly going to big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent, are exploding the deficit by even more than originally projected; now by nearly $2 trillion in higher deficits. Now, a new report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities finds that, if revenues are not raised to help reach balance, the GOP Balanced Budget Amendment would require deep cuts in key programs, such as Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid. The report finds that, if the cuts mandated by this flawed GOP BBA are spread proportionately, tens of millions of seniors, children, working families, and veterans would be impacted: Social Security would be cut by $325 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $2.6 trillion through 2028; Medicare would be cut by $200 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $1.7 trillion through 2028; Medicaid, CHIP, and ACA subsidies would be cut by $150 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $1.2 trillion through 2028; and Veterans' disability compensation and other benefits would be cut by $30 billion in 2025 alone, and by a total of $250 billion through 2028. In preparing this report, the CBPP assumes that the balanced budget requirement would go into effect in 2025. It also assumes that, in order to hit the balanced budget target in 2025, Congress would start cutting programs in 2020. As AARP wrote in urging Members of Congress to oppose the amendment, “A balanced budget amendment would likely harm Social Security and Medicare, subjecting both programs to potentially deep cuts without regard to the impact on the health and financial security of individuals… Individuals who have contributed their entire working lives to earn a predictable benefit during their retirement would find that their retirement income and health care out of pocket costs would vary significantly year-to-year, making planning difficult and peace of mind impossible… AARP opposes the adoption of a balanced budget amendment that puts Social Security and Medicare at risk.” “I’m a strong believer in real fiscal responsibility, not this cynical gimmick that is a pretext for GOP cuts to Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “We need to keep the promises we made to our seniors and our veterans, create more good-paying jobs, and reduce deficits in a responsible and sustainable manner.” The amendment failed to reach the two-thirds majority threshold required to advance an Amendment to the Constitution. ###
04.04.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: “More than 50 years after Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. gave his life to see an end to the injustices of racial segregation across America, we continue to celebrate his life and lasting legacy. Countless Americans have benefitted from the profound impact of Dr. King’s life work and sacrifice. He is a shining example of love and tolerance for all mankind, regardless of race, religion, or background. His assassination spurred a wave of peaceful protests, inspiring individuals all over the world to defend their rights and values. “People of all races lean on his non-violent teachings to empower them through their own struggles for freedom and equality. Human unity was the core of Dr. King’s message, a call for peace and peaceful cooperation that echoes into the civil rights movements of modern America. The unity that Dr. King taught is an ideal to strive for in our everyday lives as we work to lift or communities towards the light of peace, love, and prosperity. “It’s a fight between justice and injustice. Our battle is as strong today as it was 50 years ago. Until we all work together, we will not achieve the dream. Working with different ideologies, races, and socioeconomic backgrounds to promote true equality in our society requires the kind of collaboration that Dr. King worked and strived for until his very last breath. The profound diversity of our nation requires a cohesive union willing to protect and provide the justice for all we are innately entitled to as human beings.” # # #
04.03.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt announced the agency will roll back Obama-era regulations to improve gas economy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from certain motor vehicles: “Reversing the important emissions standards against the advice of industry experts has no basis in reality,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Mr. Pruitt is choosing to ignore the positive impacts that these standards have by reducing air pollution and saving Americans billions of dollars at the pump. Pollution creates not only an environmental crisis, but also a health crisis for seniors, children, and others who are vulnerable to pollutants. 25 million Americans – including more than 6 million children – suffer from asthma. We should not be rolling back the very safeguards that protect them. “Since these regulations were put in place, Texans have realized $3 billion in savings through stronger fuel economy and global warming emissions standards. Our state can also expect to gain over 24,000 new jobs if these standards remain in place. The clean car standards are achievable and working, and automakers are on track to meet them at a lower cost than originally anticipated. That is why I am co-sponsoring H.R. 5226, the Clean and Efficient Cars Act of 2018, which supports the efforts between agencies, auto manufacturers, labor and environmental groups to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase fuel efficiency. No one supports pumping more pollution in our air, and no one wants to spend more money on gasoline.” The Obama administration approved the latest clean car standards in 2012, with the support of automakers. In January 2017, the EPA concluded that these standards are working, achievable, and should not be rolled back. Yet, without any change in the facts, Mr. Pruitt is reversing that decision, ignoring the thousands of pages of research and analysis that support keeping the standards in place. # # #
03.26.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement discussing mental health services and protections for veterans that were reflected in the Fiscal Year 2018 spending legislation signed by President Trump on Friday, March 23, 2018: Last week, Congress passed a funding that bill that increased funding services and care for veterans across the country, including Dallas. The following are a few major policies that Congresswoman Johnson proudly supported and is hopeful that it will positively impact veterans and their families: $295 million for Veterans Employment and Training; $8.4 billion provided for VA mental health services and programs; $10 million provided for the Veterans Crisis Line; $22 million provided for the National Centers for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder “The recent spending bill signed into law provides an equal opportunity for mental health screenings and health services for those in our veteran community,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Prior to serving in Congress, I worked as a registered nurse at the VA hospital in Dallas, so I recognize the critical importance of providing adequate mental and behavioral health care for veterans. These men and women have endured tremendous stress and have sacrificed so much in the line of duty. Our veterans deserve only the best care that our nation can offer.” If you would like to participate and learn more about the mental health resources available to veterans and their family members, join us for a day-long event highlighting mental health recovery for Veterans and their families on Thursday, March 29, 2018. This collaborative event sponsored by UTD's Center for Brain Health, Dallas VAMC, Jansen Pharmaceuticals and Metrocare will feature educational opportunities, practical skill-building and information about resources relevant to the needs of Veterans and their families. For more information, click here. # # #
03.23.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the passage of the Fiscal Year 2018 spending legislation, which was signed into law this afternoon: “This bill is not perfect, but it is the product of compromise,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We should take the time to recognize some of the major wins for all Americans that will benefit families, seniors, and veterans.” Among these key programs, Congresswoman Johnson strongly supports the following: The removal of the prohibition to conduct research for gun violence through the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); A provision lowering the share of Medicare Part D coverage by pharmaceutical companies was rejected, meaning seniors will not be subjected to higher healthcare premiums or cost-sharing; The National Institutes of Health (NIH) received a $3 billion increase in funding for medical research; Capital Investment Grants (CIG) increased funds by $232 million, giving the grants a total of$2.64 billion. CIG funding is vital for projects currently underway by the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). With these grants, DART can focus its efforts on constructing the D2 Alignment through downtown and expand platforms at 28 stations along the Red and Blue Lines. The bill also provides a $7 billion increase for the Department of Veterans Affairs. This measure helps combat suicide by providing additional funding for the Veterans Crisis Line and the National Centers of Posttraumatic Stress Disorders. “As the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, I am pleased that over $2.5 billion of funding is provided for Homeless Assistance Grants, an increase of $130 million from 2017. These grants provide much-needed funding for states, localities, and non-profits to address the crisis of homelessness in communities across the country.” “I am very disappointed that Congress has still not passed protections for DREAMers. DREAMers belong in our country and deserve legislative protections through a permanent solution. I will continue to fight for those fair policies that protect all Americans.” ###
03.23.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement celebrating Pakistan Day 2018: “Pakistani Americans embody the spirit of our country because they have brought the beauty of their culture with them and by sharing it with us, have enhanced the American identity. It is my pleasure to join all Pakistani Americans in celebrating Pakistan Day 2018. “On this day in 1956, Pakistan declared itself a people’s republic and built the principles of its government on the foundation of democracy. I am proud of the partnership that has existed between our two countries and am hopeful it will grow and continue to benefit both Americans and Pakistanis alike. “Our great nation is made better each day by the contributions of Pakistani Americans. Of these many contributions, I am most proud of the hand of friendship that the Pakistani community in the Dallas area has extended to me. Pakistani Americans have added to the quality of life, the prosperity, the diversity, and the dignity of our country. “I am delighted to wish all Pakistani Americans a very happy Pakistan Day.” # # #
03.23.2018	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with Captain Barrington Irving, Student Leaders, and Student Ambassador Traelon Rodger DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 15th Annual Math and Science Lecture Series installment in conjunction with the University of Texas at Dallas at the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center in Dallas, Texas. The lecture series was created in an effort to expose high school students to the dynamic opportunities STEM education and careers can offer through diverse and accomplished guest speakers in math and science disciplines. “Our global standing depends now more than ever, on our capacity to educate and train the next generation of scientists, innovators, and thought leaders. Students who are not exposed to these technologies will enter the workforce at a significant disadvantage. STEM employment is growing rapidly in Texas and so, too, is the demand for a workforce equipped with STEM skills,” said Congresswoman Johnson. This year, the lecture series featured keynote speaker Captain Barrington Irving, who at age 23 became the youngest pilot to fly solo around the world in a single engine plane. Captain Irving’s achievements in the field of aviation continue to inspire scores of students across Texas. A special thank you to all of our program participants: General Manager Noriyuki Kajita of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America – Aircraft Product Support; Spokesperson Scott Scobel of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America – Aircraft Product Support; Captain Barrington Irving, Dream & Soar; Dr. George Fair, School of interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Texas – Dallas The lecture had a later start time due to Congresswoman Johnson respecting student rights to collective demonstration by participating in a nationwide “March for Our Lives” high school walk out. Congresswoman Johnson supports the work of student activists and leaders, pledging to continue to fight for common sense gun control legislation. # # #
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congressman Earl Blumenauer released the following statement in recognition of World Water Day, which was designated by the United Nations General Assembly to highlight the importance of water. There are more than 2 billion people in the world who do not have access to safe drinking water in their homes, which ultimately impacts their health, education, and livelihoods: Today, Congresswoman Johnson was joined by Congressman Blumenauer (D-OR) in introducing a House Resolution advocating for the importance of water conservation efforts and research that will allow us to improve access to clean water, combat water-borne illnesses, and reduce poverty around the world. “Over many decades, the United States has taken great efforts to protect our water supply. However, this precious resource is often times overlooked and it most certainly should not be taken for granted. UNICEF is correct: water is not a privilege,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We should continue to demand solutions from our leaders that are aimed at combating issues with our water supply and will improve access to clean water. Our children deserve access to safe environments and access to clean water creates the basis for that foundation.” “Access to safe drinking water is the foundation for a healthy community and environment, yet hundreds of millions of people across the globe still lack this basic need,” said Congressman Blumenauer. “This World Water Day, Congress should recommit to do better on water and make water scarcity a thing of the past.” More information on World Water Day, click here. # # #
03.16.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the passing of Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY), the Ranking Member of the Rules Committee: “I am saddened to hear of the passing of our colleague Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. “For more than twenty years, I've been proud to serve alongside her in the House of Representatives. She was a respected Member of Congress who represented her constituents with passion and dedication. We, in Congress, will miss her insight and institutional knowledge. I will always cherish our mutual respect for each other and special friendship. “My thoughts and prayers are with her family.” # # #
03.05.2018	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to New York Times and Washington Post reports that political appointees within the Trump Administration are seeking to undermine the role of U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin: “As a non-practicing nurse who served 15 years at the Dallas Veterans Hospital and now a Senior Member of Congress representing one of the nation’s largest VA hospitals, I oppose any effort to privatize the VA. Millions of veterans rely on VA healthcare services and any efforts to privatize these services solely for private gain would be an egregious move that a majority of veterans outright oppose. We need to work on improving existing care and services, rather than promoting wealth for outside influencers. The lives of our veterans depend on our ability to preserve the integrity of the VA system and mission.” # # #
03.01.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of Women’s History Month: “During Women’s History Month we honor the brave women whose shoulders we continue to stand upon today. We celebrate this legacy of resilience as they demonstrate what it looks like to be persistent in overcoming barriers presented across multiple generations. Women have been at the forefront of movements that have shaped the American identity into what is today. And we will continue to forge a brighter future through supporting STEM education for young girls and women, securing equal pay, providing accessible healthcare, and the right to a safe educational environment; which are all key elements needed to bring this vision of equality to every citizen. “This month we recognize every organizer and advocate who committed themselves to a cause working to achieve equality in every avenue of life. America is a land of opportunity; we must never forget our commitment to providing a better legacy for those to come than what was left to us. The heights of the achievements our daughters and granddaughters reach will be the testament of the work we accomplish in our lifetimes. Therefore, I will continue to make legislative decisions with the best interests of young girls and women in mind.” # # #
03.01.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after receiving a 100 percent on a legislative scorecard by the Humane Society after supporting numerous measures to protect animals ranging from domestic violence to trophy hunting on public lands: “I am honored to receive an outstanding score of 100 from the Humane Society for working on legislation that protects the rights of animals,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is important that we not overlook the safety and protections for endangered species nor lessen safeguards in place that provide animal welfare funding. Additionally, I believe there are better and alternative ways to test products rather than using live animals. “I recently supported H.R. 113, the Safeguard American Food Exports Act of 2017 that will ban horse slaughter in the United States and end the export of American horses for human consumption in foreign countries. While in Congress I will continue to fight for animal’s protections inside resident homes, shelters, public lands and more.” To view this year’s scorecard, please visit here. # # #
02.28.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the CEO of Dick’s Sporting Goods announced today that the retail chain will no longer sell assault-style weapons or high capacity magazines across its stores and limit the sale of firearms to adults 21 years of age and older in direct response to the high school shooting in Parkland, FL: “I commend the CEO of Dick’s Sporting Goods for his efforts to take on gun violence that plagues our nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “He has chosen life, safety, and the well-being of our children and neighbors inside schools, playgrounds, and places of worship over corporate profits. I am encouraged by this bold move from one of the nation’s largest sports retailers to make progressive changes to its policies in direct response to the Parkland shooting. Dick’s Sporting Goods has demonstrated incredible leadership in its decision and I hope that other retailers will also follow suit in making sensible changes that restrict access to assault weapons and high capacity magazines.” “While we are waiting for others in Congress to take meaningful action to prevent gun violence, I have joined many of my Democratic colleagues by urging Congressional leadership to bring the Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act of 2017 to a vote. This bill closes gun sale loopholes and institutes strong, enforceable background checks. This is a step that will make our communities safer and prevent more Americans, like the innocent children in Parkland, from losing their lives to senseless acts of gun violence.” # # #
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the high school shooting in Parkland, FL, which claimed the lives of more than 15 people: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families and those who lost their loved ones to yet another senseless act of gun violence, although I recognize that prayers without action means nothing to the victims and their families,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We have not been largely successful in implementing meaningful reforms to our gun laws in over 20 years since the Brady Law was enacted. I do not believe that one single gun law can prevent every shooting. However, there are solutions that can reduce gun violence and save lives – for instance, addressing mental illness. We need to discuss the types of mental health services provided for those who pose a threat. In many prior incidents, it has been noted that the shooters have a mental illness and have made a public cry for help. “Since I believe gun control policies alone will not stop mass violence, I have remained a strong supporter of mental health reform. We have learned that many individuals who committed mass violence either lacked or sought mental health treatment, but were unable to get the treatment they needed. My former colleague Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA) and I were successful in passing legislation that implemented these measures in the 21st Century Cures Act, so I will remain a firm advocate in ensuring that those with mental illnesses have the care they need.” # # #
02.12.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump released his budget plan that provides devastating cuts to domestic health, education and economic initiatives for working and middle class families: “Unfortunately the president’s budget proposal comes as no surprise with no promise to protect and care for all American people. I am not shocked because a lot of his rhetoric from his most recent State of the Union address is backed here in his latest proposal,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This budget proposal fails the American people by cutting over $200 billion to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) which provides food to more than 44 million. Additionally, he continues to target those with pre-existing conditions, seniors in nursing homes, children with disabilities and low-income families by cutting Medicaid by $1.4 trillion over ten years. I will continue to fight for these individuals and families who are constantly under attack by this Administration and their policies.” As the most senior Texas member on the U.S. House Committee of Transportation and Infrastructure, “I believe the president’s FY19 budget falls short in its promises to deliver real infrastructure investment across the country, particularly in Dallas where demands on our public transit are rapidly growing,” said Congresswoman Johnson. President Trump’s budget does the following in terms of infrastructure: Limits Capital Investment Grant (CIG) Program Funding – the FY19 budget proposes limiting funding under the Capital Investment Grant (CIG) program to projects with existing full funding grant agreements only. It is important for Congress to fully fund the CIG program to support projects like the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) D2 Subway. Elimination of the TIGER Discretionary Grant Program – The TIGER Discretionary Grant program is one of the most popular yet underfunded grant programs offered for transportation projects through the U.S. Department of Transportation. Many local transit agencies rely on this funding to develop projects of regional and national significance. DART has historically relied on TIGER funding to deliver local transit options to thirteen cities in North Texas. Today, DART is seeking TIGER dollars to upgrade its Internet Protocol network infrastructure in order to meet the growing demands for public transit in Dallas. In the absence of TIGER funding, countless municipalities and transit agencies such as DART will have to scramble to find alternative sources of funding for local projects. Air Traffic Organization (ATO) Privatization – President Trump is trying to revive a failed effort to shift the air traffic control function of the Federal Aviation Administration to a non-governmental entity. The United States maintains the safest and most complex airspace in the world. Radical changes to the current ATO structure could threaten the safety, efficiency, and affordability of our airways. The North Texas region is home to the fourth busiest airport in the world by aircraft movements, the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. It is critically important, not only to North Texas but the entire country, that we take a deliberate approach when considering massive structural changes to how we manage air traffic in the United States. # # #
02.12.2018	DALLAS, TX – This morning, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her Annual State of the District Prayer Breakfast at the Dallas Music Hall at Fair Park. This year’s keynote address was given by Senior Pastor Bryan L. Carter of the Concord Church: “I began the prayer breakfast over 20 years ago with the hopes of uniting our faith leaders in the community for prayer and reflection,” said Congresswoman Johnson during her remarks at the gathering. “As our event continues to grow, it provides a way to intercede and speak prosperity over the Dallas community and our nation. May our prayers today be heard and answered with guidance so that we can solve the problems facing our community and nation.” The prayer breakfast remains a beautiful celebration of many faiths and religions that represents the true unity between our communities. Congresswoman Johnson also expressed that spiritual principles and moral values transcend the physical capacities and the boundaries of our land, impressing that the fight for peace and justice requires a global prayer perspective. During the message the keynote speaker, Senior Pastor Bryan L. Carter of Concord Church said, “the things that are meant to take you down can build you up.” After serving 13 years as head of Concord Church, Pastor Carter remains committed to building stronger Dallas communities through education and economic development. During his message he continued to stress how important it is that we plant seeds. “We need to plant faith, family, economic, and mentoring seeds during these challenging times.” The breakfast was attended by more than 100 leaders from the North Texas faith community. The leaders attended the event advocating for peaceful collaboration for the growth and prosperity of a spiritually diverse Texas citizenry. Leaders present were from the Christian, Jewish, Muslim, and non-denominational faith communities. And all the faith leaders spoke candidly about opportunities to unite our community in the wake of developing challenges. Pictures from the event can be viewed here. # # #
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Gene Green (TX-29), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Henry Cuellar (TX-28), Al Green (TX-9), Filemon Vela (TX-34), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15) issued the following statement regarding their support of the continuing resolution that contains a bipartisan budget agreement, funds the government through March 23 and provides relief for Hurricane Harvey victims: “Communities in our districts and along the Texas Gulf Coast have waited for more than five months for Congress to pass a comprehensive relief bill aimed at funding recovery efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey. Today’s legislation will deliver $89 billion in hurricane relief for Texas and other states impacted by last year’s major disasters, allowing our communities to continue rebuilding schools, businesses, and homes that suffered severe damage last August. This disaster relief package additionally includes $15 billion for flood control projects through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Bipartisan Budget Act will very likely be the most significant bipartisan legislation to pass Congress this year. The health and well-being of families and children we represent are among our top priorities. By extending and increasing funding for critical programs like community health centers for the next two years, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for the next 10 years, and Medicaid provisions that allow our rural hospitals to continue to provide critical access to healthcare, we can give our constituents certainty that they have access to reliable and affordable healthcare – no matter their socioeconomic status. Families should never have to receive letters from the state informing them that they might lose their healthcare coverage. Additionally, the funding for our military in The Bipartisan Budget Act will help address critical shortfalls in US Navy readiness, such as the tragic USS John S. McCain and USS Fitzgerald collisions, the latter of which resulted in the death of Gunner’s Mate 2nd Class Noe Hernandez, a South Texas native. The funding portion of the Bipartisan Budget Act excludes border wall funding, signifying a victory for Texans along the US-Mexico border. We will continue to push so that landowners along the southern border can keep their property safe from seizure by the federal government. Our views align with those of a majority of Americans who favor protections for DREAMers and we will not give up until the Republican majority opens debate on a permanent fix for DACA recipients. It is our hope that we can address immigration legislation in a fair, bipartisan manner and give certainty to our DREAMers.” ###
02.02.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) released the following statement in response to the issuance of a federal permit by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) to construct the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir in Fannin County, Texas: “This is extremely good news for North Texas and the future of water delivery in the region,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30). “I am pleased to have joined my colleagues in the Texas Delegation in seeing this through. The population in North Texas is expected to grow precipitously and completion of the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir project will ensure that we can meet our water needs well into the foreseeable future. I would like to congratulate and thank everyone involved for this bipartisan effort.” For nearly a decade, the North Texas Municipal Water District (NTMWD) has been seeking a permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to complete the Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir project in Fannin County, Texas. The Lower Bois d’Arc Creek Reservoir project seeks to deliver up to 108 million gallons of water per day and more than 367,000 acre-feet of water storage to North Texas. The project includes five major components: reservoir dam and intake; raw water pipeline; water treatment plant; roadway improvements and bridge; and environmental mitigation. Construction is scheduled for early 2018, with completion by 2022. Congresswoman Johnson worked cooperatively with North Texas Representatives Sam Johnson (TX-03), Pete Sessions (TX-32), and John Ratcliffe (TX-04) to expedite the issuance of the permit by not only supporting legislation in the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WIIN) Act enacted in 2016, but also by personally meeting with USACE and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) officials in Dallas and Washington, DC. Once completed, this project will be the first new reservoir constructed in Texas in nearly three decades. “Water is our most precious resource,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This project will deliver the clean and reliable water that is so desperately needed in North Texas. What we have achieved today is a true testament to all that we can accomplish when we come together in a bipartisan fashion to do what is best for the people of Texas.” # # #
01.31.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Johnson released the following responses to President Trump’s State of the Union address: On Transportation/Infrastructure: “Almost an entire year has passed since President Trump first addressed a joint session of Congress. Yet, we are no closer now than we were then to seeing a concrete plan on how the Administration plans to shore up our nation’s infrastructure. The $1.5 trillion infrastructure package that President Trump alluded to tonight sounds great on its face. However, the devil is always in the details and there is still no substitute for direct federal spending when it comes to infrastructure, especially when we are talking about helping our rural areas. In its last report, the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) estimates that there is a current infrastructure gap of $1.5 trillion needed by 2025. The U.S. Department of Transportation also estimates that more than $800 billion is needed today just to bring our existing roads and bridges to a state of good repair. This is serious and our country is exposed to greater risk every single day that we do not act. The U.S. economy relies heavily on a vast network of infrastructure to move people, goods, and services. Without a robust transportation network, we are putting our nation’s economy and its people at risk. The time to act is now. This Administration owes it to the American people to deliver on his campaign promises to rebuild our crumbling infrastructure.” On the Economy: “Now more than ever, we need to be protecting our most vulnerable – particularly communities of color. Our economy should be working for every American, not just a select few. Yet President Trump’s only major legislative accomplishment during the first session of Congress was passage of a tax bill that overwhelmingly benefits the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations. This bill will end up costing the American people at least $1.5 trillion over the next decade, a heavy burden that future generations will be forced to bear for decades to come.” On Immigration: “I am deeply disappointed in the president’s tone towards immigrants and the disregard to how they contribute to our nation. President Trump seems to forget that this country’s history has been about tearing down walls, not building them up. The fate of 1.8 million young people should not be considered a bargaining chip for the president to use so that he can permanently reconfigure our legal immigration system by eliminating the diversity lottery and family reunification. President Trump should not use the hopes and dreams of thousands of DACA recipients within my district as a tool to erect an expensive wall. For too long, these young people have only known the United States as their home. Congress must swiftly pass a bill to protect these individuals without damaging our reputation abroad as a place where dreams of a better life can come true.” On Healthcare: “President Trump signed the Republican Tax bill into law on December 22, 2017. His tax bill is just the beginning of the Republicans plan to dismantle the Affordable Care Act. The individual health care mandate, which is the primary enforcement mechanism under the ACA for individuals, will be repealed beginning in 2019. As a direct result of this repeal, more than 10 million Americans can reasonably expect to experience increased premiums. Ultimately, this will result in fewer Americans having health care coverage for their families. Within the next year alone, Medicare will be cut by $25 billion – effectively placing the burden of these tax cuts on the backs of our senior citizens. Sadly, Republicans in Congress and President Trump have demonstrated once again that they are willing to put the interests of a select few [the wealthy] ahead of the greater good of the American people. This bill will have a devastating impact on future generations for decades to come. We must continue to find a way to work with Republicans in a bipartisan manner to come up with real policy solutions to repair the Affordable Care Act and ensure all Americans have access to affordable and effective healthcare.” # # #
01.29.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that Steven J. Demetriou, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Jacobs Engineering Group, will be her guest tomorrow evening at President Trump’s State of the Union address: “It is my pleasure to invite Steven Demetriou, CEO of Jacobs Engineering Group, a Dallas-based company, as my guest for tomorrow’s State of the Union,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Jacobs is one of the world’s largest and most diverse providers of full-spectrum technical, professional and construction services for industrial, commercial and government organizations globally. The company employs 50,000 people and operates in more than 30 countries around the world.” In 2010, Jacobs Engineering received a $30 million contract to provide construction management services for the Architect of the Capitol, the federal agency responsible for the maintenance, operation, development and preservation of the United States Capitol Complex in Washington, D.C. Jacobs Engineering also provides science, engineering, and technical support for flagship NASA programs including the Space Launch System, International Space Station, and numerous other space, science, and technology development projects. # # #
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after Members of the United States House of Representatives passed the 4th Continuing Resolution led by House Republicans, to keep the federal government funded through February 16th: “Once again, I am disappointed that Republicans have chosen to kick the can down the road. This is beyond embarrassing that the Republican-controlled Congress cannot perform the one job that the American people have elected them to do,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I voted ‘no’ in passing this resolution because it is irresponsible for this chamber to continually choose to fund the federal government on a month-to-month basis. Despite maintaining a super majority, the GOP has failed to provide a long-term budget that will provide the certainty and funding we need to provide vital social services. “Families are impacted by our decisions as we push aside high priority and time sensitive issues that need immediate funding for results – the opioid epidemic, community health centers, permanent reauthorization for CHIP, services for the senior population, and bipartisan support for the DREAM Act. This bill also harms the people of Texas by ignoring the urgent need for emergency disaster funding for those recovering from Hurricane Harvey last fall. Congresswoman Johnson continued to express her frustration, “this is irresponsible and not an effective way to govern.” “I hope when we find ourselves here again next month that the Republican-led Congress and Administration chooses to listen, compromise, and pass a long-term budget agreement.” # # #
01.14.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement in recognition of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the national day of service that is observed annually on the third Monday of January: “On Monday, January 15, 2018, we honor the tireless efforts of a great man, Civil Rights leader and hero to many across the world, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. He fought fervently for the rights of millions of people, not just in the South, but across the country, who were fighting Jim Crow laws that continued to plague the country. “This year we are witnessing changes to laws that impact those from different backgrounds. The American dream should not be for one group of people to experience, but should be experienced by all. However, that can only be achieved through equality and mindsets to be changed in how we view our neighbors, as Dr. King taught us. “Dr. King’s legacy of courage and inspiration motivate us to believe in a better tomorrow. ‘Of all the forms of inequality, injustice in health care is the most shocking and inhumane,’ said Dr. King. So it is beyond disappointing that in over 50 years we continue to struggle in accessibility to basic human rights such as health care or economic stability. “As a senior Member of Congress from the state of Texas, I have witnessed firsthand and continue to participate in the long sought out fight for peace, justice and equality for Texans and all Americans. We must remain diligent and engaged in defining how our nation will achieve this equality. This weekend many will participate in service projects in their local communities to help those who are less fortunate. May our actions continue to reflect our gratitude of the service made by Dr. King and all the civil rights leaders that came before us.” # # #
01.12.2018	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement after the president’s most recent comments during a White House meeting discussing Haiti and African nations: “The president’s most recent comments about the immigrants from Haiti and Africa are beyond disgraceful. The president’s ongoing war against immigrants appears to be solely directed toward those immigrants of color. America is America because of the slaves who were bought, purchased and shipped here unwillingly from Africa and Haiti to build the infrastructure that makes this country what it is today. And if the president needs a reminder the home where he resides, The White House was built by slaves—immigrants. “No person’s merits or character should ever be attacked based on where they are from. I have been a strong advocate in protecting DREAMers, children who were unknowingly brought into this country by their parents, and those who benefit from Temporary Protection Status (TPS) who have fled civil unrest or natural disasters in search of a better life. My hope and continuous fight is that we will have the opportunity to fix our immigration system so it continues to be diverse and inclusive of those immigrants who are often overlooked from parts of the world such as Africa. May the president’s ignorance not impact the growth of ideas, innovation and development from immigrants who are willing to contribute to building a better union.” # # #
12.22.2017	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement after Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approved Texas’ Medicaid 1115 Transformation Waiver: On December 21, 2017, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) approved Texas’ Medicaid 1115 Transformation Waiver (1115 Waiver). The 1115 Waiver will be effective January 1, 2018 through September 30, 2022, and will allow Texas hospitals to provide the best care to publicly insured and low-income patients. “I’m pleased that the state of Texas reached an agreement on the 1115 Waiver with joint efforts of the entire Texas Congressional Delegation, Governor Greg Abbott, THHSC Executive Commissioner Charles Smith, Texas Hospital Association, and Administrator Seema Verma,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The 1115 Waiver has played a critical role in Texas’ health care system. Failure to approve the 1115 Waiver would have resulted in near catastrophic consequences for the state’s most vulnerable populations,” said Ted Shaw, President/CEO of the Texas Hospital Association. “The waiver has been absolutely critical for increasing access to quality health care. And it has done so with an efficiency that has saved Texas and the federal government more than $8 billion.” This past June, Congresswoman Johnson along with the Texas Congressional Delegation sent the following letter to CMS: Letter from the Texas Congressional Delegation # # #
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Johnson released a statement in honor of World AIDS Day and remains committed to addressing the global HIV/AIDS epidemic. “Today, around the world, we take a moment to reflect and recognize World Aids Day. Each year since 1988, we show our support for those living with HIV and AIDS,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The AIDS epidemic is a public health crisis that affects every community. Despite the tragic toll of this disease, we are making historic progress to halt this epidemic in its tracks. Fifteen years ago, I initiated the first round of talks for the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) with President George W. Bush while I was the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.” Congresswoman Johnson reflected on a previous trip to South Africa, Malawi, and Kenya with her Congressional colleagues in 2015 where they addressed this epidemic and the importance of continuing to fund research for prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. “It is imperative that we remain diligent in the battle against HIV/AIDS. In addition, I will continue to do what is necessary to engage in this fight to promote public health around the world and to protect critical health programs. I urge my colleagues to fight this battle and to join me as we recognize World AIDS Day.” The theme for World AIDS Day 2017 is “Increasing Impact through Transparency, Accountability, and Partnerships.” To find an HIV testing site near you, click here. # # #
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson delivered remarks on the House Floor today in support of H.R. 3017, the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic, Redevelopment and Reauthorization of 2017. A transcript of her speech can be found below: “Mr. Speaker, the Brownfields program has been a notable success in our nation’s history. The Brownfields program has helped to transform and cleanup countless abandoned, idled, or potentially-contaminated commercial and industrial sites all across the United States. These once blighted areas within our communities are now valuable tracts of land thanks to the Brownfields program. As a Congresswoman from North Texas, I have seen firsthand the benefits that Brownfields redevelopment can bring to a community. A 72-acre site in my district, formerly known as Victory Park, was transformed by the Brownfields program from an industrial wasteland populated by an old paint factory and meatpacking plant. Since then – and thanks in large part to the Brownfields Program – that same plot is now home to the American Airlines Center and other retail and commercial space. This is just one example in my Congressional district and across the country of how successful we can be in converting depressed, decaying areas into vibrant economic and cultural centers that can increase employment and productivity in the region. That is why I stand together with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support H.R. 3017. This bill will take the important step to reauthorize the Brownfields program through 2022. While the bill represents a flat reauthorization, it makes crucial changes to the program that will improve the way states, cities, counties, and other stakeholders are able to utilize Brownfields sites. It is time that we continue the rich tradition driving this program and reauthorize the Brownfields program without further hesitation. Thank you, I yield back.” # # #
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC –Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after announcing that the Dallas Fort Worth (DFW) International Airport would be awarded $52 million in grant funding through the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program (AIP): On Monday, November 27, 2017, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson attended a ceremony to commemorate this important occasion at DFW International Airport and announced that the airport will be receiving a total of $52 million in federal funding through the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program. Approximately $49.5 million will be committed to the refurbishment of Runway 17-Center/35-Center, DFW’s busiest arrival runway, while an additional $2.6 million will help fund a lighting upgrade for the Terminal ramp areas. “DFW consistently remains the third busiest airport in the world based on aircraft movements. I am incredibly proud to serve as one of DFW’s key federal partners in helping to ensure that our airport has the resources it needs to be effective, while meeting the growing demands of the DFW region,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As the most senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will fight to ensure that we continue to make those investments in airports like DFW so that we can stay ahead of the competition and keep America moving.” # # #
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after House Republicans voted to approve H.R. 1 – the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. H.R. 1 would raises taxes on 36 million households across the United States: “Prior to the vote today, I reached out to mayors and city managers within my congressional district asking for their position and input. What I received were overwhelming concerns about how this would impact our communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I wholeheartedly believe that we are long overdue for changes to our federal tax code. And the hope was that when we considered tax reform in Congress, that it would be a fair and balanced approach that considered the views of all Americans and not just a select few.” “The bill passed out of the House will prove to be a huge burden on small businesses and working and middle class families. In fact, there are more than 64,000 employer establishments in Dallas County that contribute to our local, state, and national economy. However, this bill ignores the challenges currently facing American workers, families, and students in favor of slashing taxes for the wealthiest Americans and most profitable corporations.” A host of tax credits and deductions will be cut under the current Republican tax plan – such as individual credits and deductions, child tax credits, student loan interest deductions, and lifetime learning credits – in an effort to fund a bill that will decrease corporate taxes by 15%, consolidate individual tax rates into just 4 new brackets, and repeal both the estate tax and alternative minimum tax to the great benefit of wealthy Americans and U.S. corporations. “While I do agree that a modern tax code is desperately needed to help shore up funding for critical infrastructure projects, scientific research, and education, the Republican tax plan falls short of helping to address these dire needs. I urge the Senators to listen the concerns of middle class citizens, academic institutions and local governments. And we must remind our senators that this bill is catastrophically flawed. The devastation that this bill would wreak on our economy is too great to ignore, the effects of which would be widespread and long-lasting.” # # #
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after new report shows 20,624 people in Texas will lose student loan interest deduction and 353,650 Texas teachers will lose deduction for buying school supplies: “Affording an education is difficult enough in the 21st century economy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Yet, this brutal Republican tax plan would bury many students and graduates under a mountain of debt. Young men and women who reached for the promise of higher education will face a heavier burden from their loans that will push their American Dreams further and further from reach. If that weren’t cruel enough, our teachers and schools will also face devastating new costs.” H.R.1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Acts, eliminates key deductions for students, young graduates and teachers across the country, just to hand deficit-exploding giveaways to the wealthiest Americans and corporations shipping jobs overseas. In the 30th district alone, 20,624 people will lose the student loan interest deduction under the Republican bill, according to a new analysis by the Center for American Progress. Altogether, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center, the House Republican bill raises taxes on 36 million middle class families nationwide. This bill also takes numerous steps that would harm millions of students, employees, and teachers, including by ripping away the lifeline of the student loan interest deduction that 12 million graduates rely on, ending lifetime learning credits, ending tax-free tuition assistance from employers and decimating the state and local tax deduction that helps fund our schools. The Republican bill also eliminates deductions for teachers who buy school supplies for their students, stripping a key deduction away from 353,650 teachers in Texas. “Educating our young people is the most important investment government can make,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “How will Texas Republicans justify stealing from students and schools, just so they can write bigger checks for the super-rich and corporations shipping jobs overseas? The American people deserve real tax reform that puts the middle class first, not the insulting rip-off that Republicans are pushing in this Republican Tax Scam.” # # #
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in honor of veterans in our community and across the country as we prepare to celebrate Veterans Day. This Saturday, November 11, is Veterans Day when Congresswoman Johnson will co-host a veterans appreciation event: “I am very grateful for the sacrifices made by our current service members and veterans in our community, including the more than 105,000 veterans in Dallas County alone,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These men and women of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard are the real heroes who continue to put their lives on the line. Our veterans and their family members deserve our profound gratitude and respect. We are indebted to their willingness to serve and protect our freedom every day.” “As a granddaughter, daughter, niece, wife and sister of a veteran, I have stood by veterans my entire life and will continue to ensure that they receive the benefits they have hard earned for their service to this great country. We must protect their access to affordable and quality healthcare, and provide them with the resources needed to pursue educational opportunities and quality jobs and when they return home. So, I remain committed to supporting legislation that protects veterans and their families.” Congresswoman Johnson continued to discuss her plans for Veterans Day, “I hope that you will join me this weekend by honoring our veterans and service members who have given so much to this nation by participating in Vet Fest at the Historic Nance Farm on Saturday, November 11th.” # # #
11.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement today after co-hosting a briefing with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), entitled Blue Collar STEM: The Future of the U.S. Workforce. The briefing was organized to demonstrate a commitment by policymakers to support efforts to modernize our approach to workforce training and help steer young leaders into fields that will enable them to compete in a global economy. This event was organized with her co-chair of the CBC Technology and Infrastructure Development Task Force, Congresswoman Val Demings: “The discussion surrounding the future our of workforce and the skills necessary to succeed in a 21st century economy is one that must continue,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “When we discuss opportunities in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) and the future of our workforce, the conversation should also be inclusive of those who have chosen to pursue a two-year degree or vocational training. Every person deserves the opportunity to participate in our economy.” “This is the first in a series of events aimed at highlighting the importance and value of blue collar STEM fields and what it means to include traditionally underrepresented segments of the population. It is my personal commitment to join my colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus and others in Congress to ensure that every American has the tools they need to excel in these new fields.” The following individuals participated in the panel: Dr. Victor McCrary, Vice President for Research and Economic Develop, Morgan State University and National Science Board Member; Dr. Steve McGee, President of The Learning Partnership; Pat Yongpradit, Chief Academic Officer at Code.org; and Jacqueline E. Rodriguez, Program Associate at Opportunity@Work. The briefing was moderated by Spencer Overton, President of The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies. To watch the briefing, click here. Pictures from the briefing, click here.
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after Reverend Michael Waters, founding pastor of Joy Tabernacle African Methodist Episcopal (A.M.E.) Church from Dallas, TX, opened prayer on the House floor of the U.S. Capitol. Reverend Waters was accompanied by his family, friends, and church members: “It was an honor to host Reverend Michael Waters and his family today at the U.S. Capitol,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Rev. Waters is a true community servant and man of God that continues to help everyone. Earlier in the year he served at my annual prayer breakfast and has been a notable friend of the community. He continues to be a strong and respected leader with his powerful words and commitment to helping others.” “Additionally, I am proud of the efforts made by his wife, Mrs. Yulise Waters, in co-founding the Second Chance Community Improvement Program Court. Their program equips men ages 18-30 with skills to succeed in the world upon re-entry by providing mental health services, career development, and basic life skills training. It was a reminder that we cannot give up on the men and women who are imprisoned and the ones who have a second chance at life. I look forward to working with him and his church, Joy Tabernacle A.M.E., in the near future by uplifting those in our communities with resources, education and awareness.” To review images from today, please click here.
10.19.2017	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after an interview with NBC 5 discussing Harvey Weinstein scandal and sexual assault in the workplace: “Sexual assault and harassment has no place in our society. This is something I believe deeply. And at each turn of my professional life, I have made it my mission to fight for women’s rights,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I do not blame the victims of sexual assault for the actions of their assailants. I do acknowledge that my comments regarding behavior and attire come from an old school perspective that has shaped how some of us understand the issue, but that does not detract from the fact that criminals need to be held accountable for their actions. I will never condone those who feel they can abuse the power of their positions to sexually assault and harass women, and I will always encourage victims to come forward so that we can hold these criminals accountable. Thanks to the testimony of brave women like Anita Hill, students on college campuses, and most recently the victims of Harvey Weinstein’s attacks, we are able to have a public dialogue about the systemic issues that we face as a society. Ultimately, we need to unequivocally support the victims of sexual assault and harassment as best we can while working to hold the perpetrators accountable for their actions. And supporting all women in this fight will continue to be my life’s work.” # # #
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the president signed an executive order that will dismantle the Affordable Care Act and American’s ability to access affordable health care: “President Trump is failing the American people when he chooses not to exercise proper judgment and action when reviewing what is truly at stake for those who will lose their health care coverage due to his proposed policies,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “By signing an executive order the president is creating an unleveled playing field for certain insurance companies allowing “short-term” plans to play by different rules.” “This legislation has the ability to rob millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions of affordable health coverage. And it will allow businesses to provide coverage that doesn’t cover much at all. Congresswoman Johnson continued to stress, “it is important we work together in Congress to provide all Americans with access and affordable health care without driving up costs that will ultimately cut their coverage. We should continue to listen to how our constituents and those across the nation are personally impacted by the health care system, instead of making unilateral decisions that can ultimately harm millions.” # # #
10.06.2017	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the passing of a humanitarian Texan and dedicated trailblazer journalist, Vivian Castleberry. Vivian Castleberry passed away at age 95 from battling breast cancer on October 4, 2017: “Vivian Castleberry lived an amazing life and leaves behind a rich legacy because of her humility, boldness and tenacity to push through the gender lines,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Ms. Castleberry co-founded The Dallas Women's Foundation, The Family Place, and the Women's Center of Dallas and founded Peacemakers Incorporated. And she inducted into the Texas Women's Hall of Fame in 1984 which was the same year of its creation. “Her success in shining the light on capable and accomplished women has contributed to today's women's movement. I am proud to have known Ms. Castleberry—a journalistic pioneer.” Congresswoman Johnson added, “I will always remember Vivian as one of my good friends and supporters over the years. She will be greatly missed.” # # #
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after a new report showed that the Ryan-McConnell tax framework unveiled by Republicans last week would dramatically increase tax burdens for many District 30 families by an average of $8,721 per year by eliminating the state and local tax deduction alone. More than 44 million American households claim the state and local tax deduction each year: “Real tax reform doesn’t raise taxes on hard-working families while handing billions of dollars in tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. Unfortunately, that is precisely what the Ryan-McConnell tax plan would do,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I call upon all of my Texas Republican colleagues to join me in opposing this inexplicable plan to raise taxes on working people. Families in my district should not be paying more in taxes so that Republicans can add trillions to the deficit while giving tax breaks to billionaires and our largest corporations. Instead, the Ryan-McConnell tax plan places the burden squarely on the backs of our most vulnerable segments of the population.” An additional analysis by the non-partisan Tax Policy Center found that 80 percent of the individual tax cuts in the Ryan-McConnell tax framework would go to the wealthiest one percent of Americans. Millions of middle class families would pay more in taxes under the Republican framework. “The Ryan-McConnell tax plan relies on the same tired, trickle-down tax agenda that Republicans have used for decades,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I will fight for the people of District 30 and stand firm in demanding real tax reform that puts the middle class first, with not one penny in tax cuts for the top 1 percent.” # # #
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the tragic shooting in Las Vegas, which claimed the lives of at least 58 innocent Americans and injured over 500 more people: “The violence that took place in Las Vegas last night is yet another senseless act of gun violence to shake our nation. I extend my heartfelt condolences and prayers to the victims and family members of those who were faced with such horrific violence,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The perpetrator’s actions were deplorable, reprehensible, and inexcusable. While his actions were aimed to strike fear at the heart of the American people, we are a strong nation and a community that will stand together as one during these difficult times.” “This is an important time to mourn the loss of our loved ones. However, it is also an important time to act. I will work with my colleagues in Congress to consider preventive measures to alleviate tensions throughout our society and stop such egregious attacks on innocent people before they happen.”
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of three Congressional District 30 schools that were awarded the National Blue Ribbon honor because of their ability to help all students achieve at high levels: Today, Congresswoman Johnson was notified by the U.S. Department of Education that 342 schools were selected as honorees of the National Blue Ribbon. Three of the 342 schools are from District 30 – the Barack Obama Male Leadership Academy at B.F. Darrell Middle School, Dallas Environmental Science Academy, and Irma Lerma Rangel Young Women’s Leadership School. The students at these schools were among the state’s highest performing schools. "This is very exciting news to have affirmation that our efforts to effectively educate our children in Dallas are successful," said Congresswoman Johnson. "Students at all levels are on the trajectory to succeed in their future endeavors because of our educators’ commitment to providing a welcoming and fulfilling educational experience. I look forward to seeing even more schools from our district highlighted for their exemplary teaching and learning in the future." The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program recognizes public and private elementary, middle, and high schools based on their overall academic excellence or their progress in closing achievement gaps among student subgroups. The 2017 National Blue Ribbon Schools are listed here.
09.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the National Science Foundation’s funding award to Southern Methodist University’s Simmons School of Education: On September 11, 2017, Congresswoman Johnson was notified by the National Science Foundation’s funding award for Southern Methodist University. The award of $2,549,462 was granted to Southern Methodist University’s Simmons School of Education to Simmons faculty member and TI Endowed Chair in Education, Leanne Ketterlin Geller, and researcher, Lindsey Perry. This award will be used for the Discovery Research K-12 program to develop measures for testing math skills in numeric relational reasoning and spatial reasoning. "I am very pleased that the National Science Foundation has selected Southern Methodist University to receive this award," said Congresswoman Johnson. "These funds will help Southern Methodist University increase their support to education worldwide, especially in an area where the achievement gap is wide and needs attention." The award will assist teachers and schools in screening students to spot who is at-risk for challenges in math education at early ages. The measures will also provide information about the amount of support needed for a particular student. # # #
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition and remembrance of those who lost their lives on September 11, 2001: “It has been 16 years since the terrorist attacks committed by Al Qaeda took place against the United States. The events of 9/11 changed our nation forever and will always be remembered as one of the most terrifying events that our nation has ever faced. Each year, we commemorate the nearly 3,000 innocent lives that were lost from the coordinated attacks in New York, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Many people across the nation hold onto the memories of the fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, and friends who were lost that day. “During this time we also reflect on the courage displayed by the countless first responders – the heroes of 9/11 who put their lives at risk to save hundreds more. In the midst of tragedy our country was able to band together and become stronger. May we continue to be a country that shows acts of courage and unity in times of need and be forever resilient in protecting our American values.” # # #
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, September 8, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed legislation for emergency supplemental funding. The Senate amendment to H.R. 601. provides $15.25 billion in emergency supplemental funding immediately in response to damage caused by federally declared disasters, including Hurricane Harvey and the incoming Hurricane Irma: “I am pleased by our efforts in Congress this week to pass a bill that will respond to the damages of current and future natural disasters that leave our cities and towns in peril,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “There are many who are suffering emotionally and physically from the loss of their loved ones, homes, businesses, and mobility, so I commend the efforts by both chambers in Congress for working expediently to provide emergency funding that will assist in the recovery and rebuilding efforts across Texas.” “I want Texans to know that I stand ready to assist them along the road to recovery for the cities impacted by Hurricane Harvey.” Absent this additional funding, the Office of Management and Budget has indicated that FEMA will run out of disaster relief money by Saturday, September 9. The bill totals $15.25 billion in emergency supplemental funding. $7.4 billion is allocated to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Disaster Relief Fund (DRF), while $7.4 billion is allocated to the Community Development Block Grant programs to aid disaster recovery. An additional $450 million will go to the Small Business Administration’s (SBA) disaster loan program to assist small businesses in recovery. ###
09.06.2017	THE HONORABLE EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON OF TEXAS ON THE FLOOR OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES September 5, 2017 Mr. Speaker, I rise to give brief remarks about Alex Wubbels, the emergency room nurse at University of Utah Hospital in Salt Lake City, Utah who was arrested for doing her job on July 26. As a non-practicing registered nurse, this story shocked and upset me. I cannot fathom being handcuffed in my workplace for following hospital policy and the law. Ms. Wubbels stood her ground and remained calm during the encounter, which was caught on body camera footage. Hospital policy requires that the patient be under arrest, the police have a warrant, or the patient consent in order to draw blood. Since none of those requirements were met, Ms. Wubbels refused to draw the patient’s blood, with the support of several managers, administrators, and her supervisor. While I understand that the Salt Lake City Police Department is currently taking steps to prevent incidents like this, I find it unconscionable that an officer of the law felt it appropriate to treat a health professional in this manner. I do believe that implementation of new hospital procedure, such as requiring law enforcement officials to check in to the front desk of the hospital, are positive and I encourage other hospitals to adopt similar policies. Ms. Wubbels remained focused on providing care to her patient and ultimately, no charges were filed against her. She is encouraging health professionals and law enforcement to use this incident to “open a civic dialogue.” As a nurse, I am proud to stand with individuals like Ms. Wubbels who turn negative events into positive learning experiences, always put patient well-being above all else, and stand their ground in the face of adversity.
09.05.2017	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its plan to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six-month delay: “Today, United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Trump Administration plans to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Although I am disheartened by their efforts to tear families apart and take away opportunities from these hardworking individuals who have continued to contribute to our nation, this action comes as no surprise. Over the last few months I have witnessed the current Administration make it their sole mission to attack immigrants and their families through administrative actions, enacting a Muslim refugee ban, and the verbal assault against those who seek to have a better future and faithfully serve in their communities. “President Trump’s decision to rescind the DACA program marks the beginning of a dark era that will impact DREAMers in multiple communities in North Texas and across our nation. I stand alongside my constituents, DREAMers, business leaders of Fortune 500 Companies, and faith leaders in urging my Republican colleagues to help pass the current DREAM Act. This bill should be brought to the floor without delay because DACA program recipients should not live in fear and uncertainty of their future for a path towards legal citizenship.” # # #
09.03.2017	DALLAS, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day: “This Labor Day, we celebrate the success of America’s working men and women who built our great country. As a non-practicing registered nurse and dues paying union member, I have seen firsthand the importance of investing in the American worker to ensure all members of our society are given the opportunity to work toward achieving their American Dream. Due to the recent suffering of those in Houston and South East Texas, we must recommit ourselves to putting working families first so every Texan and American can envision a prosperous future for themselves and their children. I pledge to be on the side of the working people so the American workforce can continue to be the lifeblood of our nation's economy and democracy." # # #
08.30.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced $197,764 in grant funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to the Dallas Fire-Rescue Department: Congresswoman Johnson was notified about the grant by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. This grant is authorized under the Fiscal Year 2016 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. This was the third round of the AFG Program – Fire Prevention & Safety announcements. Local departments across the country applied for the grants from the program which is administered by the Grant Programs Directorate of the Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. "I am very pleased that the Department of Homeland Security has selected the Dallas Fire-Rescue Department to receive this federal grant," Congresswoman Johnson said. "These funds will allow our first responders to enhance their fire prevention program and reduce the incidences of injury or death, helping them to continue the vital services they provide to our community." # # #
08.29.2017	DALLAS, TX – Earlier this month, Texas Instruments (TI) announced that their investments to improve K-12 Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education through corporate and foundation grants will total $6.2 million in 2017. The grants are focused on programs that enhance STEM effectiveness among teachers and student improvement in STEM subjects. Texas organizations received a total of $4.5 million: “The announcement of these award amounts from TI and its foundation is great news for the North Texas area,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “I congratulate and thank TI for continuing to be a leader in improving STEM education and opportunities in Dallas and other communities. Whether boys or girls, Black, Latino, White, Asian or other, the children of Texas and our nation are born scientists. The more we provide them with STEM opportunities and experiences, the more we will be able to nurture their natural curiosity and develop their minds so that they will be prepared to pursue careers, in STEM or otherwise, that contribute to a growing economy and greater well-being for their families and society. It is especially critical that we make these investments in low income and underrepresented communities where such opportunities are more limited. So, I applaud TI for prioritizing investments in STEM education in communities of color. Every positive STEM experience has the chance to set a child on a new path.” # # #
08.29.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement on the continuing tragedy and destruction caused by Hurricane Harvey: “I am deeply saddened by the flooding and destruction overtaking homes, businesses, and streets as individuals and families pursue safety,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I commend the first responders, our military, brave citizens who have volunteered, and medical personnel who are dedicating their time to assist in rescue efforts and providing care and comfort to those in need. I am always moved to see people coming together to help their neighbors in hard times like this. I extend my condolences and hope to those who have lost everything and my full support of the efforts being made to provide safety and rescue to those in danger.” “As a native Texan, a Member of Congress, a family member and friend to those who have been displaced in the Houston area, I want my fellow Texans to know we are resilient and will overcome this tragedy. There is hope for a better tomorrow and you have my support for legislation that will allow you a future and to rebuild your communities. When Congress reconvenes in September, there will be a tight deadline to pass legislation ensuring affordable flood insurance provided through the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). It is imperative that we not place the lives of thousands at a standstill and that they be able to have the resources needed to rebuild.”
08.16.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement after President Trump’s response to the violence in Charlottesville, VA. Recently at a press conference, the president stated “both sides” were to blame for white nationalist violence in Charlottesville and he continued to defend white nationalism: “I am deeply disturbed by President Trump's unsatisfactory response to the incident in Charlottesville, VA. He was elected by the American people to be a leader with the hopes that he would unify and strengthen our nation. Instead, his most recent comments will only continue to divide us as a country. It is long overdue for the president to display the strong sense of leadership that is expected of an elected official, leader of the free world, and President of the United States. White nationalism has no place in our democratic society. President Trump should unequivocally denounce such extremism and frankly he has been reluctant to do so. “I have lived in this great nation for all of my life and I have witnessed many things throughout my years. However, I never imagined a day when someone such as the President would defend and align himself with such hateful and evil rhetoric. Our country is better than this, and so are its people. There should be zero hesitation from this White House administration to denounce racial extremism and condemn the violence we have seen in Charlottesville.” ###
08.16.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the City of Wilmer was awarded $51,810 in Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds will be used toward the City's improved response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel: “The announcement of this award is excellent news for the Wilmer Fire Department,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Every day our firefighters risk their lives to keep us safe, so it is important that we make every effort to support the important work and service they provide to our communities. This department is well-deserving of this competitive grant that will be used to improve their ability to perform their jobs safely and effectively. I am very proud of the men and women who serve at the Wilmer Fire Department for their selfless service they provide. As a senior Texas member of Congress, I will continue to push for additional resources and support.” This grant was awarded as a part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District. ###
08.09.2017	DALLAS, TX – Earlier this week, Congresswoman Johnson hosted her Annual Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue at the Meadows School of Art on the campus of Southern Methodist University (SMU) in Dallas, TX. The Summit brought together students from various ethnicities, religions, and cultures across the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex and local experts in the fields of diversity and inclusion, mindfulness, and conflict resolution: Congresswoman Johnson reinforced the message, “we are all global citizens: we didn't choose our parents, we didn’t choose where we were born, or our circumstances, but we can make choices, you can choose to be great.” Each year as summer concludes, Congresswoman Johnson partners with the Aga Khan Council for Central United States to host this day-long Summit to bring students of diverse communities together to bridge divides by offering a safe environment to constructively address and gain insights into the differences amongst each other while discovering the similarities and celebrating both. The speakers framed their remarks around this year’s theme, “Attitudes of Peaceful Participation and Respect in a World Community.” The Summit participants created and presented a group diversity T-shirt project to express what they learned and how they were individually impacted by the experience. The students were inspired when Congresswoman Johnson affirmed she was, “in the company of future NASA astronauts, corporate leaders, scientists, and future leaders of the United States,” who she would see on the news one day.
08.07.2017	105 Democrats urge CMS to reject Texas’ proposal to undercut poor women’s access to family planning services Washington, D.C. – Texas Representatives Marc Veasey (TX-33), Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Beto O’Rourke (TX-33), Pro-Choice Caucus Co-Chairs Diana DeGette (CO-1), and Louise Slaughter (NY-25), and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) co-led 105 Democrats in a letter to Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma urging the Trump Administration to reject Texas’ section 1115 Medicaid demonstration waiver request. The waiver seeks federal payment for the state funded and operated “Healthy Texas Women” (HTW) program that currently excludes reproductive health care providers like Planned Parenthood and other abortion service providers from participating. The HTW family planning extension program was created in 2013 after the Obama Administration rejected a similar waiver request because it attempted to restrict beneficiaries’ choice of family planning providers. Texas’ proposal is the latest attack on women’s health and blatantly ignores the failures of the current “Healthy Texas Women” program. In particular, the letter signers express grave concern that Texas’ waiver application includes specific measures to exclude family planning organizations that counsel or provide abortion services such as Planned Parenthood from Medicaid reimbursement and imposes a parental consent requirement for teens age 15 to 17 attempting to access birth control. CMS’ approval of the waiver would not only violate Medicaid’s freedom of choice provision but sets a dangerous precedent for other states who want to find backdoor methods to restrict women’s reproductive health care access. Representatives Veasey, Johnson, O’Rourke, DeGette, Slaughter, Schakowsky, and 105 Democratic colleagues make it clear that Texas’ application ignores the intent of Medicaid waiver program and will only hurt low-income women who already struggle to access family planning and preventative health care. When Congress established the 1115 waiver authority, its intent was clear. Section 1115 waivers must promote the objectives of the Medicaid program, but they also must be experimental in nature. In addition, 1115 waivers are intended to investigate new and innovative ways to expand eligibility or services, or to examine pioneering delivery system reforms. The strong evidence of the negative public health impact of HTW is proof that Texas’ model has already been tested and proven to be detrimental to health care access, coverage, and public health. Furthermore, approving Texas’ proposed waiver would run counter to Congressional intent in its establishment of 1115 waivers--the protection of freedom of choice of family planning providers, and the Medicaid program as a whole. ### To read the full letter, please click here.
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement celebrating the 27th anniversary of the enactment of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA): “On this day 27 years ago, the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was signed into law by President George H.W. Bush. Since then, barriers for millions of Americans with disabilities have been removed. This important piece of legislation has barred discrimination of individuals with disabilities by employers, grants equal access to government services and agencies, and ensures that telecommunications companies provide services to Americans who are deaf and hard of hearing. Because of this legislation individuals now have an equal opportunity to contribute to society and play an active role in their local community. “However, there is still much more that needs to be done to ensure these Americans are treated equally. The current unemployment rate for Americans with disabilities is 8.9 percent compared to 4.8 percent of those without a disability. The labor force participation for those with a disability is only 20.7 percent in contrast to 69.1 percent for those with no disability. Enforcement of the ADA and advancements in technology have also been concerns brought up by the disability rights community. I am proud to work with organizations like the Dallas Lighthouse for the Blind, who tackle some of these issues by providing employment opportunities for visually impaired residents of North Texas and give them the chance to fully participate in the labor force. “This Congress, I have co-sponsored bills such as the Transitioning to Integrated and Meaningful Employment Act and Accessible Instructional Materials in Higher Education Act. These are great examples of how Congress can improve the lives of those with disabilities in a bipartisan manner. “While I recognize the 27th anniversary of the ADA, I will continue to work hard and continue my efforts for any legislative advancement that will bring equality to all people.” # # #
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, a member of the LGBT Equality Caucus released the following statement after President Trump banned transgender Americans from serving our country in the military: “As a granddaughter, daughter, niece, wife and sister of a veteran, I find it shameful for the president to deem a certain group of people as unqualified to serve in our military. The United States military is deserving of all who we are undoubtedly committed, dedicated and willing to humbly serve our nation. A person should not be deemed unfit to lay down their life for their country based on their gender identity. Our transgendered friends and family member should be treated equally and allowed to serve and protect our democracy and liberties.” ###
07.07.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in remembrance of last year’s shooting in downtown Dallas, in which 5 police officers were violently killed: “Today marks one year since the tragic shooting of our local law enforcement in downtown Dallas. On a night meant for peaceful protests in response to the killings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, chaos erupted and tragedy struck the heart of the city. The unjustifiable act of violence took the lives of five police officers: DPD Senior Cpl. Lorne Ahrens, DPD Officer Michael Krol, DPD Sgt. Michael Smith, DPD Office Patricio “Patrick” Zamarripa and DART Officer Brent Thompson. We remain grateful for these brave men who served in our community. The ambush on the very lives meant to serve and protect showed the stark contrast between law enforcement and the community. One year later, we are still working to de-escalate the message of hate that is spewed throughout the nation. We must continue to work towards easing the tension that is evident in our country by implementing legislation that will bridge the gap between police officers and civilians.” “I commend the Dallas Police Department and Dallas Area Transit for their quick response on that fatal night. Without the dedication of first responders, the situation would have escalated even more. We honor the people who lost their lives one year ago today, as well as those who risked their lives to protect and serve the protesters. On this day of remembrance, let us a remember the heroic actions of those who serve and protect us selflessly each day.” # # #
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, announces that the state of Texas will receive $14.6 million in AmeriCorps funding from the OneStar Foundation, Texas’ National Service Commission. Four organizations in District 30 were granted funding–CitySquare, Regarding Partners, Teach for America, and City Year, Inc.-Dallas: “Congratulations to CitySquare, Regarding Partners, Teach for America, and City Year, Inc.-Dallas who have been selected to receive the grant funding for 2017-2018 from the OneStar Foundation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am certain that those who choose to volunteer with AmeriCorps will have a rewarding experience as they serve those in our community at one of these organizations.” The new funding will support over 2,500 AmeriCorps members to meet local needs in Texas. In return, the members will collectively earn up to $11.7 million in education awards for each completing up to 1,700 hours of service. The volunteers will receive training and orientation so they can serve at nonprofits, state agencies, school districts and institutions of higher education throughout the State of Texas and District 30. # # #
06.21.2017	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with Shan Su, the 2017 Congressional Award Gold Medalist recipient WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson honored Shan Su of Dallas for earning the Congressional Award Gold Medal: “I was pleased to award Shan the Congressional Award Gold Medal in Washington, D.C. today, ” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Shan should be proud of the work that she has done in Dallas and in surrounding communities. She has dedicated endless time and service to her community, but also saw the need to serve abroad in China. In China, Shan taught English classes and shadowed health care professionals. Shan’s commitment to service is what this award is all about.” “Among the many project that she has taken on, Shan notes that she is ‘most proud of Artists for Sandy, a project [she] initiated in which [she] compiled and sold CDs, raising $390 for Hurricane Sandy Victims by donating to the American Red Cross.’ It is the initiative and willingness to serve others that sets her apart from many. I look forward to seeing the results of Shan’s service in our community and know that she positively influenced those among her to become more involved.” The Congressional Award is the United States Congress’ award for the youngest Americans. The program is open to 14-23 year olds across the Nation. Participants may earn the Bronze, Silver or Gold Medals by achieving personal goals. Since the awards’ inception in 1979, more than 49,000 people have earned Congressional Award Medals and have completed more than 3.5 million volunteer hours. To earn the Gold Medal Award, students must spend two or more years completing 400 hours of public service, 200 hours of personal development, 200 hours of physical fitness and 5 days and 4 nights of exploration. ###
06.16.2017	DALLAS, TEXAS – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, a senior House Democrat, released the following statement on the U.S.-Cuba policy changes by President Trump. “I am disappointed in the President’s attempt to drag America back 55 years, when American-Cuban relations were extremely tense,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “The impulsive decision to cut ties with Cuba will result in disastrous consequences that will hurt Texas and American farmers, businesses and airlines. I know firsthand, it will limit opportunities for our universities as well as a number of my constituents who are there as part of medical and environmental research.” Congresswoman Johnson traveled to Cuba with President Obama in March 2016 as well as a number of congressional delegations in the past in support of the normalization of U.S.-Cuba relations and ending the outdated Cold War policy of isolation. “A year ago, I was excited about the new chapter in American-Cuban relations, but today, I am saddened by the turn of events. I was hopeful that our relationship with Cuba would be strengthened, but with the new Trump policies, both the U.S. and the Cuban economies will be harmed.” ###
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Johnson released a joint statement with Representatives Dave Reichert (R-WA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), and André Carson (D-IN) after the introduction of a House Resolution honoring the United States Capitol Police: H. Con. Res. 64 was created in order to recognize the United States Capitol Police (USCP) and their officers’ dedication to protecting the institution and its staff in the face of new and dynamic threats in the 21st century. This resolution will help honor and respect the bravery displayed by USCP on a daily basis and for their innumerable sacrifices to protect Members of Congress, their staff, and the general public. “I have served for almost a quarter of a century in the United States Congress, and I have witnessed on many accounts the men and women of the U.S. Capitol Police putting their lives on the line to protect this community,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Their dedication to this institution and its people has been steadfast, even in the face of the dynamic threats that face Congress. The officers work tirelessly toward ensuring our security, often times without apparent gratitude or recognition. This resolution is just one way for the Congressional community to honor these individuals and express our gratitude once and for all.” “U.S. Capitol Police do not see red or blue,” said Rep. Reichert. “And as we saw yesterday, they do not hesitate to act swiftly and take fire when someone’s safety is at risk. In an environment where the airwaves are filled with headlines of political feuds, they are a steady, unbiased source of comfort and security to the Capitol Hill community. Their commitment to serving and protecting Members of Congress, congressional aids, and visitors from around the world is party-blind and unwavering. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of colleagues in recognizing their tremendous sacrifice, bravery, and professionalism.” “The U.S. Capitol Police are some of America’s finest men and women in uniform,” said Rep. Carson. “Each day, these officers perform some of the most important jobs here on the Hill: protecting the thousands of men and women who work at the Capitol complex, as well as the millions of visitors who travel here each year in hopes of seeing our democracy at work. I am proud to join a bipartisan group of colleagues in recognizing their tremendous efforts.” “The Capitol Police generally don’t get the recognition they deserve. Their bravery this week saved lives, which is just as important as the peace of mind they provide as our nation’s duly elected decision-makers shuffle between buildings and venues all day long,” said Rep. Pascrell. “This is a thankless job about 99 percent of the time. So, I’m proud to honor, not only Special Agents Crystal Griner and David Bailey, who showed extraordinary courage this week, but the full force that protects and serves our nation’s capital.” # # #
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, received the 2017 Legislator Award from Mental Health America: Congresswoman Johnson received the 2017 Legislator Award from Mental Health America for the work she performed in fighting for fair solutions and resources to help those with mental illness. Mental Health America also awarded Representative Tim Murphy (R-PA), Senators Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Bill Cassidy (R-LA) for their efforts in authoring, contributing to, and passing the legislation surrounding mental health. “It is an honor to receive this award with my colleagues—Rep. Tim Murphy and Senators Bill Cassidy and Chris Murphy, who worked tirelessly in helping shape how we address mental illness in our communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Because of our backgrounds and our previous work in Congress, we were all determined to move the needle on mental health in America.” “What my colleagues and I noticed were a lack of resources available to those in need, the inability to receive treatment during the earlier stages of mental illness, and the visibility of mental illness in our prisons and homeless population. In December 2016, provisions of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act were included in the 21st Century Cures Act, which was passed in the House and Senate and signed by President Barack Obama to counter some of the issues faced by the severely mentally ill. This will serve as a basis of mental health reform moving forward and will help us to fix our broken mental health system, refocusing programs and removing unnecessary barriers to care. There is still much more work to be done and I will continue to work and fight for additional mental health and substance use disorder reforms to improve public health for our deserving nation.” # # #
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, releases statement after Congressional Baseball Practice shooting: “This morning, some of my colleagues were struck by a disgraceful and despicable act of violence. My thoughts and prayers are with Whip Steve Scalise, the other members of Congress present at the shooting, their staff, and especially with the Capitol Police officers affected by this unwarranted shooting,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The shooting took place at a practice for the congressional baseball game, an annual tradition that brings members of Congress, across political persuasions, together. There is no place for such senseless violence in our country.” “I am very grateful for the brave and swift action taken by the first responders and Capitol Police to protect those in harm’s way. This act of courage they display every day saved countless lives and exemplifies the sincere devotion these men and women have to serve and protect.” “It is in this American spirit that I ask for all Americans to unite in offering their prayers and well-wishes to all those affected.” ###
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, released the following statement in response to Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: “Today, Attorney General Jeff Sessions was questioned by Congress over allegations of collusion with Russian officials during the 2016 election and any efforts by the Trump Administration to undermine the independent investigation into Russian meddling in our domestic affairs. Unfortunately, I found that many of the questions asked were met with hostility and a general unwillingness to provide clear and concise responses to legitimate inquiries by United States senators. Attorney General Sessions’ failure to answer several basic questions further erodes the American people’s trust in the current administration,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While President Trump did not invoke executive privilege prior to the hearing, Attorney General Sessions continued to evade questions that many Americans – and not just Congress – have about this Administration and its conduct.” “My only hope is that as the independent investigation proceeds in earnest, that we can put aside any partisanship and focus on the seriousness of the issues at hand, such as Russian involvement in our elections and potential ties of this Administration to Russian operatives. Our nation is vulnerable at this moment, and it is imperative that we respond quickly and decisively if we are to preserve the integrity of our democratic system and prevent future interference by foreign actors.” ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, releases statement following former FBI Director James Comey's testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee public hearing: “Hearing the live testimony by former FBI Director James Comey leaves us with more questions than answers,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “However, one point is clear – we can no longer excuse the President’s behavior and complete disregard for maintaining a sense of propriety and lawfulness in his actions as a public official. The fact that Mr. Comey had to take deliberate steps to protect himself due to the lack of trust and apparent conflicts of interest among cabinet officials in the White House is deeply disturbing. It is quite unfortunate that President Trump has chosen to undermine the credibility of the federal government in this way and detract from the more meaningful discussions we should be having about issues facing our nation.” “Mr. Comey’s need to testify before Congress today highlights the dire consequences of delaying a fully independent commission from investigating the Trump-Russia connection and the possibility of collusion during the 2016 campaign between President Trump, his associates, and Russian operatives. After today’s hearing, it appears that Mr. Comey was fired for his unwillingness to yield to President Trump’s demands to subvert such an investigation. That is wrong.” “When the President of the United States chooses to influence an ongoing investigation being conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, it can create the appearance of a conflict of interest. This can undermine the American people’s trust in our government, our rule of law, and the elected officials who serve them. If a sitting president chooses to fire the law enforcement officials investigating allegations of wrongdoing committed by the administration, it sets a dangerous precedent if no repercussions follow such actions. This is where Congress must play a bigger role.” Lastly, the Congresswoman added, “Mr. Comey recalled in his testimony that President Trump demanded and expected loyalty. The American people demand the same of our President, and they expect loyalty to our country – not to foreign adversaries.” ###
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, a member of the Congressional LGBT Equality Caucus, released the following statement in honor of LGBT Pride Month. Each June, the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community comes together to celebrate their courage, their identities, and their lives: “This June, as we celebrate LGBT Pride Month let’s renew our fight to end discrimination against LGBT Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “A year ago this month, the LGBT community was violently attacked at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida. Although our celebration this year is marred by sorrow, we must remain resilient in fighting to protect the rights of those in the LGBT community. They should be able to freely enjoy themselves in public places without fear of being attacked. So this month, we will continue to remember the 49 beautiful souls who lost their lives, and all of the survivors and family members still reeling from this hateful attack.” “We still live in a time when across this country our LGBT friends and family members can still be fired from their jobs or evicted from their apartment just because of who they are or who they love. We all must to do more to protect the dignity of the LGBT community. I commit myself to continuing to fight for full legal and societal equality for LGBT people. Last month, I was proud to join 194 of my House colleagues in reintroducing the Equality Act, comprehensive civil rights legislation that will provide nondiscrimination protections for LGBT people all across this country.” “Pride Month recognizes the courage it takes for LGBT people to come out as their true selves into a society that is not always accepting. It is an observance of those who have fought for equality, in some case losing their freedom or even their lives. And it is a celebration of how far we have all come, for when we are more welcoming to our LGBT friends and family we are a stronger, more resilient and more unified society.” Congresswoman Johnson added, “I pledge to keep fighting to ensure LGBT Americans have the safety and security they deserve in our Dallas community and across the nation. So I am joining countless others in taking this Pride Month to recognize the significant contributions our LGBT friends and family members have made to the fabric of our nation and stand together in the fight for full and total equality.” # # #
06.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, the ranking member of the Science, Space and Technology committee, responded to the announcement the President is pulling the U.S. out of the Paris Climate Agreement: “When the U.S. signed onto the Paris climate agreement, I spoke of how I was proud that we were taking a leadership role in protecting our environment and preserving our planet for generations to come. Today, I am not proud. I am saddened and embarrassed that this country will not be working in coordination with the international community to address the threat of climate change. In a time when we are watching the Great Barrier Reef die, one of Antarctica’s ice sheets collapse into the sea, and experiencing more severe weather events, it is the height of shortsightedness to pull out of this agreement. The President is not only ceding leadership on addressing this threat, perhaps the most serious environmental challenge in human history, but his action today betrays a lack of faith in America’s ability to innovate our way out of this global challenge. Historians will not look kindly on today’s decision. The U.S. should be striving to leave the world a better place for future generations, not walking away from our responsibilities to our citizens and our planet.” # # #
05.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Bosnia, released the following statement in honor of the global White Armband Day campaign: “Today, I proudly participate in the global White Armband Day campaign which aims to draw attention to the continued discrimination against the non-Serb victims by the local government in the city of Prijedor, Bosnia and Herzegovina,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I pay my respects and offer prayers to all the innocent men, women and children who lost their lives in one of the three largest concentration camps during the Bosnian war. I stand in solidarity with survivors of human rights abuses in Prijedor as they struggle to combat the denial of crimes and strive to build a better tomorrow for all people of Bosnia and Herzegovina regardless of ethnic background.” On May 31, 1992, the Bosnian Serb authorities in Prijedor issued an order whereby the non-Serb citizens were required to mark their houses with white flags and place a white armband around their arm when leaving their home. This was the beginning of the campaign of extermination of the non-Serb population in Prijedor and the first time since 1939, when the Nazi decree required the Polish Jews to wear white armbands with the Star of David on their sleeve, that members of an ethnic or religious group were marked for extermination in such a way. Congresswoman Johnson added, “Today, I also stand in solidarity with the parents and family members of the 102 children that were killed in Prijedor and urge the local authorities to erect a memorial honoring their innocent lives. Peace and reconciliation is only possible with the presence of justice and I proudly stand with all those who are working towards combatting genocide denial, revision of history and who are working towards a united, multi-ethnic and democratic Bosnia.” # # #
05.27.2017	Dallas, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the Annual Youth Crime Prevention Summit at the Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center in Dallas, TX. The Summit brought together students from vulnerable and underserved populations in Dallas and local members of law enforcement, county judges, community/business leaders: Each year, after schools release their students for summer break, a traditional increase in youth related crimes occurs. This spike is often attributed to a lack of constructive outlets summer activities or programs for vulnerable youth. This year’s theme, “R.E.S.P.E.C.T. to Stay Safe, Survive, and Thrive” drove the summit’s discussion on crime deterrents, dispute resolution tactics, community programs, and constructive activities students can participate in throughout the summer months. Due to legislative obligations Congresswoman Johnson greeted the audience digitally, with a prerecorded video. In her remarks, she emphasized the importance of making positive choices. “Today is all about cultivating your leadership skills, surrounding you with the right people, and helping you to avoid situations that might lead you down the wrong path,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “And believe me, there are many situations you will find yourselves in life where the opportunity to make the wrong choice is easy.” “Opportunity is constantly knocking at our door. It is up to you whether to open that door and walk through the threshold to achieve your full potential. That means making the right decisions and it all begins with your choice. My hope is that you will leave here today with a better understanding of how to surround yourselves with the right people, how to equip yourselves with the right tools to make sound decisions, and how to channel your energy to do good for your community.” The program concluded with a Q&A session from students to the panelists, thereafter. A special thank you to our community partners and members of the Dallas Police Department, the Sheriff’s Department, our judges, Corps of Engineers, Ms. Pemberton, Mr. McGuire, Mr. Ewell, Pastor Omar, and Pastor Marsh for your participation and in guiding the youth from our community today.
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in celebration of Memorial Day: “On this Memorial Day, we honor the sacrifices of the servicemen and women of America’s Armed Forces who have fought and died to defend our freedom. Members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard have molded America into the great Nation that it is today. I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the brave Americans in uniform and recognize the families of our fallen.” # # #
05.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson was joined by Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), André Carson (D-IN), Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Keith Ellison (D-MN), in introducing a resolution recognizing the commencement of Ramadan. May 26, 2017, marks the beginning of the Islamic holy month of Ramadan: “We are blessed to live in a nation that protects its citizens' right to religious freedom, and embraces religious diversity and interfaith understanding,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Muslim Americans and Muslims across the world take time during this month to reflect upon their faith and strive for an elevated level of compassion and charity. Ramadan is a time of heightened spiritual awareness, family bonding, communal service and worship, and self-renewal.” “Let us not forget that our Muslims brothers and sisters serve our nation everyday by placing their lives on the line. As we approach the Memorial Day holiday, we should also celebrate and acknowledge that over 3,700 Muslims serve on active duty and over 1,900 Muslims serve as selected reserve personnel in the U.S. Armed Forces. I am pleased that in Texas we have the largest Muslim populations in our nation who are active participants and continuously contribute in our communities.” # # #
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the City of Dallas was awarded $128,484 in Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds will be used toward the city's improved response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel: “I am very pleased to see the City of Dallas Fire Department be awarded additional funding,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The men and women who serve at the Dallas Fire Department work tirelessly and courageously by putting their lives in danger every moment to keep us safe, so it is imperative that we continue to support the work and service they provide our communities. I am positive that the award granted to this department will be used to provide better resources for training and help improve the emergency response equipment, firefighting and emergency vehicles, etc. I will continue to fight for the resources and support they need as a senior member of Congress from Texas.” This grant was awarded as a part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District. # # #
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement on President Trump’s Budget Proposal for fiscal year 2018. “The President’s Budget Proposal for fiscal year 2018 is a far cry from the promises he made to work on behalf of all Americans. Instead, the President and his administration propose a budget that provides an abundance of unnecessary and untenable tax cuts to powerful corporations and wealthy individuals, while jeopardizing the future of hard-working families. Critical investments in our nation’s infrastructure are still desperately needed. Yet, the President’s FY18 budget proposal seeks instead to slash funding for important programs such as Capital Investment Grants, effectively killing 56 transit projects that are currently in the pipeline such as DART’s D2 Alignment Project and the Red and Blue Line Platform Extension Project. His budget would also eliminate the highly-successful TIGER discretionary grant program. This is a terrible proposal that does not reflect the needs of our nation. The security of our nation is founded upon a strong economy and the future of our nation rests in our investments in education. The President’s budget steals billions of dollars from critical job-creating investments in infrastructure, innovation and clean energy. It features unprecedented cuts to programs designed to revitalize communities and generate broad-based prosperity. Instead of giving public schools and our teachers the resources and professional development services they need to provide our children with excellent, high-quality education, the proposed budget would severely slash more than 22 important educational programs. Drastic cuts to Social Security Disability Insurance, and Medicaid would undermine coverage for millions of Americans, and abandons our most vulnerable citizens including the elderly, Americans with disabilities, and our children. We simply cannot afford a budget that hollows out our economy, ransacks our investments in jobs, undermines basic living standards and strips funding for public education. We must continue to work together to ensure that all Americans are protected and not forgotten while we seek growth and a competitive advantage in the workforce. ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson joined members of the Texas Democratic Delegation in condemning the threats made against Representative Al Green (TX-09) after he called for the president’s impeachment: “I stand with the entire Texas Democratic Delegation and condemn the attacks on our colleague, Congressman Al Green,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Many of these threats are racist in tone and are too disturbing to repeat. We stand with our friend and against the violent threats made against him and his family that are not just despicable –they are criminal. We hope law enforcement is able to uncover the perpetrators.” # # #
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to former FBI Director Robert Mueller’s appointment as special prosecutor: “I welcome the U.S. Department of Justice’s appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller to oversee any investigations into potential ties between President Trump, his administration, and Russian operatives. Mr. Mueller has an impeccable reputation as being impartial and nonpartisan, and has served our country well under both Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. As I have stated in the past, appointing a special prosecutor to investigate any allegations of wrongdoing has been long overdue and it will be important for Mr. Mueller to have complete independence and the proper resources to lead this investigation.” “President Trump’s desire to wish this investigation away has no credibility in our democratic system. This is a very serious matter that commands our utmost respect for the rule of law, and appointing a special prosecutor will demonstrate to the American people that this government has no interest in undermining the credibility of the White House, the U.S. Department of Justice, FBI, or the law of the land. The American people have a right to know the truth, and an unbiased special prosecutor will help us to credibly arrive at that truth in a timely manner.” # # #
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Amid accelerating revelations of President Trump’s attempts to shut down the FBI’s investigation of his campaign and administration’s ties to Russia, Congresswoman Johnson today joined a discharge petition to force the House to vote on bipartisan legislation establishing an independent, outside commission to investigate the Trump-Russia connection and possible collusion to interfere in the presidential election: Recent polling shows 78 percent of Americans want an independent investigation. “For too long, House Republicans have stood in the way of the full, independent investigation the American people deserve,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We must have an independent, outside commission to investigate the Trump-Russia connection and the possibility of collusion to influence the presidential election without the brazen meddling of the Trump Administration.” “If the President has nothing to hide, then he should welcome the chance to remove all doubt of a cover-up,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is time for House Republicans to decide which they value more: their oath to the Constitution or allegiance to a White House obstructing justice.” The discharge petition filed by House Democrats and joined by Congresswoman Johnson will force the House to vote on H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, after 218 Members of Congress sign the discharge petition. Thus far, Speaker Ryan has refused to schedule a vote on the bipartisan bill, and House Republicans have voted seven times to block its consideration in the House. In July 2016, the FBI opened an investigation into possible collusion between Trump campaign officials and the Russian government. Last week, President Trump admitted on national television that he fired FBI Director James Comey to try to stop his investigation into the Trump-Russia ties. On Monday, we learned the President compromised highly classified intelligence to the Russians and jeopardized the security of the American people – the day after he fired the FBI Director. # # #
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the City of Duncanville was awarded $128,746 in Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) funding from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds will be used toward the City's improved response capabilities and to more effectively protect the health and safety of the public and emergency response personnel: “The announcement of this award is great news for the Duncanville Fire Department,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day by risking their lives to keep us all safe, and it is important that we make every effort to support the important work and service they provide to our communities. I am pleased that the department won this competitive grant that will be used to enhance their ability to perform their jobs safely and effectively. I am very proud of the men and women who serve at the Duncanville Fire Department and the many firefighters throughout District 30 for their selfless service they provide. I will continue to fight for the resources and support they need as a senior member of Congress from Texas.” This grant was awarded as a part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District. # # #
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Johnson welcomed 27 scholars from the University of Texas at Dallas Eugene McDermott Scholars Program to the U.S. Capitol: “It is always a pleasure to engage with students and hear the questions they pose,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “During the Q&A discussion the students showed such great interest in how legislative policies impact the future of scientific discovery, education and innovation. It is very apparent that these bright and intelligent-minded students are aware of how their generation and others can be impacted.” “The questions asked are representative of the concerns being addressed from a larger group of our constituents and nation when discussing science and the process of how our government operates. I am confident that these young minds will be at the forefront of making significant changes in our community if they continue to thrive with their eagerness and curiosity.”
05.09.2017	Dallas, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump fired FBI Director James Comey: “I am deeply concerned by FBI Director James Comey’s abrupt firing by President Trump. I can’t help but think the timing of this questionable decision coincides with the FBI’s full engagement in pursuing an investigation into the Russian interference of the 2016 Presidential election. I call on President Trump to explain his decision to the American people as well as provide a full accounting and justification for this decision.”
05.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after introducing the National Nurses Week Congressional Resolution: “It is with great pride and joy that I introduce the bipartisan National Nurses Week Resolution in Congress in 2017,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Every year, I introduce a resolution to celebrate the difficult and necessary work nurses do on an everyday basis during the week of May 6 through May 12.” The National Nurses Week Resolution was introduced with ten original cosponsors: Reps. David McKinley (R-WV), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), David Joyce (R-OH), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Barbara Comstock (R-VA), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Rodney David (R-IL), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA). Congresswoman Johnson added, “As a non-practicing registered nurse, I know firsthand how valuable nurses are to our nation’s healthcare system, and I know they often sacrifice without thanks or praise. The more than 3.6 million nurses in this country deserve our gratitude and our recognition.” # # #
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson releases the following statement after the passage of the American Health Care Act: “Today’s vote for the Trumpcare bill is disgraceful and hurtful to the American people. This Republican-led bill did not afford the American people time to hear debate while lacking transparency,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We also never received an official score from the Congressional Budget Office stating how many Americans would be negatively impacted and the amount of money it will cost the nation.” “What happened today has stripped away the basic fundamental right of health care for everyone. My office received numerous calls from constituents in the 30th district, health care professionals and health care advocates opposing this bill. Additionally there seems to still be a divide because there were a number of my Republican colleagues who opposed this bill as well.” “This bill is not perfect and it is our job as elected officials to represent the bests interests of the American people. So we should not be supporting or applauding the passage of this most recent bill when it makes coverage unaffordable to those with pre-existing conditions and imposes an age tax on seniors who are the most vulnerable.” “Unfortunately, an opportunity was wasted to really work together to address the current issues of the Affordable Care Act, but it will be up to the Senate to take up this bill. I urge my Senate colleagues to act with humility and do their due diligence to safeguard health care affordability and coverage for everyone.” # # #
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson introduced bi-partisan legislation with Rep. Chris Stewart (R-Utah) and Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), and Sen. Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), to improve the National Suicide Prevention Hotline. This bill, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline Improvement Act, aims to designate a new national 3-digit dialing code – similar to 911 – to be used for a mental health crisis and suicide prevention hotline. While there is currently a National Suicide Prevention Lifeline phone number, 1-800-273-TALK, it can be cumbersome to remember. This bill works to simplify the hotline phone number to make it more accessible to Americans in their time of need. This is particularly timely as May is National Mental Health Awareness Month. “Suicide is the 10th leading cause of death in the United States,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “I am pleased to work with Congressman Stewart on a National Suicide Prevention Hotline which will help Americans during a time of need. While resources do currently exist for this purpose, the national phone number is challenging to recall. We must find a solution for those struggling during a mental health crisis and provide a solution during a difficult time.” “Each year, almost 35,000 Americans tragically take their own life,” said Rep. Chris Stewart. “In addition, one person attempts to commit suicide every 38 seconds. This is devastating to families and communities. The resources we currently have in place for suicide prevention and other mental health crises are simply too difficult to find during a time of need. This bill works to streamline and provide easy access to potentially lifesaving resources.” “Every 14 hours, a Utahn commits suicide, resulting in an average of 557 deaths each year,” said Sen. Orrin Hatch. “The problem is so acute that Utah now has the 5th highest suicide rate in the nation. This trend is particularly pronounced among Utah’s youth. Utah’s teenagers desperately need our help. That’s why last December I convened a roundtable discussion with community leaders, healthcare professionals, principals, and parents at East High School in Salt Lake City. There, we discussed proven methods to destigmatize mental illness and address the teen suicide crisis. In response to what I learned at our roundtable discussion, I will introduce the bipartisan National Suicide Hotline Improvement Act, which will make it easier for Americans to access the help and treatment they need when they consider harming themselves.” “As we work to reduce the number of suicides in Indiana and across the country, this bill would examine if an easy-to-remember, 3-digit hotline would help save lives,” said Sen. Joe Donnelly. “I’m proud to work with Senator Hatch on this bipartisan effort, because we can all support working to improve mental health services and ending the stigma attached to mental health issues.” While there is currently a National Suicide Prevention Lifeline phone number, 1-800-273-TALK, it can be cumbersome to remember. This bill works to simplify the hotline phone number to make it more accessible to Americans in their time of need. This is particularly timely as May is National Mental Health Awareness Month. Specifically, The National Suicide Prevention Hotline Improvement Act: Asks the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to conduct the following study: Recommend the best national three-digit number for a national suicide prevention and mental health crisis hotline. Examine the overall effectiveness of the current National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and Veterans Crisis Line and recommend ways to improve the current system Perform a cost and benefit analysis of using a three-digit dialing code for this hotline system. The full text of the bill can be found here. # # #
05.02.2017	DALLAS, TX – On Saturday, April 29, 2017, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her annual conference, A World of Women for World Peace at UNT Dallas College of Law. The conference is held annually to bring a greater visibility to women who are victims of war and aggression and women who promote peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building activities in their communities. This year’s conference addressed the Israel-Palestine peace process and promoted a discussion of new ideas for a lasting solution to the conflict. “I believe a two state solution is necessary in settling the conflict between Israel and Palestine,” said Congresswoman Johnson. The conference featured a panel of three dynamic individuals who are peace activists and promote peacebuilding along with two keynote speakers. The keynote speakers were Hamutal Gouri and Yousef Bashir. Hamutal Gouri, serves as the Executive Director for the Dafna Fund, responsible for working with the board to develop grant making strategies and priorities, initiate proactive programs designed to strengthen the feminist and women's organizations arena in Israel. As they discussed ways to promote peace Ms. Gouri said, “There is nothing more beautiful than to see a woman, a girl or a boy, stepping in and saying I can make a difference and I have to make a difference. We all have to make a difference.” The second keynote speaker was Yousef Bashir, a Palestinian Peacemaker who grew up in the Gaza Strip where his family’s home had been taken over by the Israeli military. Later he was shot by an Israeli officer yet received treatment from an Israeli doctor. This life changing experience taught him there was an opportunity for coexistence, so today he works to bridge the gap between Palestinians and Israelis. While paying tribute at the conference to his late father – who influenced his dedication to peacebuilding in the region, Mr. Bashir said, “If there is any place that we need and should enjoy peace it is the Holy Land – Jerusalem. I truly believe that this is where East meets West and if we are not able to have peace there, then it shouldn’t be a surprise when we cannot have peace elsewhere.” The other notable panelists were Imam Omar Suleiman, Muslim Community Leader; Rabbi Nancy Kasten; Reverend Vonciel Jones Hill. The panelists and keynote speakers engaged with participants in a Q&A session as well. Additionally Congresswoman Johnson awarded Ms. Gouri and Mr. Bashir both with the Tomorrow’s Peace-builder Award (pictured above). Background: Through “A World of Women for World Peace,” Congresswoman Johnson has worked tirelessly to bring attention to women on the forefront of the peace movement. It is her firm belief that the burden of peacemaking and peace building must be a shared responsibility that encompasses all, regardless of race, class, gender and religion. Congresswoman Johnson saw young boys holding machine guns in Liberia on the cover of a magazine and questioned how our world had come to this point of war and aggression. She thought of how Mother’s Day was founded by a woman that wanted to honor her own mother who was a peace activist, caring for soldiers on both sides during the Civil War. She strongly believed that she also needed to promote peace and diplomacy in the world. Pictures from the conference can be viewed here.
05.01.2017	WASHINTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement celebrating Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: “It is with great pleasure that I take this opportunity to celebrate the rich and meaningful contributions the Asian Pacific American community has made to our diverse nation and community here in Dallas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This month is a special time to reflect on the past accomplishments of Asian Pacific American community members, and look forward to current goals of the community— advancing science and medical fields, protecting voting rights, artistic contributions, contributing to the economy and immigration reform.” “In Dallas, like many other cities and towns across America, we welcome Asian Pacific American Heritage Month with joy and gratitude.” # # #
05.01.2017	DALLAS, TX – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the fatal shooting of 15-year-old Jordan Edwards: “I am deeply saddened to hear of the fatal shooting of Jordan Edwards, said Congresswoman Johnson. “As a mother and grandmother of three boys, I offer my thoughts and prayers to the Edwards family and to the entire community, who all have suffered a painful loss.” “I have spoken with Dallas County Sheriff, Lupe Valdez and Dallas County District Attorney Faith Johnson regarding this incident. Both Sheriff Valdez and Judge Johnson said they have already started to conduct separate but fair, independent and thorough investigations in their own right. I will continue to receive details as their respective investigations unfold.” “It is also imperative that we aggressively pursue these two separate investigations to preserve the trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve.” ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the release of the U.S. News & World Report’s 2017 Ranking of Best High Schools in the country, which had two Dallas-area schools, The School for the Talented and Gifted (TAG) ranked the fourth best high school nationwide and the School of Science and Engineering ranked the ninth best nationwide: Not only were both high schools ranked in the top 10 for Best High Schools in the nation, both schools were ranked in the top 5 for Best High Schools in Texas. The School for the Talented and Gifted and the School of Science and Engineering are ranked first and third in Texas, respectively. “It is with great pleasure that I recognize the significant achievements of The School for the Talented and Gifted and the School of Science and Engineering for being recognized as the best in in our nation by the prestigious U.S. News & World Report,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Because of the impressive emphasis the School for the Talented and Gifted places on a well-rounded education, it is no surprise they are recognized for this honor. And the students at the School of Science and Engineering are more than prepared for college from the training received and are our next young leaders driving innovation. I know I speak for all of Dallas when I say we are proud of the faculty and staff for their commitment to a quality education that can serve as a model for schools across the nation.” # # #
04.26.2017	DALLAS, TX – On Friday, April 21, 2017, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that Aisha Mpiana, a sophomore at Booker T. Washington High School for the Visual and Performing Arts, was selected as the grand prize winner of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition for the 30th Congressional District. Aisha Mpiana said she was surprised and very happy to have won the competition. The other notable winners of the night – Orlando Campbell, a freshman at South Grand Prairie High School, won the second prize while Malik Miles, senior at DeSoto High School, finished third in this year’s competition. This year’s Congressional Art Competition reception was held at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center. Over 100 high school students from 16 schools within the 30th Congressional District had their submissions critiqued by a panel of judges from the arts community in North Texas. Congresswoman Johnson thanked the artists, teachers, and parents for their dedication, and praised the quality of the students’ work. “The artwork that hangs here today is a silent reminder of the unique culture and people within our district,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Arnold Wayne Jones, a judge for the competition stated, “There are many talented artists in the 30th district and we should continue to foster the rich creativity within our students in all high schools. I noticed the diverse mediums and messages communicated by the participating students and found the students social consciousness inspiring.” The annual Congressional Art Competition offers the opportunity for one high school student from each Congressional district to have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for the following year. Aisha will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. and join other winners from across the country for a special ceremony to recognize their work. Aisha’s winning piece was entitled Enlightened. She created her dark-lit self-portrait over a week’s time in an intimate setting while contemplating and feeling at peace using colored pencils. Schools that participated in this year’s competition included The Canterbury School, South Grand Prairie High School, Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center High School, Skyline Magnet High School, David W. Carter High School, Booker T. Washington High School for the Visual and Performing Arts, Lancaster High School, Grand Prairie Fine Arts High School, Moises E. Molina High School, John Leslie Patton Jr. Academic Center, Seagoville High School, DeSoto High School, Franklin D. Roosevelt High School and Duncanville High School. To view pictures from the event, click here.
04.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson receives the 2017 Literacy Champion Award by Reading is Fundamental: Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the 2017 Literacy Champion Award from Reading is Fundamental (RIF), recognizing her commitment to early childhood literacy. "RIF’s Literacy Champion Award recognizes the remarkable contributions of individuals in the field of children’s literacy. RIF is committed to creating collaborative relationships with advocates who share our goal of ensuring all children have access to the fundamental building blocks they need to succeed,” said Alicia Levi, President and CEO of Reading Is Fundamental. “We are thrilled to honor Representative Johnson for her ongoing commitment to families in need, leadership in the community, and her continued support of RIF and strong education programs like the U.S. Department of Education’s Innovative Approaches to Literacy program in promoting the life-changing power of literacy." Since its inception in 2012, Congresswoman Johnson has led the congressional effort to sustain funding for the Innovative Approaches to Literacy (IAL) program, which provides high-quality literacy training to children that need it. The program has granted over 120 awards to areas across the country, including the DFW Metroplex. This year, the Congresswoman garnered the support of 146 of her colleagues from both sides of the aisle, marking the highest level of congressional support that the program has ever received. “I am honored to be recognized by such a charitable organization as Reading is Fundamental. While I appreciate this recognition, the true champions of literacy are our nation’s librarians, educators, and literacy advocates, including our partner organizations Reading is Fundamental, Reach Out and Read, and the American Library Association,” said Congresswoman Johnson. "Their selfless work inspires me, and supporting the Innovative Approaches to Literacy program is my way of helping. I am proud to stand with so many of my colleagues in support of early childhood literacy.” # # #
04.10.2017	DALLAS, TX – On Saturday, April 8, 2017, Congresswoman Johnson hosted the 2017 Congressional Award Texas Ceremony for youth who have exhibited a willingness to voluntarily help others in the community, while reinforcing their own strengths in areas of personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration in their communities. The event was held at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, Texas. This is the first time that the ceremony has been held in Dallas. Dr. Michael J. Sorrell, President of Paul Quinn College, delivered the keynote address and offered an inspiring message about unity and servant leadership to the award recipients and all in attendance. “In this time and in this era we need leaders who understand that it is more important than ever to love something greater than yourself,” said Dr. Sorrell. “You are responsible for leading those who agree with you, and those who don’t agree with you. If you are going to stand up and hold yourself out to be a leader, then you are doing it not just for the group who sits next to you, you are doing it for those people you may never meet, that you may never see, who exist in neighborhoods that you may never travel, but they need you too.” Before the presentation of medals and certificates, Congresswoman Johnson spoke directly to the award recipients on stage. In her remarks she encouraged each of the young men and women to not limit themselves with labels, and challenged them to overcome every obstacle and any circumstance. “Let me assure you, you can start from anywhere, and work to get to any place you want to get to, and this nation offers that opportunity,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “You have to make the most of your opportunities and the opportunities are there. I applaud you for coming this far and I applaud you for loving your country enough to do something positive. But I challenge you to love your country enough to give it your very best because it will be the results of your giving, that will determine how great this nation really is. You have a part to play, you have a responsibility.” Background: The Congressional Award is promoted throughout the country by Members of the House who share with their constituents a unique opportunity to provide today’s youth with the tools they need to thrive as adults. It is the United States Congress’ first and only award specifically for young Americans between ages 14 to 23. The award is non-partisan, voluntary, non-competitive, and accommodates young people with special needs or disabilities who are willing to take the challenge. Participants earn Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Certificates and Bronze, Silver, and Gold Congressional Award Medals. Each level involves setting goals in four program areas: Voluntary Public Service, Personal Development, Physical Fitness, and Expedition/Exploration. # # #
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson releases a statement after the U.S. Airstrikes in Syria: “On April 6, 2017, without the authorization of Congress, President Trump ordered airstrikes in Syria as a response to the recent horrific use of chemical weapons by Bashar al-Assad. Although the United States does not support the actions and treatment of Bashar al-Assad, President Trump and his Administration must first consult with Congress to develop a comprehensive strategy that clearly states the United States’ intent in interactions with Syria. We have a larger issue that needs to be addressed and one night of attacks does not end the continuous troubles seen in Syria.” “The Administration needs to work with Congress in finding a solution to handle the humanitarian crisis that continues to devastate Syria and find a way to protect the Syrian people from continuous violence. Our country should not force an escalated situation by putting innocent lives at risk.”
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released a joint statement with Reps. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Randy Weber (R-Texas), and Brian Babin (R-Texas) announcing the creation of the Texas Maritime Caucus: The mission of the Caucus is to promote Texas ports and waterway districts, illustrate the importance of the ports and waterways to areas of the state and nation beyond the Gulf of Mexico, and advocate for changes in current law to facilitate optimal import and export of cargo and the transportation of passengers. The group plans on making ports a national conversation. “It is a great opportunity to work with my colleagues across the aisle to launch the Texas Maritime Caucus. I believe that this Caucus will allow us to discuss and arrive at effective policy solutions to raise awareness around Texas ports and the economic value they bring to our nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I’m hopeful that under the Trump Administration we will get regulations out of the way so we can get moving and improve our ports,” said Rep. Farenthold. “President Trump’s commitment to infrastructure and deregulation will be good for our ports.” “A Texas Maritime Caucus is long overdue. Together with the Caucus, our House colleagues, and the President, we aim to improve infrastructure, cut back regulations, and focus on the importance of maritime transportation and trade,” said Rep. Weber. “American manufacturing is coming back, and Texas is ready to lead the way. I look forward to working with the Trump Administration and my colleagues in Congress to make sure that our ports, harbors, and waterways are able to maximize their potential. This Caucus, as well as the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee will play a critical role in those efforts, and I am honored to serve as a member of both,” said Rep. Brian Babin. The Texas Transportation Commissioner applauds the Caucus’ efforts. “The maritime industry plays an integral role in the operation of our state’s freight system,” said Texas Transportation Commissioner Jeff Austin III. “With a concentrated effort in advancing maritime operations, Texas stands ready to embrace continued positive economic development opportunities facilitated by this industry – more than 1.5 million jobs and $368 billion in economic value in our state in 2015. We look forward to working with the Caucus to raise awareness of Texas ports’ breadth of activity, resources, and importance to the national economy.” Background: Maritime transportation and associated facilities have always been an important component of the State of Texas’ transportation system. The state has 270 miles of deep draft channels along with 11 deep draft public ports. There are also 750 miles of shallow draft channels and more than 9 shallow draft public ports. Nearly one out of five vessels over 10,000 dead weight tons calling on US ports are served by Texas ports. With the deepening of the Panama Canal and the expected increase in worldwide waterborne trade, Texas waterways are projected to move over 766 million tons by 2030. With the large number of seaports and miles of inland waterways, these gateways account for more than 17 percent of Texas’ gross state product, making it one of the country’s largest maritime states. In addition to affecting the employment of nearly one million Texans, the ports help to generate over $135 billion annually in economic activity and approximately $5 billion in tax revenue. # # #
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson marks Equal Pay Day by cosponsoring the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and guarantee that women can challenge pay discrimination and hold employers accountable. Congresswoman Johnson joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) in cosponsoring the legislation in the House of Representatives. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) introduced the companion legislation in the Senate: Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, American women still earn only 80 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color, with African American women earning 63 cents on the dollar, and Hispanic women earning only 54 cents, on average, compared with white men. “There is no reason women across the country should be paid less than their male counterparts when they are equally or more than qualified with the credentials and skills needed to succeed in positions at different levels in the work industry,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Based on the U.S. Census Bureau’s 2014 American Community Survey, the median earnings for women in Texas is approximately $36K compared to approximately $46K median earnings for men. Congresswoman Johnson continued, “This is unacceptable and men should be upset as well. I would expect they too would want to speak out against this unfairness.” The Paycheck Fairness Act would close loopholes and strengthen the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees. # # #
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson continues to accept student artwork at her new district office location for her annual 30th Congressional District High School Art Competition: High school students who reside in District 30 are eligible to compete in the Congressional Art Competition. The winner of the competition will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. and see his/her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol. The contest is free and open to all high school students in grades 9 through 12 who live in District 30. Students can submit one piece of unframed original art, which can be any of the following: paintings, drawings, collages, prints, mixed media, computer-generated art, and photography. Complete submission guidelines can be found at https://ebjohnson.house.gov/congressional-art-competition. “Art is a vital part of the North Texas community. The Congressional Art Competition provides a unique opportunity for young aspiring artists from our local high schools to have their artwork displayed in the Capitol complex,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “Members of Congress, foreign dignitaries, and their guests from across the country and around the world will see this artwork every time they walk in the Capitol for tours, meetings, or votes. I look forward to seeing our amazing entries later this month and meeting the talented artists.” Participating students must submit entries no later than Thursday, April 13, 2017 at 5:30 p.m. Artwork must be mailed or submitted in-person by the deadline to Congresswoman Johnson’s Dallas office at 1825 Market Center Blvd. Suite 440 Dallas, TX 75207. Students and teachers can direct questions to Congresswoman Johnson’s Dallas office at (214) 922-8885.
03.24.2017	Dallas, TX – On March 24, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the 14th “Eddie Bernice Johnson Math and Science Lecture Series”, in partnership with the University of Texas at Dallas’, at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center in Dallas, Texas. The lecture series was started by the University of Texas at Dallas in an effort to expose Dallas-area high school students to career opportunities, and accomplished professionals in the disciplines of math and science. Due to the impending vote in Washington D.C. on the nation’s health care laws, Congresswoman Johnson was not in attendance. However, she sent greetings and remarks via her Director of Outreach, KL Newhouse, emphasizing the transformative nature of science and technology and how it shapes the future. “Not long ago, Texas Instruments, right here at home, created the first micro-chip. That chip, about the size of a big moving box, was the first of its kind and it changed the world. Fast forward, and now micro-chips the size of your fingernail are hundreds and thousands of times more powerful. That micro-ship changed the way we think about and interact with the world around us. And so has been the rule of innovation. One discovery leads to another, and it changes the world around us.” High school students at Townview were able to listen and learn from two pioneers in chemistry and physics from the University of Texas at Dallas, Dr. Walter Voit, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering; Material Sciences and Engineering, and Dr. Russell Stoneback, Assistant Professor in the Department of Physics. Dr. Voit, spoke to students about organic electronics, and the use of thermomechanic shape memory polymers with 3D printed microchips to repair nerve damage. Dr. Stoneback, spoke to the students about his career journey from garage band member to research scientist, and the intersection of space weather in the magnetosphere and musical manipulations of soundwaves with light. Each speaker encouraged students to dream big and become the next innovators of STEM in the future. At the conclusion of each speakers’ presentation, questions were answered from students in the audience.
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in response to the canceled vote on the GOP Healthcare Plan. “Today is a victory for the millions of people that would lose health coverage if the Affordable Care Act was to be repealed. With an outpouring of correspondence to Representatives and their staffs this week, the people have spoken firmly against this bill. Republican leadership rushed their healthcare bill to the floor without enough consideration for the lives of the people it would affect. I am pleased that the Affordable Care Act will stay in place, and promise to join my colleagues in opposing any bill that comes up in the future, should it be as disorganized and dangerous as this one.” As of now, the GOP Healthcare bill has not been rescheduled for a vote.
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the National Nurse Act of 2017, which would designate the Chief Nurse Officer position of the U.S. Public Health Service as “The National Nurse for Public Health.” Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement describing the importance of the bill: “The National Nurse Act of 2017 is a common-sense, cost-effective way to improve the health and wellness of all Americans. As a registered non-practicing nurse whose political career began in nursing, I know firsthand how national policy can sometimes fail or inhibit nurses working in the field,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Therefore, establishing a National Nurse, who would work alongside the Surgeon General, would help advocate for nurses and in turn advance healthcare for the many Americans who see nurses every day.” “The National Nurse could focus on the important issues of health promotion, improving health literacy, and decreasing health disparities. Nurses play a critical role in the prevention and management of our nation’s deadliest conditions like diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and opioid addiction. It is my firm belief that establishing a National Nurse for Public Health in America would save so many lives—it is a shame we have not done so already.” Key Responsibilities of the National Nurse: Collaborate with the Office of the Surgeon General to identify and address national health priorities; Serve as a visible national spokesperson for engaging nurses in leadership, policy, and prevention efforts; Encourage health professionals to work with community programs to improve health; Increase public safety and emergency preparedness and; Prepare and submit biennial report to Congress on nurses serving in the U.S. Public Health Service. # # #
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after the president released his FY2018 budget proposal: “Today, President Trump released his budget proposal for the 2018 fiscal year. His budget proposal is devastating and troubling to working class Americans. It is becoming clear that the president lacks the fundamental knowledge of how to appropriate funds properly in order to help sustain our economy and build up our lower and middle income class. In addition to failing to fund these hardworking people, he wants to eliminate some of the following: funding for NIH to help find cures for diseases and mental health, research and development needed to spearhead innovation in our communities, art and public broadcasting spending, the aid provided to afterschool programs and teacher trainings, as well as aid to low-income and minority college students. Additionally, an undue burden of responsibility will be placed on the local government to fund new transit projects and social programs to assist with job search, legal advice and housing needs that will not be met in the President’s budget. Only three agency’s budgets were increased – U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, U.S. Department of Homeland Security and the U.S. Department of Defense. Our nation deserves better.” “Although I believe it is important to protect our nation and our military’s strength, it is not the job of the working class to carry such a heavy financial burden by paying for the physical construction of a border wall. And a physical construct is not what we’ll depend on for our democracy to flourish and be efficient. Americans would like to continue contributing to our economy and believe in its sustainability.” “This budget should protect all Americans, not just support Donald Trump’s campaign rhetoric. I hope that Congress will review this budget and be able to protect the interests of all Americans. ” # # #
03.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson criticized the House Republican “Pay More For Less” bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), whose Director was appointed by a Republican President, released a report detailing the consequences of the misguided bill: “Failing to own up to Donald Trump’s promise that Republicans would provide ‘insurance for everybody,’ the 'Pay More For Less' bill’s flaws are showcased prominently in the CBO report,” said Representative Johnson. “Instead of expanding Americans’ access to health care, this bill will result in almost 24 million additional uninsured people in America over the next eight years. This is not an improvement on the Affordable Care Act – it is a partisan play that will hurt Americans and takes us backwards in our progress to get quality affordable healthcare for all.” “The numbers from this report conclude that this bill is not effective in helping people. Hard-working people will suffer and they will not get the care they deserve,” continued Representative Johnson. “I will fight with every ounce of my strength to help the over 300,000 people in my Dallas-area district who could lose components of their health insurance coverage because of the ‘Pay More for Less’ bill.” Key Findings of the CBO Report 24 million Americans will lose their health coverage by 2026 – including 14 million by 2018 alone. Under the GOP bill, 19 percent of the nonelderly population will be uninsured in 2026, compared to 10 percent in 2026 under current law. The bill would slash Medicaid by $880 billion over the next 10 years. Under the GOP bill, a 64-year-old with an income of $26,500 in the individual market could pay $12,900 more in their premiums each year. By defunding Planned Parenthood for one year, the bill would cause many women to lose access to critical care, including contraceptives and other family planning services. The bill gives $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans and large corporations – including the repeal of the 10% tax on tanning salons, repealing the tax on prescription drugs and medical devices, and gives $2.8 billion to the 400 richest people in the country.
03.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson, co-chair of the Congressional Lupus Caucus released a joint statement with Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), William R. Keating (D-MA), and Thomas Rooney (R-FL) after the House passed H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2017, which included funding to establish a Lupus Research Program within the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program: “I am proud to join with my fellow co-chairs of the Congressional Lupus Caucus, Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), William R. Keating (D-MA), and Thomas Rooney (R-FL), to help meet the needs of individuals living with lupus,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Lupus is an unpredictable and misunderstood disease in which the immune system is out of balance, causing damage to any organ system in the body. More research is necessary to better understand this disease. Without sufficient funding, research into the cause of lupus and the discovery of new treatments will be severely delayed. With the establishment of this Lupus Research Program within the Defense Health Programs, we can gain valuable insight into this devastating disease.” “The fight against lupus is a cause near and dear to my heart, having lost my cousin Kathleen to the disease,” said Congressman Rooney. “With 1.5 million Americans living with lupus, this funding is a critical step to further research and treatment development efforts to help improve the quality of life for all people affected by lupus. It is my hope that this funding benefits the lupus community and helps to one day find a cure.” “The Congressional Lupus Caucus is a proud champion for members of our communities living with this debilitating disease, and I am honored to be a co-chair,” said Congressman Keating. “The Caucus will keep fighting for additional funds to support lupus research and education as we take this positive step towards a cure.” “As the co-chair of the Lupus caucus, I’m very pleased that that the Lupus Medical Research Program is included in the Defense Appropriations Act,” said Congresswoman Ros-Lehtinen. “This measure will help provide essential relief to the community of patients who often wait years to reach a positive diagnosis and whose lives have been affected by Lupus. It is my hope that increased research and awareness, will get us closer to that one day no one will be diagnosed with Lupus.” About 1.5 million Americans suffer from lupus. Even though this disease can strike men and women of all ages, 90 percent of its victims are women. Lupus affects minority women two to three times as much as white women. Statistics from 2011 indicate that among active duty enlisted women, minority representation is very high: 47 percent are minorities compared to 22 percent of the civilian population. Furthermore, 31 percent of active duty enlisted women are African American, but are less than 15 percent of the general population. African Americans are among those most at risk for lupus. Their disease begins earlier in life and is generally more severe. More than 90 percent of active duty military personnel are age 17-40, which are the prime years in which lupus strikes (15-44). Approximately 11,000 women with lupus, active duty personnel and dependents, receive care through the DoD healthcare system and that number has been increasing in these last five years.
03.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement after the White House makes second attempt at addressing immigration and travel ban via Executive Order: On January 27, 2017, President Trump and White House officials released its second iteration of the controversial immigration and travel ban. President Trump’s first Executive Order was found to be discriminatory toward Muslim immigrants and struck down in federal court. From his initial travel ban, individuals from seven Muslim-majority countries were barred entry to the United States – including those who possessed valid visas to legally work or study in the United States. It also temporarily suspended the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program for 120 days, while indefinitely banning Syrian residents from entering the U.S. As President Trump’s Administration continues to argue that our national security is at risk due to immigration from the Muslim-majority countries included in the Executive Order, a recently leaked report from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS) refutes this claim. The report cites a lack of evidence to support the Administration’s claims that barring those from the seven Muslim-majority countries will reduce the threat of terrorism. The new ban allows continuous unwarranted chaos and disruption for businesses, families, and those seeking a better life and opportunity. The new travel ban issued today will take effect on March 16, 2017. Foreign nationals from Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen who are outside of the U.S. and who did not hold a valid visa or green card on January 27, 2017 at 5:00 p.m. eastern standard time will not be granted entry to the United States. During the 90-day period, DHS plans to look at the system in place and make revisions to the vetting process. Refugees who have waited many years and endured the vetting process will likely see their applications expire and may have to redo the entire process again, prolonging their time spent in danger and separated from their families. We should not impose a racially or religiously motivated litmus test on individuals in order to gain entry into the United States. It is unconstitutional and is contrary to the values we treasure as Americans.
03.02.2017	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released a new district report highlighting the devastating risks to the district if President Trump and congressional Republicans move forward with their threats to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since the ACA was implemented in 2012, the uninsured rate in our district has dropped from 27.3% to 20.8%. Nationally, more than 20 million previously uninsured Americans have gained access to affordable and high quality health insurance, and 265,600 people in my district have gained that same coverage. Thanks to this expanded access, the uninsured rate has reached an historic low. The ACA’s historic gains were achieved by creating online Marketplaces for consumers to purchase insurance with financial assistance, and by expanding Medicaid. The district report finds that 32,700 people in the district selected high-quality coverage through the ACA Marketplaces in 2016, including 27,600 people who received financial assistance to purchase their coverage. This coverage could be lost if Republicans dismantle the Marketplaces. The report also finds that 301,800 people in our district who have employer sponsored health insurance could lose important consumer protections – like the prohibition on annual and lifetime limits and the prohibition on coverage exclusions for preexisting health conditions – if the ACA is repealed. Republican proposals to tax employer-based health coverage could destabilize employer-based coverage and impose the largest middle class tax increase in history on individuals who have health insurance through their employers. “This report shows how the Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act would negatively impact hardworking constituents,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Today, the residents of district 30 have better health coverage and care thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and Republicans should not jeopardize these significant gains by repealing the law.” The district report was compiled and included in a larger staff report issued today by Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. A copy of our district report is available here.
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after it was reported that Jeff Sessions, current Attorney General lied under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee during his confirmation hearings about meetings with Russian officials: The latest reports reveal that then-Senator Sessions met twice with the Russian Ambassador while acting as a surrogate during the 2016 Presidential campaign for then-candidate Donald Trump. However, when Senator Sessions testified in January 2017 during his confirmation hearing he stated under oath, “I have been called a surrogate at a time or two in that campaign and I did not have communications with the Russians.” “It is not enough for Attorney General Sessions to recuse himself for an independent investigation into President Trump’s Russian ties. If it is proven that he was not truthful under oath then he cannot represent the American people because he has lost our confidence in his ability to review any question brought before him,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In a written questionnaire by the Senator Leahy, a Judiciary Committee Democrat, asked ‘had [Sessions] been in contact with anyone connected to any part of the Russian government about the 2016 election, either before or after election day.’ Sessions replied, “no”. Of all the people in the Cabinet you expect to be above any question of honesty is the Attorney General. If the allegations are proven to be truthful, it does not matter if the president stands by Attorney General Sessions, the American people should not. As a symbol of law enforcement above reproach, we need an Attorney General that exemplifies as such.” “This is all the more reason why we need to commission an independent, non-partisan entity to investigate the seriousness of these allegations with president’s political, personal and financial connections with Russia.”
02.28.2017	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, February 28, 2017) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following response to President Trump’s First Address to Congress: On Immigration: “A border wall will not achieve the goal that President Trump seeks to accomplish and I disagree with its premise to keep all immigrants out of our country. Furthermore, building a 2,000 mile long wall along our southern border is not only a knee jerk reaction to our issues with immigration, it is fiscally irresponsible. Refusing entry to people who seek safety from danger and violence is anti-American and unconscionable. Comprehensive immigration reform, not constructing yet another barrier, is the best solution to resolve this issue. ” On the Affordable Care Act: “Tonight President Trump once again called on Republicans in Congress to repeal the Affordable Care Act, while providing no real plans for a replacement. Thus far, the Trump Administration has only released an Executive Order that was without substance regarding healthcare, and a proposed rule that is nothing more than a delay tactic for their repeal and replace process.” “Over the past six years, nearly 30 million Americans have gained reliable coverage and seen an end to many of the unfair practices of the pre-Affordable Care Act insurance industry including the end of lifetime limits, no discrimination for pre-existing conditions, and free preventive care. The Affordable Care Act did not just provide health insurance for millions of Americans, it reformed payment systems, introduced innovative care delivery reforms, and much more. To suggest that the system is “collapsing” is off base.” “My hope is that we will find a way to work with Republicans in a bipartisan manner to come up with real policy solutions to repair the Affordable Care Act and continue to provide healthcare for all Americans. However we will not idly stand by and allow Republicans to dismantle the health and economic security of hard-working Americans. ” On Transportation: “During his campaign, President Trump had touted his intentions to introduce a $1 trillion plan that would invest in our nation’s infrastructure. Five weeks into his presidency, we have yet to see a concrete plan to that end. This suggests that any tax plan to emerge from this Administration would most likely rely heavily on tax credits for private entities, versus the federal direct spending that is so desperately needed. This approach is entirely off-mark.” “Nearly one in four bridges in the United States is structurally deficient or functionally obsolete, 65 percent of our Nation’s roads are in less than good condition, our rail and bus transit systems are facing a $90 billion backlog, and dozens of our busiest ports are congested beyond reason. This is simply unacceptable.” “Our nation needs a real, comprehensive transportation infrastructure plan that combines direct federal spending with public private partnerships; not tax breaks for private investors for projects that would already be constructed anyways.”
02.21.2017	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, February 21, 2017) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement as she signed onto the letter Representatives Crowley (D – NY) and Representative Murphy (D – Fl) are writing to the Department of Homeland Security [DHS], the Department of Justice [DOJ], and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in response to the recent threat on 11 Jewish Community Centers across the nation: “The 11 bomb threats called into Jewish Community Centers across the nation on Monday, February 20th are deeply concerning. Discriminatory tensions in our nation are alarming currently, and hateful actions like these must be condemned unequivocally and addressed swiftly. Therefore, I am signing onto the letter my colleagues Representatives Stephanie Murphy and Joe Crowley have written calling on the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, the Attorney General, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation [FBI] Director to investigate these bomb threats. The Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice should be working on initiatives to combat the recent hate-speech in our nation, and the FBI should find the individuals who called in the bomb threats and punish them to the full extent of the law. The Jewish Community Center close to home in Houston, Texas is a staple of community enhancement and I wish them and every Jewish Community Center calm and normalcy in this trying time.”
02.21.2017	Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, February 21, 2017) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 22nd Annual Prayer Breakfast at the Music Hall in Fair Park. This year’s keynote address was given by award-winning author and activist, Reverend Dr. Michael W. Waters. In her opening remarks, Congresswoman Johnson spoke about finding strength in prayer and the importance of prayer now more than ever. “We must pray for the strength to push forward and organize so that our voices can be heard," said Congresswoman Johnson. "I believe in this country and I believe in each of you. This is what democracy is all about- citizens getting involved, challenging ideas that are contrary to our values as a democratic nation, and working with their leaders to enact the change they wish to see." The congresswoman also spoke on the importance of diversity and recognized it as one of our nation’s greatest strengths. Reverend Dr. Waters delivered a rousing address that told the story of two Dallas[es]. His keynote address highlighted the economic and social disparity that exists today in Dallas (between the North and South). Before concluding his speech Reverend Dr. Waters challenged the ecumenical community in attendance and at-large to work to serve all communities and to stand up for justice everywhere. The breakfast was attended by approximately 100 leaders from the North Texas faith community. Clergy members from the Jewish, Muslim, and Christian communities gathered for the breakfast. The event served as a time for all the various leaders to offer prayers for the citizens of North Texas and discuss ways that the believers of different faiths could collaborate to better serve the citizens of their communities.
02.16.2017	Washington, DC - (Thursday, February 16, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Trump refused to take the lead on inviting the Congressional Black Caucus to meet with him at the White House: “As a member of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), I believe we deserve more respect for the integrity of the institution and the work we are doing to help protect the interests of minorities and all Americans. The president’s comments today during his lengthy press conference were once again a disruption to the true issues impacting our nation. This includes his lack of transparency and understanding the importance of working with the other two branches of government. However, we continue to celebrate the many efforts and achievements made by African Americans this month yet the president has continued to dismiss and belittle us when he has ignored our request to meet with him formally at the White House. We do not wish to be divisive but his actions are showing that he does not care to prioritize the needs and issues of what takes place in Black communities or work with those of us who have firsthand experience in addressing the issues that gravely impact minority communities. It would be nice if the president would pay attention to how his rhetoric and policies are impacting the lives of people and begin to act as a true leader and lead our country. I can only hope to have open communication and be a resource that is used when the Administration makes decisions that continue to impact the lives of not just African Americans but everyone.”
02.07.2017	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, February 7, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after Betsy DeVos was confirmed as the U.S. Secretary of Education: “Although Members of the House cannot vote on the confirmation of Cabinet Secretaries, Betsy DeVos would not have received my support to be our next Education Secretary,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Throughout her confirmation process, Ms. DeVos demonstrated a deep lack of understanding of matters fundamental to education policy and her record provides no reprieve for such concern. Going forward, however, Ms. DeVos will be the Education Secretary, but I do hope that this historically contentious confirmation process will give her pause to reflect and reconsider her approach to the Department of Education. Additionally that she takes seriously the Agency’s mission to provide every child in America the access to a quality public education they all deserve. I believe that it would be in her best interest to take into careful consideration the concerns of many Members of Congress and those expressed by millions of Americans about her role as the future steward of our children’s future if she is to effectively carry out the duties of the Secretary.”
01.30.2017	Dallas, TX - (Sunday, January 29, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after detentions at Dallas/Forth Worth International Airport (DFW) and across the nation due to the unconstitutional Muslim ban: “I stand in solidarity with the refugees, immigrants and their loved ones who are being banned from entering our country. This does not represent the America that is made up of immigrants or the values we cherish, one being freedom of religion. “Yesterday across the nation and here at the Dallas/Forth Worth International Airport many people were being detained and were not allowed entry into our country. This was all a result of the most recent executive action signed by President Trump banning individuals from seven dominant Muslim countries to enter our country. During this time there is a lot of confusion and families being torn apart. I am aware and waiting to be fully briefed on how many people are being detained at the DFW airport, so my staff and I can fully provide assistance and guidance to those who need it.” ###
01.26.2017	Washington, DC - (Thursday, January 26, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after receiving an “A” grade on the National Education Association’s (NEA) annual report card for the second session of the 114th Congress: “I am deeply honored to once again receive an “A” grade from the National Education Association (NEA) and I look forward to continuing my work in Congress to improve the educational experience for every student, ensuring their future success and that of the nation. “As the Ranking Member on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee and a longtime advocate for an increased focus on integrating Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) in our nation’s K-12 curricula, I was glad to support the congressional passage of the bipartisan Every Student Succeeds Act (ESSA). “The bipartisan legislation strengthened our nation’s commitment to STEM educators, identifies and provides distinction for STEM Specialty Schools, opens new federal funding sources to expand high-quality STEM courses, and increases access to STEM for underserved and at-risk students, among many other important improvements. From strengthening students’ access to ‘wraparound’ services like counseling and extracurricular activities, to including measures that improve Head Start programs, the passage of the ESSA in the last Congress demonstrated that despite political rancor, when legislators put partisan politics aside we can improve the lives of every American and their families. “I look forward to continuing to work across the aisle to ensure that every child is given the opportunity to succeed and look forward to carrying on the bipartisan success from the 114th Congress into the new Congress.” The NEA is the largest organization representing professional employees across the nation focused on the advancement of public education. The Annual Legislative Report Card released by the NEA measures Representatives’ overall support for public education and educators. To view this year’s scorecard, please visit https://www.nea.org.home/19413.htm
01.23.2017	Washington, DC - (Monday, January 23, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the Supreme Court’s decision to dismiss an appeal from Texas officials’ voter ID case: “As a Texas native, I have witnessed many dark days in the fight to ensure voting rights for all people. The 2013 Supreme Court decision, Shelby County v. Holder, overturned portions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 in historically discriminatory states and allowed those states to implement changes to election laws without any checks and balances. “Today marks a step in the right direction and gives us that hope for fair and inclusive voting laws. I am encouraged by the Supreme Court’s decision to deny Texas officials’ appeal of the voter ID law ruling. This restrictive voter identification law has made it harder for the elderly, students, minorities, and rural citizens in Texas to vote. “It is very clear that the voter ID laws implemented after the Shelby decision are discriminatory in nature. Republicans are losing this battle by attributing the need of strict voter ID requirements to voter fraud when the collected data refutes their argument. However, as the fight remains to stop discriminatory voter laws, I will be persistent in my role as a senior Member of Congress in vocalizing my concerns and providing solutions to this issue. I will not allow or accept laws that intimidate voter participation. And I am confident after today’s Supreme Court decision the lower courts in Texas will find a way to respect the rights of all eligible voters.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.20.2017	Washington, DC - (Friday, January 20, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in support of the Women’s March in Dallas, Washington, D.C. and across the nation: “I am proud of the thousands of women and men across our nation who decided to join a movement to unify communities and stand firm in showing the new leaders of our government that women’s rights are human rights that must be respected. The Women’s March was transformed into a movement because of a statement by a woman expressing her frustration of the election process and how our newly elected president’s rhetoric during the campaign was destructive and divisive. “As a woman, and a senior Member of Congress representing the 30th congressional district of Texas, I want to encourage those that will gather in Dallas tomorrow that are standing in solidarity with those that have come to Washington to march. The march is only one day, but we must not lose this momentum in what will surely be an uphill battle. This march is also the first step forward in the fight to protect women’s rights and human rights under this new presidency. So I would like to encourage the thousands of women and men that gather tomorrow to stay involved and informed from the beginning and until the end in your efforts to bring about peace, equality and justice.”
01.16.2017	Washington, DC - (Monday, January 16, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and the national day of service that is observed annually on the third Monday of January. “This year, in light of social and political climate of the country, I have found myself reflecting on the words and life of Dr. Martin Luther King even more than ever. Dr. King was a shining example of a man that dedicated his life to making America live up to the creed that “all men are created equal.” Dr. King, through both written and spoken word, gave a voice to pain and hopes of generations of people that had their civil rights systematically denied due to their skin color. “Today, people across this great nation will be participating in service projects to honor the life and legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. I applaud all of those Americans that have taken a cue from Dr. King’s example and are giving their time and talents to serve their communities. “As a Member of Congress, a dedicated public servant, and the proud representative of the 30th congressional district of Texas, on this Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, I pledge to continue to my efforts to ensure justice and equality of opportunity for all Americans.” ###
01.15.2017	Dallas, TX – (Sunday, January 15, 2017) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in support of the nationwide movement of rallies “Our First Stand.” These rallies are in protest of the Republican’s decision to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “Today, people are mobilizing in support of the Affordable Care Act, to attend “Our First Stand: Save Health Care” rallies and events aimed at protesting Republican efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Many of the events will feature everyday citizens whose lives have been saved due to their health coverage under the ACA, doctors, nurses, and local community activists who are in support of the ACA and would like to educate member in their community on how they can get involved in fighting to keep health insurance available and affordable to everyone.” “The Affordable Care Act is under attack by the Republican-controlled Congress. They intend to follow through on their threats to ram through a budget bill that will severely undermine the health care needs of the American people. Yet, over the past six years, Americans have not only gained reliable coverage, they have also seen an end to lifetime limits, received free preventive care, have been allowed to keep their health coverage on their parent’s plan until the age of 26, and are no longer discriminated against for pre-existing conditions. It is unconscionable to me that the Republicans refuse to look at the provisions that do work in this law and have instead decided to move forward with repealing and have no replacement plan in place.” “There’s a young man, named Sean, from my district whose story is relatable to many in our nation and pushes me to fight for health care to remain affordable. According to the nonpartisan Urban Institute, nearly 30 million Americans like Sean, a PhD candidate in economic development at the University of Texas-Dallas, could lose their health coverage. Sean and his wife, Jamie, relied on the Affordable Care Act when their son, Navin, was born prematurely and with a heart defect that required surgery and a transfer to another Dallas hospital. Sean was reassured that with his family’s ACA Marketplace plan, his newborn son would not be denied coverage for lifesaving treatment. There are other families who have experienced a child born with a health defect and are at ease when they know their child’s surgery or treatment will covered because of their insurance with under the ACA.” “Repealing the Affordable Care Act would also have stark effects on the substance use disorders and mental health provisions in the 21st Century Cures Act, a bill that passed on a bipartisan basis and was signed by President Obama in December.” “We in Congress must be mindful of not only the thousands in our districts, but the millions across the country who are at risk of losing health coverage. I encourage everyone to listen to the stories of those who have been impacted by the ACA and contact your Members of Congress to express your support. I will continue to listen to the stories and concerns of everyone so we can find solutions rather than taking away health coverage from millions of people here in Texas and across the country.” ###
01.11.2017	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson Releases Statement Expressing Disappointment with the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Handling of the Testimony by the Congressional Black Caucus Members Washington, DC - (Wednesday, January 11, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement following the testimony by members of the Congressional Black Caucus before the Senate Judiciary Committee in opposition to Senator Jeff Sessions’ nomination for U.S. Attorney General. U.S. Senator Cory Booker, Congressman John Lewis, and Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Congressman Cedric Richmond all testified in the final witness panel for Senator Sessions’ nomination before the Senate Judiciary Committee. The CBC has strongly opposed the nomination of Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions for Attorney General. The CBC’s opposition stems from Senator Sessions 30 year career in public office where he was a leading advocate for various policies that are in direct conflict with the Congressional Black Caucus and its mission. Congresswoman Johnson attended the hearing along with other members of the CBC to show support and solidarity with the members that were testifying. “I was extremely disappointed with the Senate Judiciary Committee’s handling of the testifying members of the Congressional Black Caucus during Senator Sessions’ nomination hearing,” Congresswoman Johnson said upon leaving the hearing. “I found it very disrespectful that the Republican Senators on the committee did not feel the need to attend the hearing once it was time for the CBC to testify. The only Republican present to hear the eloquent and insightful testimony from Senator Booker and Congressmen Lewis and Richmond was Senator Grassley. This slight only reinforced the idea that these Senators have the same attitude that Senator Sessions has had during his professional career, to discount the opinions of African-Americans.” “To put the Black members of Congress on the last panel was a total break from normal procedure. Usually, as sign of professional courtesy and respect, committees will place fellow members of either chamber in the beginning not the end. It is also not lost on me that the Committee leadership decided to fill this particular witness panel with three other African-Americans to speak positively on Senator Sessions’ behalf. Our members were speaking on behalf of the millions of people we represent and the policies Senator Sessions has advocated for that has affected our constituents. The Committee’s Republican leadership saw it fitting to place three former African-American staffers that could only speak to how he treated them as an attempt to counter the CBC testimony. I urge this Committee and its chair, Senator Grassley, to reconsider the tone he is setting in these hearings and not to discount the voices and the millions of people that the Congressional Black Caucus represents.” ###
01.11.2017	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, January 11, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after President Barack Obama’s farewell address to the nation: “In his eight years serving as President of the United States, President Obama will be remembered as a visionary of hope and one who has been relentless in his efforts to represent and protect the rights of people from different backgrounds. “His legacy will reflect his characteristics of strength, courage, hope and leadership in rising above some of the darkest days our nation has seen; while confronted with domestic and international conflicts attempted to divide us in our values as Americans. Thanks to President Obama job creation has increased and the unemployment rate is the lowest it has ever been in nearly a decade. To further increase job creation the President placed a strong value on community colleges and programs that offered skill-based certifications, so they could be competitive in the job market due to technological advancements. His support of free and fair trade has been remarkable and vital to our district which serves as a major area for businesses and enterprise. “President Obama will be remembered for his leadership on health care, passing the Affordable Care Act – covering 20 million Americans, without the barriers of pre-existing conditions and lowered the costs of prescription drugs and provides preventive services. Those also in our country who have a mental illness or struggle with an opioid addiction will benefit from the President’s most recent efforts to expand services, access to treatment and funding in research by signing the 21st Century Cures Act. “Thanks to President Obama’s integrity and intellectualism he has been a role model for our youth. His creation of My Brother’s Keeper promotes a pathway to success for boys and young men of color by identifying programs that will mentor and educate these individuals on how to build a better life for themselves and their families while being involved in their communities. Additionally because of his strong beliefs on protecting the validity of scientific research in order to combat climate change, he showed the value to our youth by placing an emphasis on the science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) industry. The President pushed for an investment in STEM research in our public schools and encouraged diverse candidates from underrepresented communities to apply for jobs in those fields. President Obama was also the first president to host an annual science fair at the White House for students in grades K-12 celebrating their experimentations and ingenuity. “I am honored and thankful to have worked in Congress with President Obama and Vice President Joe Biden on legislation that has advanced economic opportunities for Texans and our nation. On behalf of the people in the 30th district of Texas, I join in thanking President Barack Obama and Vice President Joe Biden for their service and upmost respect they have shown to the White House while serving as our leaders. “In the President’s speech he reminded us and expanded on the idea of hope for the American values that we cherish and gave us strength to go forward and unite in finding ways to protect our democracy. Let us take part in his call of action to do as such.” ###
01.03.2017	Congresswoman Johnson joins the 48 other members of the CBC at the ceremonial swearing-in at Warner Theatre in Washington D.C. Washington, DC - (Tuesday, January 3, 2017) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined the 48 other Members of the Congressional Black Caucus for the ceremonial swearing- in for the 115th Congress. The 49 member caucus is the largest Congressional Black Caucus ever. The incoming chair of the Congressional Black Caucus is Congressman Cedric L. Richmond of the Louisiana’s 2nd district. “I am grateful to the people of Texas’ 30th congressional district for sending me back to Capitol Hill to represent them in the 115th session of Congress,” said Representative Johnson. “I am proud to serve with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus. I look forward to following the lead of our chair, Congressman Richmond, as we set out in these challenging times ahead. As a former chair of the Caucus, I know the work and focus that it takes to lead the CBC. I am also extremely proud to serve in the largest caucus we have ever had. The size of today’s Black Caucus is a realization of the vision our founding members had more than 40 years ago.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.14.2016	President Barack Obama is joined on stage for the signing of the 21st Century Cures Act Washington, DC - (Tuesday, December 13, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) attended the signing of the 21st Century Cures Act by President Barack Obama at the White House. The bill was passed with bipartisan support from the Senate and House of Representatives. She applauded the signing of the Cures Act and is grateful for the support of the mental health advocates who encouraged her to continue fighting for mental health reform. “The 21st Century Cures Act is a step forward for biomedical research and will spur innovation to discover new treatments and cures,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am so proud to see much of the framework of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act enacted into law today. As we finally address the opioid crisis that has overtaken many of our communities, I am hopeful that the funding for treatment and resources available through the 21st Century Cures Act will be sufficient.” Congresswoman Johnson vigorously reiterated her commitment on this issue. “I am honored to see this group of colleagues from both sides of the aisle come together on the issues of biomedical research, innovation, mental health reform, and opioid abuse treatment. Because of our efforts and the support of advocates across the country, we were able to pass legislation that will benefit millions of people in our nation. This is a pathway to further protect people in our communities who battle mental illness, addiction, chronic disease, and rare diseases. I remain persistent in my commitment to be a voice for those who seek treatment, cures, and solutions.” See video of Congresswoman Johnson applauding the passage of this legislation here: https://youtu.be/iQCnFd0swXc ###
12.08.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, December 7, 2016) - Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) released the following statement in honor of the 75th anniversary of the World War II attack on Pearl Harbor: “As a daughter of a World War II veteran, I join millions of people in commemorating the 75th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor. On the morning of December 7, 1941, when the Japanese planes flew into Pearl Harbor, America was changed forever. Those brave soldiers were all that stood between mainland America and those enemy forces. Our country is deeply indebted to the servicemen that made those selfless sacrifices by putting their lives on the line to protect our nation. The legacy of the lives lost on that day and the ones who fought continues to inspire servicemen to act with humility and courage when wearing the uniform while protecting and serving our country. I also am grateful to the hidden heroes of Pearl Harbor: the African-Americans and Latino-Americans who wore the uniform, acted with bravery, and fought side by side with their counterparts to protect us from this devastating attack. I am especially grateful for the bravery shown by Dorie Miller, from my hometown of Waco, Texas. Doris Miller, known as the hero of Pearl Harbor, was a mess attendant that stepped up during the attack to shoot down Japanese planes and carry several of his fellow shipmates to safety. Additionally I am thankful to the other hidden heroes, the female service members – predominately nurses, who acted with tenacity and displayed heroism in their efforts to save so many lives. As we reflect on this anniversary, let us be mindful of the restored relationship and strong ties between the United States and Japan. On this day of remembrance, we should also celebrate the leadership shown by President Barack Obama who has promoted peace and unity for our country to move forward from this great tragedy.” ###
12.06.2016	Congresswoman Johnson spoke on the need for passage of the 21st century Cares Act in the Senate with Senator (l to r) Cornyn, Rep. Murphy, Senator Cassidy, Senator Murphy, Senator Alexander, and Rep. Upton Washington, DC - (Monday, December 5, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) joined a bipartisan group of mental health leaders from the Senate and House of Representatives at a press briefing to encourage the Senate passage of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act. Elements of the landmark mental health reform legislation, H.R. 2646, Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, has been incorporated into the 21st Century Cures Act. The 21st Century Cures Act encourages innovation in biomedical research and development of new treatments. “Many of us have a family member or know someone that is in need of mental health attention and we cannot ignore this issue,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Additionally, we can all agree that the homeless remain extremely vulnerable to mental illness. However, by ignoring the homeless and their mental healthcare needs, they continue to fill our jails and prisons instead of receiving the proper treatment they so desperately need. I strongly believe that we will finally address these areas of unmet medical needs, which are often the most pervasive issues in our health system” Congresswoman Johnson was joined by other congressional leaders on mental health: U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Bill Cassidy (R-La.), U.S. Representative Tim Murphy (R-Pa.), U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), and U.S. Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Chairman of the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and U.S. Representative Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Chairman of the U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee. The Members were also joined by advocates from the following organizations, who encouraged them not to give up the fight for mental health reform and the battle against the opioid addiction plaguing the country: American Occupational Therapy Association, American Psychiatric Association, American Psychological Association, Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance, Emergency Nurses Association, National Association of State Mental Health Program Directors, NHMH, Sandy Hook Promise, Transforming Treatable Tragedies, Treatment Advocacy Center and more. Congresswoman Johnson also reaffirmed her efforts to push for mental health reform. “I will continue to push for reforms and assistance for families and individuals in Texas affected by mental illness,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This bill provides the framework that will help us make improvements in the lives of those that suffer from a mental illness or opioid addiction. So today I urge the Senate to pass the 21st Century Cures Act, so the bill can be signed by President Barack Obama, which will then allow patients and families to gain the treatment they deserve.”
12.01.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, November 30, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson applauded the passage of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures Act in the House of Representatives. The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, with a final vote count of 392 - 26. “I am glad to see that the 21st Century Cures Act passed with strong bipartisan support,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While this final bill did not have all the necessary funding that I would have liked to see for research, it did incorporate many of the provisions of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. I think this legislation is a strong step in the right direction towards addressing mental healthcare and fighting the opioid addiction that has permeated our country.” The bill contains $6.3 billion in spending over the next ten years. With $4.8 billion in funding over the next ten years delivered to Innovation Funds within the National Institutes of Health and $500 million for the Food and Drug Administration over the next ten years, and $1 billion to address the opioid epidemic. It is clear that Congress is committed to investing in health research that will bring effective treatments and cures to our patients faster. The legislation also includes elements of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, of which I am the lead democratic cosponsor. I am proud that this legislation will include many of the provisions that Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) and I worked on for several years. The bill will establish an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use within the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in order to increase interagency coordination. It will reauthorize grant programs that work in our community like Assisted Outpatient Treatment for patients and Crisis Intervention Team training for law enforcement. The bill also directs the Secretary of Health of Human Services to clarify existing HIPAA rules regarding compassionate communication for patients and their families. These are just a few provisions of the many that will positively affect patients who have mental illness, substance use disorders, eating disorders, or suicide risks. ###
11.23.2016	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, November 23, 2016) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement after U.S. District Judge Amos L. Mazzant III of the Eastern District of Texas issued a preliminary injunction against the Department of Labor’s (DOL) Overtime Rule. The Overtime Rule, which was scheduled to take effect on December 1, 2016, seeks to double the maximum salary cap for full-time white-collar professionals who are exempt from overtime pay requirements. “I strongly disagree with Judge Mazzant’s decision to delay the implementation of this important rule to bring fair pay to everyday white-collar workers,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The Overtime Rule represents the culmination of an intensive rule-making process that was conducted in order to harmonize our labor laws with the 21st Century by including more workers under the protection of the Fair Labor Standards Act. More than 40 years ago, 62 percent of full-time salaried workers were covered under the FLSA. Today, that number is closer to just 7 percent of full-time salaried workers. This is unacceptable.” Judge Mazzant’s ruling is the fourth time in the past 21 months that a federal judge in Texas has issued an injunction against one of President Barack Obama’s executive orders. The U.S. Department of Labor will need to appeal the decision with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals if it seeks to overturn the decision. In September, Congresswoman Johnson voted against the deceptively-named H.R. 6094 – the Regulatory Relief for Small Businesses, Schools, and Nonprofits Act, which would have delayed implementation of the Overtime Rule for six months. ###
11.18.2016	North Texas Seniors participated in the 1st annual Seniors Living Conference On November 18, 2016, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) held her inaugural Senior Living Conference at the Dallas County Schools/Texserve Technology & Training Center in Dallas. The purpose of the conference was to provide information and guidance regarding Social Security, Medicare, financial investments, fraud protection, and volunteer opportunities for local seniors. The conference included several panelists and presentations from a variety of agencies and organizations including the Social Security Administration, The Senior Source, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, and New York Life Insurance. Panelists and speakers addressed issues that impact seniors in our community including, strengthening retirement, maximizing SSA benefits; how to apply for Social Security benefits & Medicare; senior volunteering opportunities, and fighting financial fraud. The keynote speaker for the event was Mr. Michael V. Roberts, JD. Mr. Roberts is a highly successful entrepreneur who manages a diverse, multimillion dollar empire and is the CEO of The Roberts Company in St. Louis, MO. He recently was recognized for operating one of the nation’s largest black-owned businesses. Congresswoman Johnson was not in attendance, but was able to greet the audience digitally, with a prerecorded video. In her remarks she said, “The Seniors Living Conference was created to engage and inform seniors in North Texas. With so much rhetoric and uncertainty that has flooded the airwaves in the midst of this election season, I felt that it was important to give seniors facts and resources so that you can all maximize the benefits afforded to you.” “As I speak to seniors across the district, I have seen that so many of you are very active in our local communities, working every day to improve and contribute to the betterment of our society,” said Congresswoman Johnsons. “This Seniors Living Conference will help to keep you plugged into various volunteering efforts around the city.” “The conference will also help you learn how to: maximize your Social Security benefits, help to educate you on how to apply for Medicare and Social Security if you haven’t already, and give you tips and resources on how to protect against financial fraud.”
11.11.2016	Dallas, TX - (Friday, November, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in honor of American Veterans as we celebrate Veterans Day. “Today is a special day every year when all Americans pause to celebrate and commemorate the selfless sacrifices of the men and women that have served in our Armed Forces,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Veterans Day is our time to remember and reflect on the generations of citizens that have put on the uniform of a solider, marine, sailor, airman, or Coast Guardsman.” “This Veterans Day, let us not forget the promise we have made to our veterans to uplift and support them when they leave the battlefield. As a Member of Congress, I carry the responsibility of protecting and caring for our veterans and their families with me each and every day. We must continue to work to improve veteran healthcare, maintain veteran education benefits, and ensure our veterans have the economic opportunities here at home once they transition out of active duty.” “The freedoms we enjoy as Americans come at a steep price that the men and women of our Military, past and present, have paid for us all.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.27.2016	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with Kevin Ward, TRA General Manger & TRA Board President David Leonard Dallas, Texas – (Wednesday, October 27, 2016) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was honored by the Trinity River Authority of Texas (TRA) Board of Directors at TRA’s regular board meeting on Oct. 26 for her efforts and support toward pursuing federal legislation that will activate new water supply storage at Joe Pool Lake, located in Grand Prairie, Texas, for use in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex. “It is always good to see the fruits of our labor reap benefits for Texas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It was a collaborative effort that involved other members of the Texas delegation and other members of the House, and I’d like to personally thank them for helping to see this worthwhile effort through.” “The process that led up to today has taken years of effort by Rep. Johnson and her staff,” said Kevin Ward, TRA’s general manager. “TRA is grateful for her leadership.” The Senate and the House of Representatives each passed a version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016, which reduced TRA’s interest obligation related to the construction of new water supply storage at Joe Pool Lake, which will go a long way toward enriching the North Texas area. About Trinity River Authority The Trinity River Authority of Texas is a conservation and reclamation district providing wastewater and water treatment, along with recreation and reservoir facilities, for municipalities within the nearly 18,000-square-mile Trinity River basin. TRA also maintains a master plan for basin-wide development and serves as a local sponsor for federal water projects. Each TRA operating project is an independent financial entity, and TRA receives no tax revenues or appropriations.
08.24.2016	Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, August 23, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson made the following remarks in recognition of Black Women’s Equal Pay Day. Black Women’s Equal Pay Day marks the day when black women finally catch up to white men’s pay from the last year. On average, black women in this country must work almost eight more months to simply earn what a white man earned by last December 31st. Black women are paid 63 cents for every dollar white men earn in this country. “We must do something to eliminate the pay gap in this country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The fact that it takes an additional eight months for Black women in America to earn the same amount a White man can earn in one calendar year is shameful. We must reward equal work with equal pay. This pay gap can cost Black women a loss of more than $800,000 over the course of a 40 year working career. This day is meant to show how far we still have to go in earning equal rights and equal compensation for women in this country. Someday soon, I hope to eliminate the need to recognize this day because we will close the pay gap and live in a country where regardless of gender or race, we are all paid equally for equal work.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.06.2016	Dallas, TX - (Saturday, August 6, 2016) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement celebrating the 51st anniversary of the Voting Rights Act being signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson: “Fifty one years ago, President Johnson signed into law one of the greatest guardians of American democracy, the Voting Rights Act. Since the dismantling of the Voting Rights Act by the Supreme Court three years ago, voters throughout our country have seen more restrictive voting laws. Right here at home in Texas, we have seen the elderly, minorities, and students blatantly disenfranchised by restrictive voter ID laws.” “ We in Congress have a responsibility to ensure our democracy does not take a step backward, and we must start by renewing the Voting Rights Act. Too many people throughout the history of our Nation have given their lives to ensure the right to vote for every American. I join my Democratic colleagues in calling upon House Republican Members to support bipartisan legislation to fully restore the protections of the Voting rights Act. Free and fair elections, where every person’s vote counts, are the foundation our democracy.” ###
07.08.2016	
07.08.2016	Washington, DC - (Friday, July 8, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson delivered the following statement about the Dallas shooting on the Floor of the House of Representatives: “Mr. Speaker, the calculated ambush and murders of the Dallas law enforcement officers during a peaceful protest in downtown Dallas last night was a disgraceful act of violence. My prayers and sympathy go out to the families of the officers slain and the victims of the shooting. Our response going forward, not just in Dallas but across our nation, will be more important now than ever before. My thoughts and prayers are also with the families of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile who violently lost their lives this week as well. We must de-escalate the violence. This recent violence serves as a stark reminder that relations between law enforcement and the communities they serve remains extremely tense, and we must do everything we can not to enflame this tension even further. We need to recognize the root cause of this tension and work to end the divisiveness between law enforcement and citizens. I do also want to commend the Dallas Police Department, Dallas Police Chief David Brown, and the Dallas Area Rapid Transit for their brave and swift response to the shooting. These officers are among some of the most capable and professional law enforcement officers in the country and I commend them for their bravery during this incident. Mr. Speaker, I ask not for a moment of silence but also a moment of firm action! We need to bring meaningful legislation to the floor that will help bridge the divide between law enforcement and our communities.Thank you, Mr. Speaker, I yield back.” In addition to her statement on the Floor of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following additional written statement: “As more details of the shooting unfold, I encourage and implore the people of Dallas to remain calm. In these moments, it is important to remember the love of our community is much more powerful than the desire to retaliate. This past week has been tragic and the events of the week remind us that there is very real tension between many communities and their law enforcement. This tension cannot be enflamed. We must continue to pray, search our hearts and souls, and bridge divisions in our communities so that unspeakable violence like this will never happen again.” Link to Video of Floor Speech: https://youtu.be/o5t7-y6Owoo
07.08.2016	Dallas, TX - (Friday, July 8, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the shooting that occurred in her congressional district in downtown Dallas: “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the entire Dallas law enforcement community for their brave and swift response to this horrific shooting. I am deeply saddened to hear that five officers have lost their lives during this shooting. I have been in direct contact and briefed with Deputy Police Chief and the rapid response team and I have offered my office’s full support. This is still an active crime scene and as this situation continues to unfold I urge that everyone stay safe and stay inside.”
07.06.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, July 6, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson applauded the passage of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act in the House of Representatives. The bill passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, with a final vote count of 422 – 2. Congresswoman Johnson was the lead Democratic cosponsor of the bill. “H.R. 2646 is a demonstration of more than three years of collaboration between not only myself and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), the sponsor of the bill, but the many other members and organizations that came to the table to offer feedback, suggestions, and at times criticism,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The end result is a bill that remains focused on enabling the most severely mentally ill to access the treatment they desperately deserve while allowing their family and caregivers to help them along the way.” “This legislation contains several necessary provisions including the establishment of an Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorder,” explained Congresswoman Johnson. “It eases our nation’s chronic shortage of psychiatric beds and requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to clarify confusing HIPAA rules surrounding mental health patients. The legislation also increases grant programs that have proven results in helping individuals with serious mental illness gain access to treatment like Assisted Outpatient Treatment and Assertive Community Treatment.” “As two of the few mental health providers serving in Congress at this time, Congressman Murphy and I have always been focused on the need of the severely mentally ill. While the homeless and prison populations are particularly vulnerable to mental illness, they are the individuals that get the least amount of attention and access to mental health services. Through our work, we have gained a deep understanding of patient needs. Right now, those needs are not being met. I am hopeful that this bill will be a framework to help us move the needle forward on mental health treatment in America. We still have a long way to go, but the passage of this legislation is certainly a big step forward.” ###
07.06.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, July 6, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the first day Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan: “Today, I join millions of people worldwide in wishing Muslims everywhere an ‘Eid Muburak,’ and a joyous end to the holy month of Ramadan. Around the world, Muslims will be celebrating the end of Ramadan with feasts that break their fasts. This time of self-reflection reminds us that the values of Islam – charity, community, cooperation, compassion – are values which we hold dear as Americans and values that have contributed so much to American culture. To the Muslim community of Dallas, I hope your celebrations are satisfying and joyous.” ###
07.06.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, July 6, 2016 ) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Department of Homeland Security will be awarding the ‘Assistance to Firefighters’ grant to the Duncanville Fire Department. This award was made under the Fiscal Year 2015 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. “We must continue to support our first-responders with all the resources they require to maintain their readiness to respond to hazards and emergencies of all kinds,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am glad that the Duncanville Fire Department will be able to use these funds to obtain much needed protective equipment and further their training.” The assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program is an important component of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) effort to strengthen the response and increase the level of preparedness for our nation’s fire departments. The purpose of the AFG Program is to award grants directly to fire departments, non-affiliated Emergency Medical Services (EMS) organizations, and state fire training academies to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Since 2001, the AFG program has provided approximately $6.4 billion in grants to first-responder organizations across America. Grantees will be able to view more information about their grants starting this Friday at this following link (https://www.fema.gov/firegrants). ###
06.28.2016	Congresswoman Johnson hosts innovation roundtable meeting in her Dallas office Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, June 28, 2016) – On June 27, 2016, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) held a listening session roundtable on innovation in her Congressional office in Dallas. The purpose of the roundtable was to assess the challenges facing the U.S. in sustaining its leadership in innovation, and to identify the bold new steps and initiatives that are needed to ensure that America remains first in the world in innovation. The roundtable included experts from industry, academia, and early investors in the Dallas area. Represented at the roundtable were Texas Instruments, the Microsoft Technology Center in Dallas, Tech Wildcatters, Mary Kay, the School for the Talented and Gifted, AT&T, Toyota North America, UT Southwestern, and ExxonMobil. In her prepared remarks Congresswoman Johnson said, “As a proud resident of Dallas, with so many groundbreaking, innovative, important industries and educational institutions, and as Ranking Member of the House Science Committee, I believe that the investments in our science, innovation, and education enterprise are so important because they are essential for the U.S.’s long-term economic growth and competitiveness. “If the U.S. falls behind in technology and innovation, our nation’s economic competitiveness will suffer. The American people will see fewer opportunities and a lower standard of living. “That’s why I’m proud to have worked on legislation such as bills to help bring more diversity to the STEM fields, a bill to ensure that we remain a leader in engineering biology, and of course, the America COMPETES Act. “At the core of the original America COMPETES Act, which passed with strong bipartisan support, was a strategy of increasing our national competitiveness through sustained investment in research and development and in STEM education. It focused on making prudent investments today so that our children and grandchildren can enjoy a higher standard of living than the one we have enjoyed thanks to the investments of preceding generations. “I want to hear from you what bold new steps and initiatives we in Congress can be pursuing to help continue that legacy.” ###
06.25.2016	Dallas, TX - (Saturday, June 25, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in observance of the third anniversary of the Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder ruling: “Three years ago, the Supreme Court ruled to overturn Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. This ruling weakened voter rights protections for millions of Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We still continue to see discriminatory voting laws and restrictions throughout the country. New voting restrictions have been put in place in 22 states, including Texas, making it harder for millions of Americans to exercise their right to vote. It doesn’t seem to be a coincidence that new restrictions are disproportionately in states with recently high African American voter turnout and increased Hispanic population growth.” “The Shelby decision reversed 50 years of progress we’ve made in increasing access to the ballot box for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “ It is clear that three years without the full protections of the Voting Rights Act is three years too long. The Voting Rights Act is the most successful piece of civil rights legislation in history. We in Congress have an obligation and the responsibility to address this threat on voting rights with federal legislation that will restore and strengthen the Voting Rights Act.” In Shelby County v. Holder Chief Justice Roberts acknowledged the ongoing persistence of voter discrimination and invited Congress to come up with a new coverage formula based on current conditions. Two bipartisan bills in Congress would do so, but Republican leaders in the House and Senate have refused to allow a vote on either. ###
06.23.2016	Washington, DC - (Thursday, June 23, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement after the Supreme Court ruled to uphold the constitutionality of the University of Texas’ affirmative action admission initiatives: “Today’s Supreme Court decision in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin is another victory for diversity and inclusion in higher education. The Supreme Court has made it very clear that racial diversity in the halls of our institutions of higher learning is integral to every student’s learning experience. This decision strengthens a policy that has opened doors for many qualified minorities across the country to attend colleges and universities that may have overlooked them before. The University of Texas has shown a commitment to diversity among its student population and is constantly looking for ways to perfect the methods to achieve this goal. The enduring effects of discrimination are still present in the lives of many Americans today. The Supreme Court’s ruling recognizes this fact and upholds a policy that has helped to even the playing field for students across this country. Here, in Congress and across America, we must continue to fight to ensure that access to quality and affordable higher education exists for all Americans.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.16.2016	Washington, DC - (Thursday, June 16, 2016) - Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5293, which will provide $576.3 billion for national security purposes, readiness programs, and health programs for service members, veterans, and military families. The Defense Appropriations bill included key language that establishes and funds a Peer-Reviewed Lupus Research program under the Defense Health Program. Congresswoman Johnson serves as co-chair of the Congressional Lupus Caucus, and has been strongly advocating for the inclusion of this language to establish this research program. “Lupus is an unpredictable and misunderstood autoimmune disease that ravages different parts of the body,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is difficult to diagnose, hard to live with, and a challenge to treat. New research shows that service members may be at a higher risk for developing lupus and other autoimmune diseases. The need for lupus research within our military population is necessary. I am pleased to see that the House Defense Appropriations bill includes $5 million to establish this lupus research program. A Peer-Reviewed Lupus Research program will support the development of innovative ideas that advance the understanding of lupus and that lead to improved outcomes for people with lupus. I am hopeful that this piece of the Defense Appropriations will pass the Senate and be sent to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.15.2016	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, June 15, 2016) - Today, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce held a full committee markup on the amended version of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act. The legislation passed unanimously out of the Committee (53-0). Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson is the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 2646 and worked with Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), the bill sponsor, to craft the legislation. Having been passed in the committee, it is now up to the Republican leadership in the House of Representatives to bring this bill before the entire House of Representatives for a vote. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act is the most significant mental health reform bill in recent memory. In response to this historic bill passing the committee and becoming eligible for a floor vote, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement: “As two members of Congress with experience as mental health providers, Congressman Murphy and I have seen firsthand how federal mental health policies have failed mentally ill patients and families dealing with mental illness. The passage of the amended version of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, by the Committee on Energy and Commerce is a great first step to passing a bill that will go a long way towards reforming our broken mental healthcare system. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act provides a viable framework that will enable patients to access treatment. The bill also equips families and caregivers with the help they need to access treatment for their mentally ill loved ones. The next step in moving this legislation forward will be urging House leadership to bring this bill to vote on the House Floor. I strongly believe that these changes to our federal mental health system will have an immediate impact on patients, families, and caregivers.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.13.2016	Dallas, TX - (Monday, June 13, 2016) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in the wake of the deadliest mass shooting in United States’ history that occurred this weekend in Orlando, Florida. “My thoughts and prayers go out to all the victims of this senseless shooting. This attack was an act of hate that marred a weekend where millions of LGBT Americans held pride events in cities across the country. It is outrageous that the LGBT community was targeted with such violence. There have been reports that the ex-wife of the shooter claims he suffered from mental illness. If this is true, this tragedy provides another example of the need for reform to our mental health system. As the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 2646, the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, I recognize the need to be able to identify and treat those with mental illnesses before their illnesses result in deadly acts. Tragically, news reports about mass gun violence have become a constant presence in our everyday lives. This attack reiterates the need for our country to fundamentally rethink the gun culture and the laws that surround it in America. When one man, with a history of domestic abuse and mental illness, is able to buy a gun, murder 49 people and injure more than 50 others, it highlights the deficiencies in our current system. We must not continue to send condolences to the countless victims of violence without doing everything in our power to prevent more families and communities from suffering from this kind of senseless violence. We must act now to end mass shootings in our country.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.03.2016	Dallas, Texas- ( Friday June 3, 2016 ) Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today in recognition of the holy month of Ramadan: "Next week, Ramadan will begin, and as before, American Muslims will congregate and rejoice as they fast from sunrise to sundown. But Ramadan is more than abstaining from food and liquids; it is a time for men and women of all positions to converse with each other, aid each other, and nurture each other. It is a time for self-reflection, where one realizes the profound impact the simplest things in life have on them. More importantly, it is a time for change, a change for the better. Today more than ever, American Muslims are questioned as to the intention of their religion. However, in a nation founded on tolerance and diversity, we as Americans should encourage rather than discourage our fellow Americans as they delve into this month of self-awareness, repentance, and acceptance." ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - (Wednesday, May 11th, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced the National Nurses Week Resolution in observance of National Nurses Week. In its 26th year, National Nurses Week is dedicated to giving recognition to the vast contributions nurses make to the healthcare profession. It runs from May 6th, National Nurses Day, to May 12th, Florence Nightingale’s birthday. Congresswoman Johnson said: “As a non-practicing registered nurse and member of the Congressional Nursing Caucus, I am acutely aware of how valuable nurses are to the medical system, patients, and our society. Whether in hospitals, nursing homes, community clinics, or any other setting, nurses are integral to patient care. Nurses are our greatest resource in eliminating health disparities and alleviating chronic disease as they exemplify and lead prevention and public health efforts. This resolution is a small token of gratitude and recognition for all the hard work nurses perform.” There are more than 3.4 million registered nurses in the United States, making them the largest constituency of health professionals in the country. Nurses are at the forefront of reducing health disparities, ensuring safety in the medical space, and knowing best how to communicate complicated matters to distressed patients. The National Nurses Week Resolution has 30 bipartisan original cosponsors: Co-sponsors include Democratic and Republican Representatives: Corrine Brown (D-FL), Lois Capps(D-CA) Scott Peters (D-CA), Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Yvette Clark (D-NY), David Joyce(R-OH), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), John Lewis (D-GA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Bobby Rush (D-IL), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Madeleine Bordallo (D-GU), Stephen Lynch (D-MA), Diane Black (R-TN), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Rodney Davis (R-IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), André Carson (D-IN), and David McKinley (R-WV). ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - (Wednesday, May 11th, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding three grants awarded to the Dallas area through the National Endowment for the Arts: “I want to congratulate the city of Dallas and our arts community on being the recipient of three grants that will enhance the city’s exposure to the arts. The arts are an integral component of the diverse and vibrant life that Dallas citizens enjoy. We owe serious gratitude to the National Endowment for the Arts for their work in helping to enhance the culture of Dallas.” The National Endowment for the Arts awarded $20,000 to the Dallas Museum of Art to support “Making Friends: A Digital, Data-driven Approach to Community Outreach,” a program that will increase museum participation in Dallas’ underserved communities; $30,000 for a community workshop called “Activating Vacancy: Control of Public Space – Downtown Dallas,” which will call on local artists to transform vacant public spaces into works of art; as well as $75,000 to a community workshop that will provide training to and open new dialogue with Housing Assistance Council employees in order to allow affording housing developers to collaborate with residents to create more livable spaces for the community. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.01.2016	Hundreds gathered for the 2016 “A World of Women for World Peace” conference Dallas, TX - (Saturday, April 30, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the annual “A World of Women for World Peace” Conference in Dallas, Texas at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center. “The concept of peace and conflict resolution is crucial to me,” Congresswoman Johnson told the more than 200 people in attendance. “After the events of September 11th 2001, I saw a magazine cover that had a picture of two boys from Liberia who were 12 and 14 years old all dressed in war gear with machine guns. I have two grandsons who were their age and I knew that I had to rally women to do something about war and conflict. Women are natural peace-builders and it has been women who have driven the peace movement around the world." This year’s conference theme was: Women, World Peace and Security. The conference was moderated by peace-building trainer, Ms. Robyn Short and featured a panel of 3 dynamic women who are peace activists from both North Texas and Africa. The first panelist was Nikiya Natale, the immigration attorney for Refugee Services of Texas in Dallas. Ms. Natale manages a program that focuses on immigration issues facing refugees. The second panelist was Ms. Mu Naw Di, the vice chair of the Youth Commission in Dallas. Ms. Naw Di was born in a small village in Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, during the midst of the country’s long waging civil war. She now focuses her efforts on the Youth Commission to identify programs and services needed in the community and promote civic engagement among youth. The final panelist and keynote speaker was Sister Rosemary Nyirumbe of Gulu, Uganda. She is a nun and peace activist that has gained international recognition by helping thousands of young girls that have fled captivity from rebels in Uganda. Sister Rosemary’s work as the director of the St. Monica’s Girls Tailoring Centre, in Gulu led to TIME magazine recognizing her as one of the “100 Most Influential People’ in the world in 2014. “It is difficult for me to talk about peace, but I believe that we can bring about peace if each woman in the world works towards that goal,” Sister Rosemary said during her keynote address. “We must learn to love those who have been victims of violence. If we really want to be peace-builders we must be present in the lives of those who experience violence." Congresswoman Johnson began “A World of Women for World Peace” in 2001 to bring greater visibility to the women who are victims of war and aggression, and the women who facilitate peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace building activities in their communities. It is her firm belief that the burden of peacemaking and peace building must be a shared responsibility that encompasses all, regardless of race, class, gender and religion. We must look at the human and economic costs of war to realize just how urgently we need to actively pursue peace. The costs of war cannot merely be measured with statistics. In fact, the real faces of war are torn and displaced communities, women suffering the ravages of rape and widowhood, children with missing limbs and orphans without the hope of education and healthcare. See pictures from the event here ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.26.2016	Following the downlink, students learned the process of how NASA communicates in space Watch the Video of the live stream here Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, April 26, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a special edition of the “Eddie Bernice Johnson Math & Science Lecture Series” at the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center. Students from the School for the Talented and Gifted, along with students from the Dallas ISD, Lancaster ISD, DeSoto ISD, Grand Prairie ISD, Cedar Hill ISD, and Duncanville ISD took part in a live NASA downlink. The student had an opportunity to speak directly with astronauts currently living and working on the International Space Station. “This is exciting, because this is the first time that students in Dallas have had the opportunity to participate in a live downlink from the space station,” Congresswoman Johnson said as she addressed the students in attendance. “I felt it was very important that each student here was included in such an unique and eye-opening experience. You are the future. We are depending on you to take us to the next levels of science and technology. We have miles and miles to go, but I believe in you and your abilities. It is up to you to ensure that America keeps its competitive edge by making new discoveries and developing the industries of the future. America is relying on your talent, your brain power, your creativity, your ingenuity, your innovation and most importantly, your commitment. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson is the first African-American and the first female Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She has been a champion for STEM and space exploration throughout her career. She hosts annual installments of the "Eddie Bernice Johnson Math & Science Lecture Series” at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center as part of her commitment to providing opportunities for District 30 students to meet with accomplished STEM professionals from various fields and expose students to the vast array of career possibilities within the Science, Engineering, Math, and Technology fields. The downlink was a live 20-minute, Earth-to-space call between the students and two astronauts: NASA Astronaut Jeff Williams and European Space Agency astronaut Tim Peake. Jeff Williams launched to the space station on March 18 and will live aboard until September. Tim Peake launched on Dec. 15 and will return home in June. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.21.2016	Washington, DC - (Thursday, April 21, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Gina McCarthy outlining their concerns with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality’s (TCEQ) proposed revision to the Dallas-Ft. Worth 2008 Eight-Hour Nonattainment Area Attainment Demonstration State Implementation Plan (SIP) for the 2017 Attainment Year. Dallas County Commissioner Theresa Daniel put a resolution on the Dallas County Court’s agenda for May 3rd that urges the EPA to use a Federal Implementation Plan if the agency decides that the TCEQ’s SIP revision is insufficient. On Wednesday, the American Lung Association assigned letter grades to Texas counties in its “State of the Air” report. Dallas County and Tarrant County both received an “F” for their Ozone Grades. Ozone pollution is particularly harmful to children, older adults, and especially to the 26 million people who have asthma in this country. “Unfortunately, TCEQ is not fulfilling its obligation to protect the citizens of DFW from the toxic human health and economic impacts of ozone pollution,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The state's current plan for addressing air quality in DFW is insufficient to meet the existing federal ozone standard. I sincerely hope that TCEQ will take the public comments it received by EPA, the Texas Medical Association and others into consideration and require additional emissions controls be included in the final SIP revision it submits to the EPA.” Link to letter ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.19.2016	“I want to congratulate everyone at The School for the Talented and Gifted for this amazing recognition. This ranking is a testament to the hard work and dedication of teachers, the staff, the administrators, and especially the students. I am honored to have such an incredible example to our nation right here in my district. The students, faculty and staff at TAG are modeling excellence in education, strategies for reducing opportunity gaps and improving student achievement and academic preparedness. I also want to congratulate another school on the Yvonne A. Ewell Magnet Center campus, the School of Science and Engineering, for being the second highest ranked high school in the state. As a lifelong STEM advocate, I am especially proud to see how far STEM courses have taken this school and its students. I am looking forward to continuing our efforts to provide different and unique educational opportunities to the students. On April 26th, I will be hosting a live downlink with NASA at Townview so that students can see and talk to astronauts on the space station live! These kinds of enrichment activities, coupled with the challenging STEM curriculum, are preparing these students to be tomorrow’s leaders. Through their challenging and practical courses, the students at Townview Magnet Center are learning critical skills that will prepare them for hi-tech jobs and to create the innovative industries of the future.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.15.2016	Washington, DC - (Friday, April 15, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) led an eight-member delegation of Texas Congressional Democrats in petitioning Speaker Paul Ryan and Congressional Appropriators to provide emergency supplemental funding that will be used to combat the Zika virus. The Zika virus originated in Brazil in 2015 and now presents an imminent public health threat to the rest of the Western hemisphere, especially for pregnant women in the affected regions. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently confirmed the Zika virus to be a cause of microcephaly and a likely cause of Guillain-Barre syndrome and other neurological disorders. There are currently more than 300 travel-associated U.S. Zika cases reported to the CDC, with the first confirmed sexually transmitted case in Dallas, Texas. The letter details the urgent efforts needed to aggressively address and prevent the spread of Zika within the United States. It specifically requested $1.8 billion in emergency federal funds to support local and state efforts to eradicate the virus. The CDC recently announced cuts to state and local Public Health Emergency Preparedness (PHEP), including a 10% cut to the state of Texas, due to Republicans’ refusal to pass supplemental funding. Recently, Republican leadership redirected funds provided to fight Ebola for the purpose of combating the Zika virus. “A re-shuffling of Ebola funding is not a sufficient response to the pressing threat that the Zika virus poses for vulnerable populations nationwide, especially in densely populated areas like the Dallas-Forth Metroplex,” said Congressman Veasey. “The CDC is already deploying an aggressive nationwide effort to educate the public about the threat of the Zika virus and prevent its further spread. We must ensure that local health officials have all the necessary tools to protect Texas residents and the American people as a whole.” Congresswoman Johnson added: “At a time when we know very little about the Zika virus, we cannot simply shift funding from one emergency to the next. If the White House’s request for $1.8 billion in emergency supplemental funding is not approved, measures to fight Zika will be delayed or even stopped. The House leadership’s preference to take a ‘wait and see’ approach will ultimately negatively contribute to a global health crisis. We must provide emergency supplemental funding because the Zika virus is already in our communities, and we must fight it.” To view the full text of the letter, please click here.
04.15.2016	Washington, DC - (Friday, April 15, 2016) - Today, Representatives, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ami Bera, and Michelle Lujan Grisham addressed the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to reinforce the importance of their efforts to reduce financial barriers to vaccine access in the Medicare Part D program. CMS released the 2017 Medicare Advantage and Part D Advance Notice and Draft Call Letter on February 19, 2016, which includes proposed updates to Part D plans and plans serving dual-eligible beneficiaries. In the draft, CMS states the need to set cost-sharing at $0 for dedicated vaccine tiers and for Select Care/Select Diabetes Drug tiers that contain vaccine products. CMS encourages Part D sponsors to offer $0 or low cost-sharing for vaccines. Specifically, disparities in coverage have been identified for a number of vaccines, including pneumococcal, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, herpes zoster (shingles), influenza, human papillomavirus (HPV) and the tetanus/pertussis/diphtheria. These disparities in adult immunization coverage have serious implications for our growing senior population in terms of disease impact and health outcomes. “As a nurse and lifelong health care advocate, I know the crucial importance of immunization and vaccines,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We tend to focus many of our efforts on vaccines for children, but many adults in minority and economically depressed communities are unable to get many of these immunizations. We must reduce the financial barriers to care for these populations. We have seen vaccines save lives in this country, and we have achieved great success in reducing disparities in vaccination coverage for children. We must do more to ensure that Medicare-eligible adults have access to these important preventive services.” “As a former Secretary of Health, I have first-hand experience with increasing access to safe and effective vaccines,” Rep. Lujan Grisham said. “I know the impact these immunizations can have on vulnerable populations. I also know that many seniors have limited and fixed incomes, which forces them to choose other priorities over preventative care. I urge the administration to do everything possible to ensure seniors have access to vaccines as part of their Medicare coverage.” “As a doctor and former chief medical officer of Sacramento County, I know the scientific evidence is irrefutable: vaccines save lives and are among the most important medical advancements in our lifetimes,” said Congressman Bera. “It’s critical that families understand the need for people of all ages to get vaccinated, as well as the potential dangers unvaccinated individuals face. Seniors are no different, and the administration should ensure that they have the resources and access to vaccines that they need.” View the full letter here:
04.07.2016	Congresswoman Johnson congratulates district 30 winner Alfredo Osorio Dallas, TX - (Thursday, April 7, 2016) - Congresswoman Johnson held an event to honor the winner and participants of the Texas District 30 Congressional App Challenge (CAC). This year’s winner is a 9th grade student from the Barack Obama Male Leadership Academy, Alfredo Osorio. Alfredo won the competition with the telephone app “Whack-A-Diglett.” The Congressional App Challenge is intended to encourage high school students to cultivate entrepreneurial skills, learn programming concepts, and gain more exposure to STEM-based fields. Across the country, in every congressional district, high school students design and build functional mobile apps and games for the CAC. “To see what these students are able to do and create when given the resources is amazing,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The passion for coding and creating new technology that these students have demonstrated is exactly what the Congressional App Challenge was designed to do. To remain competitive on the world’s stage, the United States must continue to foster this level interest in STEM fields. I want to congratulate Alfredo Osorio for winning this challenge, and I hope to see even more students engaged for next year’s app challenge.” ###
04.06.2016	Congresswoman Johnson leads a business roundtable discussion with U.S. Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker(l), Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings (far left) and several local business leaders Dallas, TX - (Wednesday, April 6, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted U.S. Secretary of Commerce, Penny Pritzker, and local business leaders for another installment of her business roundtable series. Congresswoman Johnson hosts the “Eddie Bernice Johnson Business Roundtable Series” as informational meetings that connect small and large business owners in North Texas with officials from various federal agencies with the goal of creating lasting business relationships and increasing awareness of federal programs, grants, and services that support businesses and business owners. This roundtable meeting was attended by Mayor Mike Rawlings and local Dallas business leaders, including executives from Mary Kay, Texas Instruments, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and several other local companies. During the discussion, Secretary Pritzker shared valuable insight into the programs and opportunities put forth by the President’s administration that are designed to help increase America’s manufacturing base. A large portion of the discussion focused on the benefits of trade and globalization for local businesses and job markets. “Representative Johnson has been a great friend to the administration as a member of Congress,” said Secretary Pritzker. “We will continue to work diligently with Congresswoman Johnson to ensure that our trade policies work for our country and its citizen.” Congresswoman Johnson highlighted the opportunities that globalization and fair trade would bring to Texas. She concluded the meeting by stating: “it is important to me that business owners in North Texas have the opportunity to benefit from free and fair trade and to become true benefactors from this emerging global economy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Trade creates jobs. International trade is a major engine, of not only America’s economy, but of the Texas economy. It is imperative that we take the necessary steps to balance the playing field by establishing rules to enhance fairness without geographical limitations, encourage innovation and improve consumer value in the global commerce ecosystem.” ###
04.04.2016	Washington, DC - (Monday, April 4, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson applauded the unanimous Supreme Court decision in “Evenwel vs Abbott.” The court issued a unanimous decision affirming the state’s right to use total population as its method for apportioning electoral districts. “This morning’s ruling marks a victory for the people of Texas and affirms the constitutional principle of “one person, one vote,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Texas, like all other states in the Union uses total population numbers from the census to draw its legislative districts. But, because of Texas’ ugly practice of voter suppression, it has become a battleground, ripe for historic and unprecedented attacks against longstanding democratic principles. Since the passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, the Supreme Court has upheld the fundamental doctrine of ‘one person, one vote.’ In Evenwel, advocacy groups attempted to weaken the political strength of urban voters by excluding children, prison inmates, and ex-offenders from political consideration. Today, the Supreme Court rightfully upheld the state’s right to account for its total population when determining the size of its districts. Today’s decision is just the first step in ensuring that every person, whether they are eligible to vote or not, receives equal and adequate representation. As an elected official, it is my job to represent every person, including children and those individuals who are fighting to reintegrate into society after serving their debts for past criminal actions. That right also extends to every productive, hopeful immigrant who is working hard to build a better life for themselves and their families. Elected officials represent the people in their districts, not just the voters. The Supreme Court sent a strong, unified message to conservative groups who are attempting to rig democracy by upending every state’s electoral map and shift power away from heavily populated areas.” ###
04.01.2016	Washington, DC - (Friday, April 1, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined a bipartisan group of 44 current and former Senators and 164 current and former House members from 38 states as well as the District of Columbia in filing an amicus brief in support of the Obama administration’s historic ‘Clean Power Plan’ (CPP). The CPP will reduce carbon pollution and address climate change, save consumers $155 billion by 2030, create jobs, and prevent 90,000 childhood asthma attacks through 2030‎. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit is considering a challenge to the rule in West Virginia et al. v. Environmental Protection Agency. The full text of the amicus brief filed today can be found here and a full list of the 208 current and former members of Congress that signed can be found below. The amicus brief argues that the Clean Power Plan rule is consistent with the text, structure, and legislative history of the Clean Air Act (CAA). Further, it argues that the rule is consistent with the goal of the CAA to “protect the Nation’s air resources so as to promote the public health and welfare and the productive capacity of its population.” Indeed, according to the brief, the Supreme Court has already affirmed that the EPA has clear authority to combat carbon pollution and regulate greenhouse gasses under Massachusetts v. EPA and American Electric Power v. Connecticut. While Republicans in Congress continue to refuse to acknowledge the existence of climate change and do the bidding of special interests who seek to stop action on climate change, a bipartisan group of current and former members of Congress as well as a broad coalition that includes legal experts, environmental groups, states and cities, and businesses including energy companies recognize the necessity and legality of the CPP, which will protect public health, and grow the clean energy economy of the future. A failure to act on climate change will also lead to more frequent extreme weather – from more severe droughts and wildfires in the west, to rising sea levels and more powerful hurricanes along our coastlines. Full list of the 208 current and former members of Congress that signed the amicus brief filed today: Senators Tammy Baldwin (D-WI), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Benjamin Cardin (D-MD), Thomas Carper (D-DE), Bob Casey (D-PA), Chris Coons (D-DE), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Al Franken (D-MN), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY), Martin Heinrich (D-NM), Mazie K. Hirono, (D-HI), Tim Kaine (D-VA), Angus King (I-ME), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Edward Markey (D-MA), Robert Menendez (D-NJ), Jeff Merkley (D-OR), Patty Murray (D-WA), Gary Peters (D-MI), Jack Reed (D-RI), Harry Reid (D-NV), Bernard Sanders (I-VT), Brian Schatz (D-HI), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), Mark Warner (D-VA), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Ron Wyden (D-OR). The bipartisan group of former Senators that signed the brief include: Senators George J. Mitchell (D-ME), Carl Levin (D-MI), David Durenberger (R-MN), Joseph I. Lieberman (I-CT), Timothy E. Wirth (D-CO), Thomas A. Daschle (D-SD), J. Robert Kerrey (D-NE) and Tom Harkin (D-IA). Representatives Alma S. Adams (D-NC), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Xavier Becerra (D-CA), Ami Bera (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer Jr. (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), Robert A. Brady (D-PA), Corrine Brown (D-FL), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), G. K. Butterfield (D-NC), Lois Capps (D-CA), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), John C. Carney, Jr. (D-DE), André Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Joaquin Castro (D-TX), Judy Chu (D-CA), David N. Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine M. Clark (D-MA), Emanuel Cleaver, II (D-MO), James E. Clyburn (D-SC), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), Danny K. Davis (D-IL), Susan A. Davis (D-CA), Peter A. DeFazio (D-OR), Diana L. DeGette (D-CO), John K. Delaney (D-MD), Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan K. DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Theodore E. Deutch (D-FL), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Michael F. Doyle (D-PA), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Sam Farr (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Lois Frankel (D-FL), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Alan Grayson (D-FL), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Luis V. Gutiérrez (D-IL), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Jim Himes (D-CT), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr. (D-GA), William R. Keating (D-MA), Robin L. Kelly (D-IL), Joseph P. Kennedy, III (D-MA), Daniel T. Kildee (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), James R. Langevin (D-RI), John B. Larson (D-CT), Brenda L. Lawrence (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sander Levin (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Daniel Lipinski (D-IL), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), Ben Ray Luján (D-NM), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Stephen F. Lynch (D-MA), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McDermott (D-WA), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Patrick E. Murphy (D-PA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Grace F. Napolitano (D-CA), Richard E. Neal (D-MA), Donald Norcross (D-NJ), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Donald M. Payne, Jr. (D-NJ), Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Scott H. Peters (D-CA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Jared Polis (D-CO), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Kathleen M. Rice (D-NY), Cedric L. Richmond (D-LA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Bobby L. Rush (D-IL), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Linda T. Sánchez (D-CA), Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), John P. Sarbanes (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam B. Schiff (D-CA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Brad Sherman (D-CA), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Adam Smith (D-WA), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takai (D-HI), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Dina Titus (D-NV), Paul D. Tonko (D-NY), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL), and John Yarmuth (D-KY). The bipartisan group of former House members that signed the brief include: Representatives Sherwood Boehlert (R-NY), Tom Downey (D-NY), Bill Hughes (D-NJ), George Miller (D-CA), Jim Moran (D-VA), Milton “Bob” Carr (D-MI) and Henry A. Waxman (D-CA). ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.31.2016	Dallas, TX - (Thursday, March 31, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of Cesar Chavez National Holiday. “Today we honor Cesar Chavez, one of America’s greatest civil rights leaders of the past century,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “His selfless dedication to farm workers’ rights, economic justice, civil rights, environmental justice, peace, nonviolence, and empowerment of the poor left a transcendent legacy that continues to inspire generations of Americans and workers around the globe. Cesar Chavez broke so many barriers in this country through peaceful protests, boycotting and fasting in the face of immeasurable odds as he took on the policies and practices of some of the most powerful businesses and industries.” “Mr. Chavez was a champion for Latinos throughout the nation. He led a movement that resulted in major gains for the Latino-American community at a time when so many immigrants and Latino-American citizens were being mistreated and exploited in the agriculture business. Mr. Chavez made history by becoming the first Latino to be honored with a national holiday. His legacy as a leader in the fight against racism is best summed up in his own words encouraging racial and cultural tolerance: “Preservation of one's own culture does not require contempt or disrespect for other cultures.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.24.2016	Washington D.C. - (Wednesday, March 23, 2016) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in recognition of the sixth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law: “In the six years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, the country, including the State of Texas, has taken giant steps to ensure that every American has access to healthcare. The ACA has provided coverage to more than 20 million Americans who were previously uninsured. Even though my home state of Texas did not expand Medicaid, 10.6 million Texans with pre-existing medical conditions are now protected from coverage denial. Medicaid expansion would allow more than 1.1Million more Texans to gain coverage. The uninsured rate in Texas had decreased to 27 percent in 2013 to 22.3 percent in 2015 thanks to the Affordable Care Act. The ACA has eliminated out-of-pocket costs for more than 2.5 Million Medicare beneficiaries in Texas for preventive services like cancer screenings, bone-mass measurements, and annual physicals. It has also phased out the “donut hole” coverage gap for over 340,000 Medicare prescription drug beneficiaries in Texas, who have saved an average of $1,057 per beneficiary. After six years on the books, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act has improved the lives of millions of Americans; however, our work is not complete. We must push for Texas to expand the Medicaid so that more Texans can receive the same benefits that millions of Americans in Medicaid expansion states are receiving. Additional legislation and executive actions continue to advance the cause of effective, accountable and affordable health care. We now have a new funding pool for Community Health Centers to build, expand and operate health-care facilities in underserved communities. Health Center grantees in Texas served 1,177,501 patients in 2014 and received $601,842,500 through fiscal year 2015 under the health care law to offer a broader array of primary care services, extend their hours of operation, hire more providers, and renovate or build new clinical spaces. I will continue to work to ensure that the Affordable Care Act stays in place, despite the 63 votes House Republicans have put forth to dismantle it. I will also continue to work to make sure we are always looking to improve the law so that we can fulfill the generations-long struggle to make health care a right, not a privilege, for all Americans.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.23.2016	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and the Congressional delegation that went to Cuba Washington D.C - (Wednesday, March 23, 2016) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson traveled as part of the Presidential Delegation that accompanied President Obama on his historic visit to Cuba. Upon return, she issued the following statement: “I want to thank the President for inviting me to be a part of this historic delegation to Cuba. This was my third time visiting the country, but this trip marked a true turning point in the relationship between our two nations. During this trip, I had the chance to meet with so many leaders in both the Cuban and Cuban-American communities. I was able to see first-hand the strides the country has made since my last visit. I was overwhelmed by the outpouring of gratitude and appreciation the Cuban people showed us at every stop. Throughout the trip, American business leaders that accompanied us, Cuban officials we met with, and elected officials within our delegation were all encouraged by the future possibilities that will result from fostering a more productive relationship between the U.S. and Cuba. For years, Texas businesses, Cuban-Americans in my state and even Texas farmers have all been passionate advocates for the lifting of the trade embargo. As this new chapter in American-Cuban relations develops, the future of open trade between our countries offers numerous benefits for both American companies looking to do business in Cuba, and Cuban consumers looking to buy American goods. While we still have much to discuss, I am encouraged by the leadership our President has shown in opening and progressing the relationship with Cuba.” See & download more pictures from the trip here: https://bit.ly/1RmdMVK ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.07.2016	NASA Astronaut Tyler Hague, NASA’s Vanessa Wyche, University of Texas at Dallas’ Beth Keithley, and Congresswoman Johnson address the students about the importance of STEM. Dallas, TX - (Monday, March 7, 2016) – This morning, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the 13th installment of the University of Texas at Dallas’ “Eddie Bernice Johnson Math and Science Lecture Series” at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center in Dallas, Texas. This lecture series was started by the University of Texas at Dallas in an effort to expose Dallas-area high school students to career opportunities, and accomplished professionals in the disciplines of math and science. “We’re not here today just to get you out of class or entertain you for an hour,” Congresswoman Johnson told the gathered students. “We’ve come today with a particular request from each of you. We are seeking your commitment to Science and Math, because we need you. Our nation needs your talent and your brain power. We need students from your diverse backgrounds, unique life experiences and creative prowess to ensure that our nation remains globally competitive.” High school students at Townview were able to hear and learn from two of NASA’s bright and rising coming stars. Astronaut Tyler Hague, a member of 2013 NASA astronaut class, spoke to the students about his journey to becoming an astronaut and telling the students that they could follow him and others into the space program. "Your personal journey begins where you start, and each of you can go anywhere," said Astronaut Hague. "Dream big and don't give up." The keynote address was given by Vanessa Wyche, the Assistant Director of Technical and Management Integration for Johnson Space Center. She also shared her career journey with the students. Assistant Director Wyche explained why STEM is so integral for high school students and for the pursuit of careers in the future. "I decided that I wanted to pursue a STEM career when I went to college," said Vanessa E. Wyche. " I worked on the space shuttle and helped to assemble the space station. Our country needs the minds and talents of students such as you so that we can continue the exploration of space which is vital to our nation's future growth and development." ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.22.2016	Congresswoman Johnson addresses North Texas faith leaders at her 21st Annual Prayer Breakfast Dallas, TX - (Monday, February 22, 2016) – This morning, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 21st Annual Prayer Breakfast at the Music Hall in Fair Park. This year’s keynote address was given by the newly elected mayor of Houston, the Honorable Sylvester Turner. The 2016 theme of the prayer breakfast was “Victory in the Community: Winning Together as One.” "Prayer has carried me during the years that I have served in Congress," said Congresswoman Johnson during her remarks to the gathering of faith leaders. "I want to thank each of you for your prayers, and for what you do each day to assist the people of our community. We must continue to use forums like this one to pool our efforts to continue to help all those in need in North Texas." “I am mayor now, because people prayed for me,” Mayor Turner said during his keynote address. “We… are all Texans, regardless of our religious backgrounds. We must all come together to better serve our community, because together we win. We, as leaders in our communities, have to believe in our people. We have to not only pray for them but we must continue to fight for them. The changes and improvements we all seek for our communities can only come if we work together.” The breakfast was attended by more than 150 leaders from the North Texas faith community. Clergy members from the Jewish, Muslim, and Christian communities gathered for the breakfast. The event served as a time for all the various leaders to offer prayers for the citizens of North Texas and discuss ways that the believers of different faiths could collaborate to better serve the citizens of their communities. See and download pictures from the event: on.fb.me/1SOn6a7 ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.18.2016	Congresswoman Johnson answers questions from the seniors of W.W. Samuell High School in Dallas Dallas, TX - (Thursday, February 18, 2016) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was the special guest speaker for the Class of 2016 at Dallas ISD’s W.W. Samuell High School. The special assembly was to focus on education and preparing for life after high school. “Education is a lifelong process,” Congresswoman Johnson told the students of W.W. Samuell High School. “It's important that when you leave here, you are prepared for the next phase of your education, whether you choose to attend trade school or college. Remember this phrase 'deferred gratification.' That means you will often have to postpone what you want to do at a specific time in order to do what needs to be done to ensure that you receive a greater benefit in the future. Transcripts stay with you forever. There is no excuse for not achieving.” Congresswoman Johnson spoke about her journey through school and what pushed her to seek public office and shared insight into what her job entails. She concluded her presentation by inviting students to stand with her and share their post-graduation plans with their classmates. ###
02.12.2016	Washington, DC - (Friday, February 12, 2016) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted against legislation containing a controversial proposal to privatize our nation’s air traffic control (ATC) system during the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee markup of H.R. 4441, the Aviation Innovation, Reform, and Reauthorization (AIRR) Act. The measure was approved by a vote of 32 to 26, with only Republicans voting in favor of the bill. The AIRR Act, a six-year reauthorization of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), would remove the Air Traffic Organization that has served the flying public well for decades from the FAA’s control and would hand over responsibility to a private, not-for-profit board that is dominated by industry interests and businesses. “I have great reservations about the privatization of our air traffic control system,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I think it is irresponsible and potentially harmful to jeopardize the flying public by putting their safety in the hands of a private corporate board. Any major changes to our air traffic system, part of the biggest and most complex airspace in the world, must be met with extreme caution moving forward.” The Republican’s plan to privatize ATC would hand over a public asset worth tens of billions of dollars to a private corporation – for free. Privatizing air traffic control has both constitutional as well as national security and safety implications while creating new user fees that could ultimately result in increased costs for passengers. “When I look to other examples of partial privatization of public service, such as with the postal service, I see all of the damage that it caused. The privatization of the air traffic control system is yet another instance of gutting a critical public service to improve efficiency and streamline operations, with no evidence to support that claim. In fact, similar privatization initiatives have proven to result in decreased efficiency and inferior service to the American public.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.09.2016	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, February 9, 2016) - Today, the White House sent President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request to Congress. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the President’s 2017 budget request: “President Obama has released a budget today that charts a bold course for the future of America. His 2017 budget makes critical investments that not only make the country stronger today, but set the stage for a prosperous future. Many programs and initiatives that I have advocated for were included in the budget request. I was pleased to see that funding for many of the initiatives I have advocated for on behalf of the 30th Congressional District of Texas were included in the President’s budget request. I have worked hard for several months with the Federal Transit Administration to direct funds to DART’s Core Capacity project. As in prior years, the President’s budget will help ensure that the U.S. can compete in a 21st Century global economy and solidify America’s place as a scientific and technological leader. The investments in the full range of R&D and STEM initiatives, including advanced manufacturing research, prioritizing basic research, investing in clean transportation and civil space activities, as well as the commitments to education programs like Computer Science for All are truly ‘investments to help us meet our greatest challenges, not only for the year ahead, but for decades to come.” The President’s budget request makes several key investments that will grow the economy for all Americans. Some highlights include: Local Funding for DART: DART’s Core Capacity project to expand train platforms along the 28 Red and Blue line stations is aimed at accommodating larger train cars, which would expand capacity at these stations and reduce congestion along the DART system. Funding for Education: The budget provides, as part of America’s College Promise (ACP), grants to four-year Minority Serving Institutions to provide first-time low-income students, including community college transfers, with up to two years of college at zero or significantly reduced tuition. Expansion of STEM for opportunities: Complementing the mandatory Computer Science for All proposal, the Budget dedicates $100 million in discretionary funding at the Department of Education for Computer Science for All Development Grants to jumpstart the initiative by helping school districts, alone or in consortia, with other districts or States, execute ambitious computer science expansion efforts, particularly for traditionally under-represented students. Both the mandatory and discretionary proposal would also encourage states and districts to expand overall access to rigorous STEM coursework. Expanding Transportation Funding: Expands funding for the Transportation Innovation Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program from the current $500 million authorization to $1.25 billion per year. The TIGER Program is a vital discretionary grant program that provides federal funding for capital investments in state and local surface transportation projects. Approximately $32 billion per year over the next 10 years for new investments in a “clean transportation system” by refocusing federal investments, rewarding local and state governments for innovation, accelerating integration of new vehicle technologies, and enhancing safety. Strengthening Efforts to Help Poor Families Succeed: The budget includes funding for programs aimed at helping families and children in need: Strengthening Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Establishing an Emergency Aid and Service Connection Pilots ($2 billion). Cutting Taxes for Families: The budget triples the maximum Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) for families with children under age five. “The President has given Congress a strong budget that will continue to grow the economy and sets the course for America’s future. I hope to see my colleagues on both sides of the aisle put aside partisan politics to get this budget passed.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.09.2016	Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, February 9, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that President Obama has declared a major disaster for the State of Texas, triggering the eligibility of federal funds to help communities recover from the severe winter storms, tornadoes, straight-line winds, and flooding that occurred between December 26, 2015 and January 21, 2016. Congresswoman Johnson has been actively seeking this declaration in order to shepherd federal resources to the victims of the devastating natural disasters in and around Dallas County. “Today, President Obama issued a major disaster declaration for the storms our area faced in December 2015 and January 2016,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This is welcomed news for the many families, businesses, and municipalities still recovering from the recent devastation. This declaration opens up a host of resources for emergency work and the repair of facilities that were damaged by the disaster. I have been working hard with the administration to get this disaster declaration declared to assist Dallas and the surrounding counties that were affected by these storms and tornadoes. Over the next few weeks, the Texas Division of Emergency Management – in conjunction with FEMA – will be meeting with local officials to walk them through the process of applying and receiving disaster funds and assistance.” Letter from Congresswoman Johnson to the President seeking Federal Disaster Declaration sent the same day as Governor’s request: https://1.usa.gov/1Q61gIB The next steps in the process of receiving FEMA funds: https://1.usa.gov/1Q7M4Rk ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC - (Friday, February 5, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson reacted to the release of the National Education Association’s (NEA) Annual Legislative Report Card for the first session of the 114th Congress: “I am honored to have received an ‘A’ from the National Education Association. Education is one my highest priorities; and I am committed to supporting policies that empower students and teachers across our country. In order to train a workforce that is prepared for a global economy, it is imperative that we invest in the public education system. Schools have to be properly-funded and America’s children deserve to be educated in an environment that cultivates their creativity and innovation.” The NEA’s report card analyzes members’ votes on key legislation affecting education during the first session of the 114th Congress. They considered issues including, but not limited to, K-12 education policy, education funding, and the federal budget. The highlight piece of legislation passed during the first session of this Congress was the Every Students Succeeds Act, a bill that ensures high standards in our nation’s public schools, maintains accountability for schools to aid struggling students, empowers state and local leaders with proper resources to improve their schools, reduces unnecessary and ineffective testing, and increases the access to pre-school. Congresswoman Johnson has established a reputation for education advocacy and has received the grade of ‘A’ on the National Education Association’s Annual Legislative Report Card for the 113th, 112th, 111th, and 110th Congresses.
02.02.2016	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, February 2, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson served as the host for a Congressional briefing entitled “Lessons from the Balkans: A Model for Confronting Murderous Regimes.” This event was supported by The Advisory Council for Bosnia and Herzegovina and featured Julian Borger, the World Affairs Editor at the Guardian. Julian Borger has been a correspondent in the United States, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, and the Balkans where he covered both the Bosnian and Kosovo wars. His recently published book, The Butcher’s Trail: How the Search for Balkan War Criminals Became the World’s Most Successful Manhunt, explores one of the largest-scale and most successful international manhunts in history, and tells the story of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY). The ICTY indicted the worst war criminals Europe had seen since the Nazi era, and all 161 suspects on its list were ultimately accounted for with the help of the special forces of the United States, UK, France, Germany, and the Netherlands. In this briefing, Mr. Borger shared his extensive knowledge about the tragedies that the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina suffered during the wars. In this violent time between 1992 and 1995, 100,000 people were killed; over 2 million people were displaced, and between 20,000 to 50,000 Bosniak women and girls were victims of sexual violence. Mr. Borger told the breathtaking stories of former government officials who went into hiding after committing mass atrocities before finally being captured and tried by The Hague International Court of Justice. Mr. Borger highlighted the fact that lessons from this historic multinational manhunt have set a precedent for confronting murderous regimes and punishing international war criminals. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson is the co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Bosnia, a legislative group committed to improving the lives of Bosnian Americans, improving relations between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and recognizing the genocide performed against Bosnians between 1992 and 1995. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.01.2016	Dallas, TX - (Monday, February 1, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following state in recognition of Black History Month: “Today, our nation begins a month-long celebration of Black History Month. During this month, we take the time to recognize and celebrate the countless contributions African-Americans have made throughout our nation’s history. From the first slave ships that brought Africans to these shores to the election of the first African-American President, Black history is interwoven into the very fabric of our nation’s story. The theme of Black History Month this year is ‘Hallowed Grounds: Sites of African American Memories,’ which encourages us to not just recognize those that made history, but to remember and preserve the places where significant events in Black History occurred. This month, I will be focusing celebrating Black History during several events and through various initiatives in the 30th congressional district. I’ll be visiting several schools to speak to students. I’ll be speaking at Black History programs with Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., Greater Golden Gate Baptist Church, and several other events. While we officially celebrate Black History Month during the month of February, we must continue to recognize the contributions that African-Americans have made throughout the year. After overcoming the horrors of slavery, segregation, Jim Crow, and mass incarceration, African-Americans have continued to be an integral piece to American puzzle. As a country, we continue to move forward and strive for equal opportunity and justice for all.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.29.2016	Congresswoman Johnson (center) is joined by Secretary Burwell (left), County Judge Clay Jenkins (right) and other local officials. Dallas, TX - (Friday, January 29, 2016) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia M. Burwell and other elected officials at the Community Council of Greater Dallas to enroll citizens in health coverage before the January 31st enrollment deadline. With only three days remaining until the open enrollment period ends, Secretary Burwell visited Dallas to encourage local citizens to enroll in healthcare coverage for 2016. “I want to thank the Health and Human Services Secretary, Sylvia Burwell, for taking the time to visit Dallas and our healthcare enrollment centers,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud of the work our local navigators are doing to sign up citizens for healthcare. I am encouraged to see both English and Spanish speaking navigators on site to assist all the families here secure the healthcare coverage they need. Healthcare coverage is so essential for all of our citizens and their families. It helps to ease the financial burden so many families suffer when a medical crisis hits, often unexpectedly. I want to encourage all my constituents to sign up for coverage before Sunday’s deadline and to let their friends and families know to sign up as well.” Congresswoman Johnson and Secretary Burwell were joined at the enrollment event by County Judge, Clay Jenkins and Dallas Mayor Pro Tem, Monica Alonzo. They all toured the facility and were able to speak with several local citizens. Secretary Burwell spoke on the importance of obtaining healthcare coverage and the penalties associated with those who do not sign up for coverage before the deadline.
01.17.2016	Dallas, TX - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, which is observed on Monday January 16, 2016. “Few Americans have left the lasting impact on our country like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King. He spearheaded a movement that changed the course of not only this Nation but the world. From leading sit-ins and marches in the South, to being awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, Dr. King’s life and lessons have been a source of inspiration for generations of Americans. Dr. King gave his life to end the injustices of segregation and Jim Crow laws. His life and leadership helped move America to fulfill the promise that all men were truly created equal under the law, regardless of their race, religion, or income. On Monday, people across the country will honor Dr. King’s legacy by doing service projects in their local communities. This day of service furthers the legacy of peace, service, and inclusion that Dr. King left us with. I have been taking part in Martin Luther King activities, service projects, and celebrations all weekend. I was honored to serve as the Grand Marshal for the City of Lancaster’s Martin Luther King Day parade. My district staff will also be participating in a day of service by helping on the ground in Glen Heights in the wake of the recent tornadoes. More than fifty years after Dr. King helped bring about the Voting Rights Act, it is still as important today to fight for these same values. We must continue vigorously protect all Americans right to vote and prevent laws from limiting access to the ballot box. On this Martin Luther King Day, it is up to each of us to continue to stamp our racial injustice wherever it occurs and advocate for equality of opportunity and justice for all.”
01.13.2016	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, January 12, 2016) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. “Tonight President Barack Obama laid out a vision for the future of our nation during his final state of the union address. I applaud the spirit of inclusion and hope that the President shared tonight. He knows the resilience and determination of the American people. He also touched on four big questions our country faces as we seek to elect a new president. One of the biggest questions he asked was: how do we reignite that spirit of innovation? I applaud the President for keeping science, technology, and innovation at the forefront of his discussion. The President highlighted some of the great accomplishments this country has made in space exploration, scientific innovation, and medical research. As the ranking member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, I have always been a strong supporter and champion for innovation. I feel that it is one of the keys to America’s greatness and the President echoed that sentiment tonight during his speech. Coming from the state of the Texas, where we are leaders in energy, including renewable energy technology, I applaud this President and his administration’s commitment to pushing climate change to the front of international dialogue. He sees this as an opportunity to push for new technology, more renewable clean energy sources, and ultimately more jobs for Americans in this sector. He called for us to accelerate the transition from traditional fossil fuels to clean energy that will not only satisfy our growing energy needs, but also fight man-made climate change in the process. The President made a resounding call for our system to fix its politics and look to the future, in order to make sure representatives are truly in office for the people they serve. This requires moving money out of politics, and importantly, eliminating gerrymandering from our system. The President wisely said, "We have to end the practice of drawing our congressional districts so that politicians can pick their voters, and not the other way around.” As a Congresswoman who has been in office and seen the State of the Union speeches of three presidents, I can say this is the strongest and truest proposal to amend one of the uglier parts of our political process. Barack Obama’s presidency has represented the fulfillment of America’s promise that all people are truly created equal. I have been fortunate to serve by the side of this historic president to help him achieve some very lift goals in the seven years since his election. From the passing of universal healthcare, to closure of the Iraq war, to recovering from the worst economic recession since the great depression, President Obama has been a transformative figure. His leadership and grace have not only inspired millions of citizens in this country to strive for more, but it has also set an international example for the citizens of the world. Much like when the President came to office, he delivered his final State of the Union looking towards the future. His speech was not a laundry list of accomplishments, or political spin on partisan battles. It was a thoughtful and honest look at our great country, its successes, but most importantly, America’s future.”
01.05.2016	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, January 05, 2016) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to President Obama’s executive actions to reduce gun violence and make American communities safer. “Today President Barack Obama took a courageous and much-needed step to help curb America’s problem of gun violence,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The President has used his legal authority to issue executive actions that will strengthen gun safety laws in this country – without infringing on any law-abiding individual’s right to bear arms. The President’s decisive actions today will strengthen background checks, protect communities through better enforcement, improve mental health services, and fuel research to make guns safer.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make significant progress in the ongoing struggle to curb gun violence: Toughening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. Driving new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. “I will continue to support common sense gun laws that do not infringe on the rights of responsible gun owners,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is time for Congress and our Republican leadership to build on the President’s important steps to curb gun violence and allow gun safety legislation to be discussed and voted on. To start, Congress should pass the bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to strengthen background checks and close dangerous loopholes, so that criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill don’t have easy access to guns. The President has done his part – and now, Congress needs to finish the job.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.08.2015	Congresswoman Johnson speaks to the attendees of the conference Washington, DC - (Tuesday, December 8, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted “A World of Women for World Peace” for the fifteenth time in her congressional career. This year’s event included an expert panel on the Syrian Refugee Crisis and took place in the Rayburn Gold Room of the Rayburn House Office Building. During the conference, Congresswoman Johnson said, “Today’s conference, focusing on the Syrian Refugee Crisis, will allow us to build upon the past success of the “A World of Women for World Peace” initiative and help shape the dialogue as we welcome Syrian refugees into our communities. Though today’s discussion centers on the international community’s response, we must also think of what we can do domestically and locally. I am fully committed to welcoming Syrians into the Dallas community in any way I can. I sincerely hope that my colleagues will join me in tempering the hateful rhetoric and providing the necessary services for those displaced by war and conflict. Thank you to our expert panelists for providing such vital information to us today.” The expert panel consisted of: Manal Omar, the Acting Vice President for the Middle East and Africa at the United States Institute of Peace; Mona Yacoubian, Deputy Assistant Administrator for the Middle East at the United States Agency for International Development; Chiara Cardoletti-Carroll, Deputy Regional Representative of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees; Tim Eydelnant, Syrian Coordinator of the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration at the U.S. Department of State; and Ghada Mukdad, Founder of the Zain Foundation, Board Member of the Syrian Civil Coalition, and current Dallasite. The expert speakers widely agreed that the Syrian Refugee Crisis is colossal in scope—the biggest humanitarian crisis since World War II and the most expensive aid and resettlement process in the modern era. This panel addressed the nature of this crisis, including the plight of child refugees who lack access to education; the suffering of women who are forced into unwanted marriages or into practicing survival sex; the need for development in and respect for countries that host refugees; the need for a more uniformed response across Europe, as well as the complicated and escalating violence in Syria that causes these refugees to leave. Across the board, the panelists agreed that the international community, as a whole, needs to act swiftly and decisively to help these victims. Congresswoman Johnson began the “A World of Woman for World Peace” initiative in 2001 to recognize and empower women to facilitate peace-building, peacemaking, and peace-keeping activities across the world. Today's conference helps us to re-emphasize the necessity of peace and diplomacy across the globe. View pictures from the conference here: https://goo.gl/RXM223 ###
12.01.2015	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, December 1, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement recognizing the 60th anniversary of Rosa Parks’ refusal to give up her seat, a move that sparked the Montgomery bus boycott. “Sixty years ago today, Rosa Parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat to a white passenger on a public bus in Montgomery, Alabama. This single act unwittingly helped build the foundation for a nationwide movement to end the discriminatory policies of segregation. Since her heroic act, this country has come a long way in improving race relations and working towards granting all Americans equal rights and justice under the law. Rosa Parks’ powerful example has provided a transformative blueprint for civil rights movements around the world.” Congresswoman Johnson commemorated this anniversary by serving as the keynote speaker at Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) ceremony that installed two honorary plaques at DART’s Rosa Parks Plaza in Downtown Dallas. As part of the celebration, the front seat of more than 500 DART buses will be reserved today, in honor of the 60th anniversary. A sign will be displayed to remind all passengers of Rosa Parks’ decision to take a stand by taking a seat. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.18.2015	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, November 18, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Syrian refugee crisis: “As a result of horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, France and Beirut, Lebanon last week, many elected officials in the United States are demanding that we stop admitting refugees fleeing Syria. This rhetoric is disheartening and disappointing. We are facing a global refugee crisis that requires a global response. With 60 million people displaced, the United States must do its part to help protect and resettle vulnerable families and children who are fleeing violence and persecution.” “In Dallas, we have always shown our compassion to those who seek safety. I refuse to slam the door on a small fraction of the world’s Syrian refugees. In fact, 184 Syrian refugees have already been placed in Texas, and we will certainly welcome more. While we must continue to ensure that screening procedures are able to properly vet those seeking political asylum in this country, I refuse to turn my back on innocent people who are fleeing the atrocities in their homeland. Turning our back on those who fall victim to terror is certainly not the answer to defeating terrorism. Instead, we must show compassion by promoting peace and diplomacy.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.12.2015	Dallas, TX - (Thursday, November 12, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in light of changes in health insurance plans that will affect the local constituents and the provider-institutions. Earlier this month, several major insurance companies eliminated a number of their Affordable Care Act (ACA) marketplace plans, affecting patients across the state. Unfortunately, the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center will not be able to participate in any ACA plans during the 2016 as a result of the cancellation. UT Southwestern is actively negotiating with the insurance companies to come up with a solution. “As insurance companies narrow their networks across the country to reduce costs, hospitals and patients are left in the dust,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I urge my constituents to proactively seek alternatives, so that you and your families can receive the care you need in the unfortunate event that your insurance plan is no longer accepted at your hospital of choice. Unfortunately, UT Southwestern is one of many hospitals in this position.” Patients with ACA coverage are able to continue seeing providers at UT Southwestern, but they will be considered out-of-network providers and costs will be incurred. Patients have the option of seeing providers at Parkland Health and Hospital System, which will be considered an in-network provider due to their partnership ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.11.2015	Dallas, TX - (Wednesday, November 11, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson participated in the grant presentation to Cedar Valley College from the U. S. Department of Education’s Predominantly Black Institutions (PBI) program. The college will receive $2,452,567 over the next five years to focus on Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) programs. Congresswoman Johnson presented the first installment of the PBI grant to Cedar Valley College at a press conference today in the college’s state-of-the art Math, Science & Allied Health Building. “STEM Education is an issue I care deeply about, and one that I take very seriously,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “There is a very real possibility that we will lose our competitive edge and our children will no longer have the opportunities that we had, if we do not remain committed to investing in and improving STEM education in this country. I am encouraged by the work Cedar Valley College and entire Dallas County Community College District is doing to get African-American men involved and trained in the STEM fields. This grant will go a long way to continue to support and enhance their efforts in educating African-American men for 21st century careers.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.11.2015	Dallas, TX - (Wednesday, November 11, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition and in honor of Veterans Day: “Veterans Day is a time to show our gratitude to our men and women in uniform for their selfless service. We salute those who have made the ultimate sacrifice and remember those who have served our country around the world in the name of freedom and democracy. We must not limit our gratitude for our veterans to just one calendar day a year. We have an obligation to care for service members when they’re abroad and when they come home. Our veterans face rising conflicts across the globe and mounting issues when they return home. Time and time again, our veterans struggle to navigate the transition into civilian life. As a former Chief Psychiatric Nurse for the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the daughter of a veteran, I have seen firsthand the troubles facing some veterans today. All veterans deserve fair employment, access to quality healthcare and affordable housing. After fighting for our nation overseas, no veteran should have to fight for a job at home. The President, I and my colleagues in Congress have taken steps to help our men and women in uniform find good-paying jobs – ranging from providing tax credits for businesses that hire veterans to creating a Veterans Job Corps that helps veterans find pathways to work.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.02.2015	Dallas, TX - (Monday, November 02, 2015) - On November 1, 2015, the 45-day Open Enrollment for health insurance began. During this period, families and individuals can sign up for quality healthcare through Healthcare.gov. Congresswoman Johnson is bringing attention to the open enrollment period and encouraging the more than 6 million uninsured Texans to sign up for coverage. Those without health insurance can enroll through Healthcare.gov, while current marketplace consumers can compare their plans with other available options in their geographic area on the same website. Open enrollment runs from November 1 through December 15, with coverage beginning on January 1, 2016. Since 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) has helped millions of people access health insurance. Because we now have a health insurance exchange that is transparent and functional, individuals, families, and small business owners are able to shop among public and private insurers, ensuring both competition among providers and affordability for consumers. These healthcare options provide the opportunity for all Americans to receive quality health insurance. The Arlington Enrollment Center, located at 2000 East Lamar Boulevard in Arlington, Texas, provides free enrollment assistance from now until the end of January, either by phone or in person. Additionally, Healthcare.gov can provide enrollment opportunities as well as healthcare cost comparisons for various plans. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.28.2015	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, October 28, 2015) - Last night, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted with 312 other Democratic and Republican Members in the House to pass H.R. 597, a bipartisan bill to reauthorize the job-creating Export-Import Bank. The Export-Import Bank helps ensure that American small businesses and manufacturers are competing on a level playing field in the global marketplace. At absolutely no cost to taxpayers, the bank directly supported 164,000 American export-related jobs in the last year alone, and has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007 including supporting 3,076 jobs in the 30th Congressional district of Texas alone. “After nearly four months of inaction, I was proud to vote on a bipartisan reauthorization of the Export-Import bank,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Export-Import bank is vital in supporting more than 152,000 jobs in the state of Texas. In my district alone, more than 3,000 jobs that are supported by the bank were put in jeopardy when the charter expired. Small businesses and manufactures were prevented from making the necessary investments needed to export their products overseas and create more jobs here in America.” On October 9, after months of inaction by House Republican leaders, Congresswoman Johnson along with the Congressional Black Caucus and 175 Democrats and 42 Republicans took historic action and signed a discharge petition to force the House Republican leadership to bring H.R. 597 reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank to a vote which occurred on October 28. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.23.2015	Washington, DC - (Friday, October 23, 2015) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the successful committee mark-up of H.R. 3763, the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRRA). “The successful completion of the committee mark-up of this legislation is an important step for the future of surface transportation programs across the country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This bill will extend Highway Trust Fund authority for six years, which will in turn give states and localities the certainty they need when planning and executing transportation projects.” The Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 provides $325 billion in contract authority from the Highway Trust Fund over six years for highway, transit, and highway safety programs. Congresswoman Johnson was able to include an important amendment in this legislation. She introduced an amendment that would limit the Department of Transportation’s ability to redistribute unallocated TIFIA funds without first considering the impact on qualified projects. As ranking member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology she was also able to get language approved that expanded University Transportation Center (UTC) outreach activities to women and underrepresented populations and for including minority institutions in consideration for all UTC grants. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.21.2015	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, October 21, 2015) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding the yesterday’s congressional briefing in conjunction with the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) and the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) on Capitol Hill: “As the nation continues to realize the tragic consequences of a deficient mental health care system, NIMH has been diligently searching for solutions for patients with schizophrenia. Innovative programs and key research at NIMH are being utilized across the country to transition from a crisis-centered model to an approached focused on early psychiatric intervention. The results clearly demonstrate that patients not only benefit from these programs, but they are more likely to recover and live a highly fulfilling life.” The briefing presented results from the NIMH-funded Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia Episode (RAISE) study and called for our nation to move from a crisis-driven mental health system to an early response system. Researchers, physicians, and patients involved in the RAISE program shared their findings and stories on the benefits of treating patients through a coordinated array of evidence-based specialty care early in the course of their illnesses. Given the current state of our mental health care system, early preventative care is critical to ensure that our population’s mental health needs are met and that future tragedies are avoided. The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act, a bi-partisan bill co-sponsored by Congresswoman Johnson and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA), will allow effective preventative care like RAISE to be implemented in communities across the country.
10.07.2015	Dallas, TX - (Wednesday, October 7, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the Director General of U.S. Foreign Commercial Service and Assistant Secretary for Global Markets, Arun Kumar, for an informative roundtable discussion with several local Dallas business leaders. The roundtable was a continuation of a series of events Congresswoman Johnson has held over the last few years aimed at bringing together local business owners and key federal and state officials to help facilitate economic growth in the Dallas area. “This forum is important,” said Pettis Norman, a Dallas business owner. “We have to address the problems of minority communities by getting involved. That is why I am here today, and I appreciate greatly the invitation that Congresswoman Johnson extended to my company and others. She is always there for us.” Assistant Secretary Kumar was able to share detailed insight regarding programs and initiatives within the Department of Commerce to assist local businesses with expanding beyond America’s borders. A central topic of the discussion was the recent Trans-Pacific Partnership and other free trade agreements. Assistant Secretary Kumar provided valuable insight as to where TPP stands and the many ways it seeks to help and enhance businesses is Texas and across America. “I am delighted to work with Congresswoman Johnson in an effort to assist small and moderate- sized business owners as they begin to compete in global markets,” said Assistant Secretary Arun Kumar. “We want to find out from you what we need to do to ensure that you participate in the global economy that the Obama administration has worked towards creating,” Kumar said. “It is one in which your companies and the American workers will prevail.” ###
09.30.2015	Washington, DC - (Wednesday, September 30, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted to pass a 10-week continuing resolution that will keep the federal government funded until December 11, 2015. This stop-gap measure included funding for Planned Parenthood and was supported by all the Democrats in the House of Representatives. Upon the passage of this resolution, Congresswoman Johnson made the following statement: “While I am pleased that we avoided a complete shutdown of the federal government that would have cost our economy billions of dollars as it did in 2013, these recurring short-term funding measures are not cause for celebration. My Republican colleagues are bracing to put this country through another unnecessary crisis in December. This is unacceptable. We must have a long-term budget solution that allows for all the government agencies, employees, and contractors to continue to work and be compensated for their dedicated service to the citizens of America. The Republican leadership in Congress must stop jumping from man-made crisis to man-made crisis. We are putting our economy and the wellbeing of this country at unnecessary risk. Enough is enough.”
09.30.2015	Washington, DC - (Tuesday, September 29, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson echoed the recent warnings issued by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) regarding the resurgence of a scam targeting businesses that own telephone landlines. The FCC published the following warning directed to business owners on its website: “You receive a call at your office from someone claiming to be a telephone company employee investigating technical problems with your line, or checking up on calls supposedly placed to other states or countries from your line. The caller asks you to aid the investigation by either dialing 90# or transferring him/her to an outside line before hanging up the telephone receiver. By doing this, you may be enabling the caller to place calls that are billed to your office telephone number.” The FCC also wants citizens to know that: Telephone company employees checking for technical and other types of telephone service or billing problems would not call and ask a subscriber to dial a specific series of numbers before hanging up the telephone receiver. Telephone company employees would not request subscribers to connect the caller to an outside line before hanging up the receiver. These types of calls are made to trick subscribers into taking actions that will enable the caller to place fraudulent calls. This scam only works if your telephone is served by a private branch exchange (PBX) or private automatic branch exchange (PABX).
09.29.2015	Dallas, TX - (Tuesday, September 29, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson celebrated Dallas’s own Harry Stone Montessori Academy on being named one of the 355 National Blue Ribbon Schools by the U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan. Schools awarded with the National Blue Ribbon are recognized for their comprehensive academic excellence and the progress the schools make in closing the achievement gaps among students of all ethnicities and socio -economic backgrounds. The National Blue Ribbon Schools Program has been recognizing the academic excellence of public and private elementary, middle, and high schools for 33 years. Representatives from Harry Stone Montessori Academy will be invited to be formally recognized at the White House on November 9, 2015. “It is a pleasure to see that the hard work and dedication of the teachers, administrators, staff, and parents of Harry Stone are being recognized with the National Blue Ribbon Award,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This prestigious award is only granted to schools that achieve the highest standards of learning and are making significant improvements in educating all of our children. The example of Harry Stone Montessori shows that we can all work to close the achievement gap in this country through the focus of our educators and the support of the parents and the community.”
09.25.2015	Dallas, TX - (Friday, September 25, 2015) - Today, the 4th Annual Dallas Hunger Summit was held in Dallas by the Dallas Coalition for Hunger Solutions (DCHA). Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson serves as the chair of the Dallas Coalition for Hunger Solutions whose mission is to empower and educate residents who lack access to healthy food. The DCHA is a coalition of individuals and organizations that focus on the priorities of eliminating hunger in the child and elderly populations, as well as expand the utilization of urban agriculture and the faith community to find hunger solutions. This year’s summit focused on the 472,000 people in Dallas County that are “food insecure” and was aimed at identifying strategies and initiatives that can help make a significant impact in lowering this number. Due to votes in the House of Representatives, the Congresswoman was not able to attend the summit in person this year; however, Congresswoman Johnson did submit a Congressional Record Statement recognizing the DCHA Hunger Summit. In the Statement, she laid out several accomplishments that have been achieved since last year’s summit. The congressional record statement describes several of the DCHA past year’s successes. “The Child Hunger Action Team continued to partner with DISD to expand the number of schools that served suppers during afterschool programs – growing participation from 28 in 2013 to over 160 today. Second, the Faith Community Action Team organized 15 congregations and ministries to jointly provide vegetable gardens to 190 families across the County, many of them growing their own food for the very first time. Third, the Senior Hunger Action Team has begun implementing collaborative pilot initiatives to increase the number of seniors with access to SNAP benefits and to increase participation in senior congregate meal programs.” Bringing an end to hunger in Dallas and throughout the state of Texas as a whole has long been a goal of Congresswoman Johnson. She will continue to work to bring people and organizations together to combat the hunger crisis within her city and throughout the state of Texas.
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Thursday, July 30th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the creation of Medicare and Medicaid on July 30th, 1965: “50 years ago today, President Lyndon Baines Johnson signed Medicare and Medicaid into law. In doing so, this critical legislation opened doors for millions of elderly, disabled, and low income Americans. Programs covered under Medicare and Medicaid have acted as cornerstones within the American healthcare system by providing access to quality services and relieving the economic burden of millions of low-income families. Today, 25.4% of District 30 residents receive Medicaid, while another 11.7% receive coverage through Medicare. Without these vital programs, thousands of Texans would be without access to proper healthcare. Though in recent years, significant progress has been made to expand access to quality affordable healthcare through the passage of the Affordable Care Act, I will continue to advocate for improving benefits and lowering the costs of healthcare for all Americans.” ###
08.19.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Wednesday, August 19th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Louis “Lou” Stokes: “Today, as I mourn the passing of my good friend and mentor, Congressman Louis Stokes, I celebrate the legacy of one of the most iconic public servants whose 30 years of service transformed the halls of Congress. He was dedicated to expanding political and economic opportunities for all Americans, and he was determined to transcend the culture of discrimination and injustice. As an attorney, he argued one of the most renowned cases in the history of the U.S. Supreme Court, Terry v. Ohio, which established the constitutional standard of “reasonable suspicion” for stop and frisk searches. During his tenure in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Stokes was the first black chairperson of the House Intelligence Committee; he served as chairman of the House Ethics Committee and was one of the most influential members of the House Appropriations Committee. As a founding member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Lou Stokes engineered a vehicle that would foster collaboration and strategic alliances for generations. Because of his visionary leadership, we all benefit from an organization powerful enough to engage, empower and excite generations of African-American leaders, who influence the political landscape, impact the outcome of elections and serve as strong voices for those weakened by poverty, discrimination and a lack of opportunity. I am proud and honored to have had the privilege of serving with Congressman Stokes. I was inspired by his intelligence, preparation, dignity, generosity and forward-thinking. He leaves behind a legacy that inspires, not only those who served with him, but a generation of future leaders. I am grateful for his vision, his integrity and his grace.” #### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
08.19.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Wednesday, August 19th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was presented with the “Lifetime Infrastructure Champion Award” at the Irving Transportation & Water Summit, an event hosted by the City of Irving. The Summit was attended by approximately 300 state officials, infrastructure administrators, business leaders and private citizens from throughout the state of Texas. “North Texas has become a model for infrastructure and transportation in our country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I learned early in my congressional career the importance of a strong infrastructure and transportation system. I know how much, not only the people in District 30, but those throughout the state of Texas, rely on well-maintained highways and bridges. I also know how important it is for the state of Texas to meet the demands of businesses and residents, who rely on various modes of transportation. As a member of Congress, I will continue to fight for the funding required to meet the needs of the people of Texas. Good highways lead to good jobs for people, and better jobs lead to a better economy for Texas.” During the presentation of the award, Michael Morris, the Director of Transportation for the North Central Texas Council of Governments noted: “Congresswoman Johnson has done more to promote quality transportation and infrastructure than anyone else in North Texas…The work of Congresswoman Johnson has improved the lives of all people who reside in North Texas. Our quality of life exists because of her efforts.” The DFW Metropolitan Area is the largest regional economy in Texas, representing roughly 25 percent of the State’s economy. By the year 2025, the region is expected to attract nearly three million new residents and over two million new jobs. Congresswoman Johnson emphasized that securing adequate transportation funding to ensure the North Texas region will be able to sustain its economic growth will remain a top priority. Congresswoman Johnson has been a champion for Texans throughout her distinguished career as a Member of Congress. Since her election to Congress in 1992, she has been widely recognized in Washington as a skillful and effective legislator. Because of her seniority in the U.S. Congress, she has been able to leverage her experience to benefit the 30th Congressional District. She is the senior Texan on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and has fought hard to ensure that North Texas’ transportation system is responsive to all residents. She has championed the development of an efficient and integrated transportation (multimodal, intermodal, pedestrian, and bicycle) system that is critical in maintaining the region’s quality of life and economic vitality. #### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
08.14.2015	DALLAS, TX – (Friday, August 14th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement celebrating the 80th anniversary of the Social Security Act: “Today marks the 80th anniversary of the Social Security Act, signed into law on August 14th, 1935, by Franklin Delano Roosevelt. This piece of legislation allows countless Americans to enjoy the financial security they deserve after decades of hard work. Since the bill was signed into law, Social Security has become an integral component our domestic economy and the most effective poverty prevention program for Americans aged 65 or older. Like other Americans, District 30 residents depend upon their Social Security benefits to support themselves during retirement. Social Security also provides a financial safety net for individuals with disabilities and dependant survivors of wage earners. It is important that we continue the fight to prevent cuts to Social Security benefits. It is even more important that lawmakers on both sides of aisle plan for America’s future by expanding Social Security benefits, such as the Cost of Living Adjustment and the associated healthcare benefits. As we celebrate the 80th anniversary of the Social Security Act, let’s work together to renew our commitment to strengthen Social Security programs and secure the future for all Americans.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
08.11.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Tuesday, August 11th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the 9th Annual Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue with participants from the Aga Khan Council for the Central United States at Southern Methodist University. The event was attended by over fifty high school students, along with teachers and parents. The theme for this year’s summit was “Culture Share: Embracing ME, Accepting YOU, Sharing US.” During the event, students participated in group exercises to highlight the social issues that confront governments across the globe. Each student portrayed a social activist and was guided through the process of conflict resolution that demonstrates the benefits of diversity and tolerance. “It is important that as a society, we celebrate diversity,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In our city and here today, we have young people from all over the world who contribute to bringing a culture of peace and camaraderie. Together, we can share our cultural differences and make our world a better place for all people.” Throughout the day-long event students were invited to participate in interactive dialogues with Congresswoman Johnson and other event speakers designed to address the various social issues students face on national and regional levels. “We are very grateful that Congresswoman Johnson had the vision to plant the seeds for this youth diversity summit which is crucial to all people,” said Nizar Didarali, President of the Aga Khan Council for the Central United States. “This forum allows its participants to showcase the brilliance of diversity.” In addition to Congresswoman Johnson, event speakers included: Dr. Andrew Rosenberg, Director of the Center for Science and Democracy; Candice Bledsoe, Director of the Cutting Edge Youth Action Research Center; Robyn Short, Publisher, Filmmaker, and Certified Mediator & International Peace-Building Trainer; and Meena Naik, Associate Director of the Learning Center at the University of North Texas. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.06.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Thursday, August 6th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson made the following statement at the National Progressive Baptist Convention’s (NPBC) “Voting Rights Now” event calling for the restoration of protections from the Voting Rights Act that were stripped away by the Supreme Court in Shelby County v. Holder. “This nation is in a crisis of conscience. As a self-described pillar of democracy, the United States has asserted its role throughout history as a preserver and defender of democratic principles. We uphold democracy, not only as the law of the land here at home, but as the cornerstone of our foreign policy. As a global super power, America assists newly formed democracies in implementing their democratic principles; while also identifying and denouncing regimes that deny their citizens the right to choose their leaders in elections that are free, fair, and transparent. Yet, in this country, we have politicians who claim to defend our constitution, but treat the right to vote as political currency. We have state legislators who claim to represent their constituencies, but fail to protect the right to vote for those who desperately need it. At the heart of any democracy, is the free and unalienable right to participate in the electoral process. But this was not always the case in America. This nation spent decades grappling with who would have the right to vote, and how that right would be preserved. As suffrage slowly expanded its club of exclusive membership during the 20th Century, more and more Americans were given the opportunity to participate in elections. But across the South, African-Americans were largely excluded. Thanks to the passage of the Voting Rights of Act of 1965, it is unlawful to use poll taxes, literacy tests, physical threats and other intimidation tactics to keep people of color from the polls. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 is without question, the most important piece of civil rights legislation to ever pass Congress. This bill, written at the height of the Civil Rights Movement, passed with the sole purpose of banning the racially discriminatory voting practices that were rampant across many state and local governments throughout the South. The Voting Rights Act served as a recognition of, and counterpoint to over a century of overtly violent denials of the right to vote for African-Americans. Two years ago, the Supreme Court struck down Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, a key component to this legislation. Under Section 5, all proposed voting changes in covered jurisdictions had to be submitted for pre-clearance to the Department of Justice. Without this critical provision, the Voting Rights Act is powerless in preventing covered jurisdictions—those that have a history of discriminatory voting practices—from manipulating the law to disenfranchise voters. The minute the Supreme Court handed down its decision, states that previously needed preclearance—like Texas—saw their controversial voter ID laws go into effect with no federal oversight. States like Texas insisted on the necessity of voter ID laws to “protect the integrity of elections,” passing laws that disproportionately affect African-Americans, Hispanics and poor people. It is well documented that voter fraud is not a major issue in elections, yet state legislatures have used this farce to justify heavy-handed and restrictive laws. It is clear what their intent is, and it is shameful that our democracy has allowed the right to vote to be reduced to a mere pawn. Our right to vote is under attack just as it was in the 1950s. And similar to the 1950s, it is time for us to find the same resolve that resulted in the passage of the Voting Rights Act and come together in the fight for this essential freedom. As a Member of Congress, I recognize that the right to vote is the most precious right of any American citizen, and I am committed to preserving the right that previous generations of women and people of color fought to exercise for the sake of this country and the future of its democracy.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - (Thursday, August 6th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act: “Fifty years after President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act into law, it is clear that the struggle for these same liberties is far from over. It has been more than two years since the Supreme Court struck down a key provision of the 1965 Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder. Since this hazardous decision, several Republican-led states in the Deep South, with a violent history of voting rights violations have enacted more restrictive voter ID laws. As a result, we have seen an increase in suppressed voter turnout among African-Americans, Hispanics and low-income individuals. In my home state of Texas, where a federal judge ruled that 600,000 registered voters lacked acceptable forms of identification under the new law, the Supreme Court allowed the law to remain in place during the 2014 elections; thus denying otherwise eligible Texans the right to vote. Now, in addition to gerrymandered districts, Southern states are unfairly rigging elections by ensuring that only a specific segment of the population participates in the democratic process. While Texans are able to vote with a handgun license, they are not able to do so with a college or student I.D. This is unacceptable. The right to vote is fundamental to our democratic system of government, and it is strengthened when every citizen participates. That is why I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015. This piece of legislation will restore the voting rights protections that were stripped away by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder, and the attacks on fundamental voting rights by my Republican colleagues. Fifty years after the enactment of groundbreaking legislation on these priorities, House Democrats continue to stand for guaranteeing voting rights for all Americans. I call on House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on federal legislation to restore the Voting Rights Act, to update and modernize our voter registration systems and require all states to allow some form of early voting.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.05.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Wednesday, August 5th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that DFW Airport was awarded $23 million in grant funds by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The funds granted will be used for necessary taxiway/runway rehabilitation and maintenance efforts during an upcoming phase of structural updates to DFW Airport. “The announcement of this grant award is great news for DFW Airport and the Dallas region,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These much needed updates are vital to airport infrastructure, and will have long-term benefits for the economy and the DFW community at large. As one of the busiest airports in the world, federal grants like these are important for preserving this airport’s reputation as a global gateway and securing its rightful place as a leader in providing transportation worldwide.” Following Congresswoman Johnson’s announcement Sean Donahue, CEO of DFW Airport shared congratulatory remarks. “Congresswoman Johnson has been instrumental in the growth and development of DFW,” said Mr. Donahue. “She understands that DFW Airport is a major asset for our region. She continues to be an advocate.” Congresswoman Johnson is the senior member from the state of Texas on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.05.2015	DALLAS, TX – (Wednesday, August 5th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling that the current Texas voter ID law violates the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA). “Today, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled unanimously that the restrictive Republican-backed Texas voter ID law violates section two of the Voting Rights Act. As a result of the 2013 Supreme Court decision in Shelby County vs. Holder, Texas, a state with a long history of discriminatory voting practices, was empowered to implement stricter voter ID laws that infringed upon the constitutional rights of minority, poor, and elderly Texans. The right to vote is fundamental to our democratic system of government, and it is strengthened when every citizen can freely exercise his or her right to participate. The Fifth Circuit’s ruling recognizes the discriminatory effect of Texas’s laws and highlights the need to remedy the harmful impact of the Shelby decision. The court affirmed the striking difference the law has on minority voters who are not able to obtain the identification needed to vote. In Texas, while many are able to vote with a handgun license, countless others are unable to do so with a college or student I.D. This is unacceptable. As such, I urge my colleagues to move forward on passing the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015. This piece of legislation will restore the voting rights protections that were stripped away by the Supreme Court’s ruling and guard against further attacks on fundamental voting rights. As we look forward to tomorrow’s celebrations in recognition of the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, we must renew our commitment to fight for democracy by advancing the protection of the right to vote.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Thursday, July 30th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that Dallas Executive Airport was awarded $6.57 million in grant funds by the City of Dallas and TxDOT’s Aviation Facilities Grant. The award was approved by the Texas Transportation Commission. The funds granted will be used for the second phase of runway reconstruction and electrical improvements at the Dallas Executive Airport. “The announcement of this award is great news for the Dallas Executive Airport and its patrons,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Many Texans rely on air-based transportation. For this reason, it is imperative that our federal and state governments work to ensure that these facilities meet the rigorous standards of the state’s general aviation system. I am pleased that among those considered, Dallas Executive Airport was a recipient.” Congresswoman Johnson is the senior member from the state of Texas on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and serves on the Aviation Subcommittee. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Thursday, July 30th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in support of the agreement between the United States, its international partners, and Iran which would prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. “After careful review of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, I support this historic agreement which will block all of Iran’s possible paths to a nuclear weapon. President Obama and his chief negotiators worked hard to finalize a diplomatic agreement on July 14th. I am confident that this deal is in the best interest of America because it is built on verification through four clear objectives: blocking the highly enriched uranium route; allowing no path to plutonium; intensive monitoring; and incentives for compliance. Lasting more than a decade, these restrictions have earned widespread global support. While the deal may not be perfect, it is our best option to preserve the safety of Israel and the rest of the world. It is my firm belief that if this deal is not implemented due to a Congressional blockade, we risk devastating military conflict. I am hopeful that we can continue on this trajectory of peace and diplomacy as opposed to an unavoidable nuclear arms race and armed conflict in the region. As we move to the next phase and allow Congress to study and debate this agreement, we must listen to the non-proliferation experts who have worked tirelessly to move the deal forward. It would be negligent to walk away from a nuclear deal at this point.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Friday, July 24th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement recognizing the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) signed into law by President George H. W. Bush on July 26, 1990. The Americans with Disabilities Act was enacted with bipartisan support to prohibit discrimination and ensure equal opportunity for individuals with disabilities in employment, state and local government services, public accommodations, commercial facilities, and transportation: “This Sunday marks twenty-five years since the Americans with Disabilities Act was signed into law,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This law is one of the most comprehensive and successful pieces of legislation in our nation’s history. It protects the rights of individuals living with disabilities and ensures greater accessibility and inclusivity in many aspects of every-day life.” Since the Americans with Disabilities Act was enacted, the law has provided millions of Americans with the opportunity to participate fully in our society by: · Making the workplace more accessible by prohibiting private employers, state and local governments, employment agencies and labor unions from discriminating against qualified individuals with disabilities; · Providing for reasonable accommodations to those who otherwise would have difficulty on the job because of a disability, such as making existing facilities used by employees readily accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities; and · Ensuring those with differing abilities have the tools to succeed by requiring employers to make a reasonable accommodation for the known disability of a qualified applicant or employee, such as providing a deaf applicant with a sign language interpreter during the job interview, or allowing an employee with diabetes to take regularly scheduled breaks during the workday to eat properly and monitor blood sugar and insulin levels. In addition to the 56.7 million Americans living with disabilities, the ADA has also positively impacted the lives of the 232,000 individuals with disabilities who are living with disabilities in Dallas. “As we mark this anniversary, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that every American has the opportunity to live independently and with dignity,” concluded Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud of the progress the law has made for Americans with disabilities, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to advance equality for all Americans and remove obstacles that stand in the way of the American Dream.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.22.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Wednesday, July 22nd, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Glenn Heights Fire Department was awarded $78,858 in federal grant funds by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security/Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds will be used to improve operations and safety within the department and assist in meeting the firefighting and emergency response needs of the Glenn Heights Fire Department and emergency medical first responders. “The announcement of this award is great news for the Glenn Heights Fire Department,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day risking their lives to keep us all safe, and it is important that we make every effort to support the important work and service they provide to our communities. I am pleased that the department won this competitive grant that will be used to enhance their ability to do their jobs safely and efficiently. I am very proud of the men and women who serve at the Glenn Heights Fire Department and of firefighters throughout District 30 for the selfless service they provide. I will continue to fight for the resources and support they need.” This grant was awarded as a part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources required to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Wednesday, July 15th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the Friend of the National Parks Award from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). The award recognizes Congresswoman Johnson’s votes during the 113th Congress that contributed to the protection and enhancement of America’s national parks. At a confirmed 100 voting record, Congresswoman Johnson voted favorably for all five legislative measures related to National Parks during the 113th Congress. “It’s an honor to recognize Congresswoman Johnson for supporting our national parks on the floor of the House during the 113th Congress,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the 114th Congress works on policies and funding levels impacting our national parks, I look forward to working with Ms. Johnson to ensure national parks have safe roadways, are well maintained, and have the resources they need to thrive for their upcoming centennial.” NPCA’s Friend of the National Parks Award was established in 1999 to track and publicize congressional members’ votes on significant park issues. This year, NPCA tracked votes for three national park-related votes in the Senate and five in the House of Representatives. To receive the award, senators needed to vote in favor of national parks on at least two scored bills and representatives on at least three scored bills. “It is an honor to receive the Friend of the National Parks Award, said Congresswoman Johnson. With sixteen national parks located throughout the state of Texas, I have first-hand knowledge of the tremendous benefits these pieces of infrastructure bring. Moving forward, as it remains in the best interest of the American people, I will continue to support national park legislation in the 114th Congress.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Tuesday, July 14th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson recognized the 50th anniversary of the landmark Older Americans Act which President Lyndon Johnson signed into law on July 14, 1965. The Older Americans Act funds critical services that help keep older adults healthy and independent – services such as meals-on-wheels and other nutrition programs, in-home services, transportation, senior centers, elder abuse prevention, and caregiver support. “As the Baby Boomer Generation enters the 65 and over age bracket and the average life expectancy lengthens, it is clear that we cannot afford a shortage of services,” said Congresswoman Johnson. The importance of the Older Americans Act and the services it funds for seniors, caregivers, and their families cannot be overstated. These services help seniors stay as independent as possible in their homes and communities, which, for many seniors in Texas, is the number-one priority. Just over the last five years, the Older Americans Act has funded: More than 1 billion meals-on-wheels and congregate meals; Over 130 million rides to doctor’s offices, grocery stores, and other essential places; Over 60 million hours of homemaker services, allowing seniors to remain in their homes; and Over 30 million hours of respite care, providing caregivers the vital rest and support they need. “After a lifetime of hard work, America’s seniors deserve to live their later years with dignity and independence,” Congresswoman Johnson concluded. “This piece of legislation is key in helping them to do just that. As we celebrate the Older Americans Act 50th Anniversary, we must also keep in mind that these services often end up on the chopping block. This year, in order to prevent any lapse in service, Congress must act in the best interest of American seniors by actively working to reauthorize and strengthen this critical piece of legislation.” # # # U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - (Tuesday, July 14th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the President’s announcement of the nuclear deal with Iran: “After years of negotiating, the President announced an historic agreement with Iran regarding its nuclear program. I believe America and its international partners are taking an important first step in the right direction. In doing so, we are expanding the reach of our nation’s diplomatic powers and hopefully, eliminating the spread of nuclear arms. I applaud President Obama’s commitment to diplomacy and peace-building strategies and commend Secretary John Kerry and Secretary Ernest Moniz for their skilled leadership during the negotiations. As President Obama stated, ‘this deal is not built on trust, it is built on verification.’ We cannot simply accept the words of others to secure the international community's and America's safety. We must receive this verification autonomously by our own methods. Moving forward, the details of the agreement will undergo intense Congressional scrutiny over the next 60 days. I am hopeful that this deal will prove to advance the security for America and our trusted allies by curbing Iran’s nuclear program, so that we can move toward implementation.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Monday, July 13th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a report showcasing infrastructure needs in the state of Texas. With only 18 days left before the Highway Trust Fund expires on July 31st, the report highlights the need for immediate action. “My Republican colleagues are mistaken if they are under the impression that a long-term measure to fix our broken infrastructure is not necessary for the betterment of this country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The roads and bridges we use for our commutes on a daily basis are crumbling. It is time to invest in American infrastructure and create well-paying construction jobs for hardworking Americans in Texas.” In Texas, 38 percent of roads are in mediocre or poor condition, forcing drivers to spend approximately $5.27 billion dollars annually on otherwise unnecessary automotive repairs, increasing costs for commuters and businesses moving their goods to market. With 19 percent of our state’s bridges being structurally deficient, it is clear that a sweeping bipartisan effort is needed to invest in the future of America’s infrastructure. “House Republicans continue to ignore the urgent crisis presented by the expiration of the Highway Trust Fund,” continued Congresswoman Johnson. “The American people deserve a long-term plan that invests in America’s crumbling infrastructure that creates jobs, not special interest giveaways for the ultra-wealthy.” For more details on the effects of Highway Trust Fund expiration, visit: https://1.usa.gov/1SjvCJi ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - (Friday, July 10th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 21st Century Cures Act: “Investing in innovation will yield high rewards for the medical community, especially patients. I voted in favor of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed in the House by a vote of 344–77. While H.R. 6 contains many provisions regarding the biomedical research workforce, clinical trials, FDA improvements, I am most proud of the initiative’s provisions regarding mandatory funding for the NIH and the FDA. Last October, I wrote a letter urging the White House to take into consideration UT-Southwestern’s existing particle therapy research infrastructure and its expertise in leading cancer treatment research in the U.S., while selecting the planning grant award recipients. The planned center would serve as a research adjunct to an independently created and funded, sustainable clinical facility for particle beam radiation therapy. Currently, the planning grant includes pilot projects that will enable a research agenda in particle beam delivery systems, dosimetry, radiation biology, and/or translational pre-clinical studies. The advanced planning grant the UT Southwestern Medical Center received in February 2015, is exactly the type of medical and technological advancement the DFW Metroplex and country needs and is the type of federal investment we need to continue to lead the world in state-of-the-art medical research. Not only is this grant a major advancement for STEM, it is a crucial step in the right direction for cancer research and those affected by cancer here in the United States. This legislation provides new funding opportunities for innovative cancer treatment approaches such as the development of America’s first Heavy Ion Center for cancer therapy and would pave the way to keep America at the forefront of medical research and state-of-the-art cancer treatment. The bill directs funds towards high-risk, high-reward research performed by early stage investigators. NIH is encouraged to use the new influx of dollars to address areas of unmet medical needs, including but not limited to, biomarkers, precision medicine, infectious diseases, and antibiotics. The measure would promote the maintenance of the best biomedical workforce in the world, including increasing the diversity of the workforce as a whole.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (Wednesday, July 8th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement applauding the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) introduction of a fair housing regulation entitled Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH), a rule aimed at promoting harmonious, stable and prosperous communities and locales: “When Congress passed the Fair Housing Act in 1968, it did so with the intent to prohibit discrimination in housing related activities, while also imposing an affirmative duty to further fair housing. The Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule sets out a framework for local governments, states, and public housing agencies (PHAs) to take meaningful action to remedy decades of government-supported segregation practices, promote fair housing choice and encourage inclusive communities that are free from discrimination. The regulation released today will equip communities that receive HUD funding with data and tools necessary to meet fair housing obligations, ensuring that federal funds are not used to support discriminatory policies. For far too long, we have unfairly deprived under-served communities of the educational and economic investments necessary for equitable success. Today’s announcement by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development is a critical step in addressing the harmful effects of housing segregation and inequality across our nation, and I applaud Secretary Castro and the Obama Administration for releasing a final rule that seeks to redress such a harmful cycle of inequality.” Along with the Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing rule, HUD will provide local policymakers with improved data on housing, demographics, and other local conditions. Additionally, the rule will help communities make strategic use of the resources available to expand housing choices for individuals with disabilities, families with children, and other under-served groups. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - (Wednesday, July 8th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson applauded the passage of H.Res. 310, a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding Srebrenica. As a co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Bosnia, Congresswoman Johnson served as the lead democrat on the resolution that passed by voice vote this afternoon. Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement regarding Srebrenica: “I believe it is crucial to distinguish the Srebrenica massacres as genocide while honoring the thousands of innocent people who were killed in July twenty years ago. In the early 1990s, following Bosnia and Herzegovina’s declaration of national sovereignty, Bosnian Serb forces attacked Eastern Bosnia in order to unify and secure Serb territory. During this struggle for control, those Bosnian Serb forces, also called the Army of Republika Srpska committed crimes of ethnic cleansing of the non-Serb population. Approximately 8,000 Bosnian men and boys were systematically executed in July of 1995. The situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina during this time was a failure on behalf of the international community. In 1999, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan acknowledged that the global community needed to accept responsibility for the ethnic cleansing campaign in Bosnia and Herzegovina that killed thousands of unarmed civilians in a town designated as a “safe area.” For many years now, I have called on the United Nations to recognize the Srebrenica genocide. Yesterday, I learned that Russia blocked the latest effort by the United Kingdom to recognize the Srebrenica massacres as a genocide, calling it “not constructive, confrontational, and politically-motivated.” I am disappointed that the UN is unable to formally recognize Europe’s worst atrocity since World War II. Although the global community cannot and will not distinguish the Srebrenica massacres as a crime of genocide, I applaud my fellow Bosnia Caucus co-chair, Congressman Chris Smith, for introducing this important resolution. While the UN’s hands are tied, I am proud that the United States continues to be Bosnia and Herzegovina’s greatest friend and ally.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC - (Wednesday, July 8th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement following the vote on the House consideration of H.R. 5, the Student Success Act, a reauthorization of the Elementary Secondary Education Act: “The most recent iteration of the Elementary Secondary Education Act, HR 5, that was brought to the floor of the House today failed to implement lessons learned from the failed policies of No Child Left Behind. Instead of providing more resources to students and teachers and implementing smarter accountability measures, the Student Success Act advances policies that gut the core intent of the original Elementary Secondary Education Act of 1965. Among the most egregious provisions of the proposed legislation is a provision providing for the “portability” for Title 1 funds. This specific provision adversely affects families in District 30 and any communities with high concentrations of poverty by diluting the funding formula which seeks to provide additional resources to struggling school districts. Instead of abating the disparity of resources within underserved communities, portability of Title 1 funds would guarantee that low-resourced schools remained in deteriorating conditions. Additionally, as the Ranking Member on the Science, Space, and Technology Committee, and a long-time advocate for STEM -- Science, Technology, Mathematics and Engineering -- education, I was alarmed by the utter and complete exclusion of any reference to STEM education within the base text. We should be retooling our education system to fit the needs of an ever evolving, globalized economy, not running back to factory-style education that fails to provide our children with the skills needed to compete. Education is the ladder to opportunity and central to keeping alive the American Dream. I will not rest until my colleagues on both sides of aisle establish a bill that ensures education in America is reflective of our principles as a nation.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.08.2015	TAIPEI, TAIWAN - (Wednesday, July 8th, 2015) - Last week, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson participated in a conference titled "Building Bridges of Peace through Culture and Faith," hosted by Judy Chen Hseih and the Hwazan World Education Foundation. The conference was held in Taipei, Taiwan and focused on utilizing culture and faith to promote peace. During the conference, Congresswoman Johnson addressed more than 1,000 audience members to provide background on the A World of Women for World Peace initiative. "Throughout my time in office, I have seen first-hand the pillage of war. Shortly after experiencing the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, I saw on the cover of Newsweek magazine, two boys from Liberia who were 12 and 14 years old all dressed in war gear with machine guns, and I just thought enough was enough. I wondered how our world had come to this place of aggression, and I knew that I had to do something to be a part of bringing a culture of peace to the world," said Congresswoman Johnson. "My efforts started with women who are the mothers of young boys like the ones I saw on the cover of that magazine, whose lives are sacrificed in the name of war. We must recognize and empower these women to facilitate peace-building, peacemaking, and peace-keeping activities across the world. We must also recognize the experts and leaders who help us to plant the seeds of peace. Today's conference helps us to re-emphasize the necessity of peace and diplomacy across the globe." On the first panel, Alma Abdul-Hadi Jadallah, PhD, Carol Griffith Williams, Olivia Stokes Dreier, and Roberto Garcia spoke about culture and peace. Dr. Jadallah told stories of conflict from around the world and left a message with the audience of sustaining hope in the midst of adversity. Carol Williams, a former Montana state legislator, discussed women promoting peace during a time of war and Peace Links, an organization she helped to found during the Cold War to open lines of communication and exchange programs between women in Russia and America. Olivia Dreier of the Karuna Center for Peace-building spoke about compassion and healing the wounds of civil wars across the globe through dialogue between different religious and ethnic groups by recognizing local traditions. Roberto Garcia, a multicultural relations professional in Toowoomba, Australia, where eighty ethnic groups speak over one hundred languages, spoke about the vast cultural diversity in Australia and encouraged multi-cultural participation in the community. On the second panel, Reverend Timothy Njoya, Swami Samachittananda, Noor Mohamed Marican, and Harbans Singh spoke about faith-based peace. Reverend Timothy Njoya, who developed Men for Equality with Women in Kenya, spoke about faith as an instrument of peace, love, and compassion. Swami Samachittananda, a Hindu monk, quoted various religious texts and spoke about harmony in religions. Noor Mohamed Marican, a leader of Singapore's Inter-Religious Organization, spoke about his experiences as a Muslim and finding common ground with other faith leaders and practitioners by recognizing their differences. Harbans Singh, who serves as Honorary Secretary of Singapore's Inter-Religious Organization, spoke about Sikhism's dedication to humility and compassion. In addition to the two panels, the conference also featured an interfaith peace discussion with faith leaders from the Multi-Faith Multicultural Centre at Pure Land Learning College in Toowoomba, Australia, a universal prayer with a candle lighting ceremony, and cultural dance performances. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.02.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Thursday, July 2nd, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the anniversary of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, one of the most sweeping pieces of civil rights legislation since Reconstruction: “As we commemorate the anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, we remember the debt all of us owe to the courageous leaders of the 1960’s Civil Rights Movement – many of whom fell victim to unconscionable crimes because of their choices to lead the march against discrimination, injustice and inequality. Their unyielding hope lay at the foundation of the progress we’ve made as a nation. The landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 helped bring an end to the Jim Crow era by prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Although the Civil Rights Act of 1964 represents enormous progress, there remains a great deal of work to be done. In the wake of recent tragedies, such as the shooting in Charleston and the numerous incidents of police violence against minorities, it is clear that the nation remains deeply divided, and we are all responsible for leading the effort of reconciliation, so that we can heal the wounds of prejudice and hatred in every city, county and state. We must work together to restore our nation’s dignity. I call upon Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle to act in a bipartisan fashion to honor the sacrifices of the brave leaders of the Civil Rights Movement by continuing to advance civil rights efforts around the country. This begins with protecting the right of every American to participate in the democratic process by supporting the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015, which I am co-sponsoring. Supporting this piece of legislation would be in the spirit of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, ensuring that America lives up to its creed that all individuals are created equal.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Tuesday, June 30th, 2015) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the recent ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States regarding marriage equality: “Equality for all Americans is of the utmost importance, and after a long fought battle across the nation and throughout the federal judicial system, the Supreme Court of the United States has affirmed that committed couples, regardless of sexual orientation, have a Constitutional right to marry. As we celebrate this great victory during LGBT Pride Month, we also remember that LGBT Americans have fought for the equality of all Americans, and each year during the month of June, we recognize their contributions and accomplishments in the fight for full equality. On Friday, our nation made history with this ruling. But, there is still much to be done as we continue the fight for the extension of full protection under the law to every American, including those in the LGBT community. Moving forward, I will continue my commitment to fight against discriminatory laws and practices that impede an individual’s freedom." ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - (Thursday, June 25th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the two-year anniversary of the Supreme Court decision in Shelby County v. Holder : “Two years ago today, the Supreme Court struck down a key provision of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. Since this hazardous decision, several Republican-led states in the Deep South, with a violent history of voting rights violations have enacted more restrictive voter ID laws. As a result, we have seen an increase in suppressed voter turnout among African-Americans, Hispanics and low-income individuals. Without a doubt, the Court’s decision haphazardly paved the way for states with the ugliest history of discrimination against minority voters, including Texas, to effectively reinstate the poll tax, while weakening the Justice Department’s authority to ensure fair elections. In my home state of Texas, where a federal judge ruled that 600,000 registered voters lacked acceptable forms of identification under the new law, the Supreme Court allowed the law to remain in place during the 2014 elections; thus denying otherwise eligible Texans the right to vote. Now, in addition to gerrymandered districts, Southern states are unfairly rigging elections by ensuring that only a specific segment of the population participates in the democratic process. While Texans are able to vote with a handgun license, they are not able to do so with a college or student I.D. This is unacceptable. The right to vote is fundamental to our democratic system of government, and it is strengthened when every citizen participates. That is why I am proud to be a co-sponsor of the Voting Rights Advancement Act of 2015. This piece of legislation will restore the voting rights protections that were stripped away by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Shelby County v. Holder, and I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together to bring this critical piece of legislation to the floor immediately.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.23.2015	DALLAS, TX - (Tuesday, June 23rd, 2015) –This weekend, approximately one hundred people attended a reception held at the new Parkland Hospital campus for the unveiling of the ‘Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson WISH Garden,’ which encompasses the entire promenade and surrounding garden at the standalone Parkland Women & Infants Specialty Health (WISH) Center. The largest hospital in Dallas County, Parkland had more than one million patient visits last year. The new Parkland Hospital is scheduled to open August 20th, 2015 in Dallas' medical district. It will be an 865-bed facility. “Congresswoman Johnson has helped to make Dallas what it is today,” said Debbie Dudley Branson, a local Dallas attorney. “The Parkland community is grateful to you for your lifetime commitment to public health. Your name will forever be associated with one of the finest public hospitals in the country.” In addition to her legal work in Dallas, Ms. Dudley Branson also serves as the chair of the Parkland Board of Managers. During his remarks, David Krause, the president and CEO of the Parkland Foundation noted that "Congresswoman Johnson has been a steadfast advocate for Parkland, and I am delighted that the promenade is being named for her.” "I am both proud and humbled to be recognized by the naming of such a beautiful space that will be used to provide a place of serenity to the women and children who will be treated here," said Congresswoman Johnson. "Parkland is one of the best hospitals in the entire country. I am proud of the work they do here, and this is an extraordinary honor." ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.19.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Friday, June 19th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding the House’s passage of H.R. 2146, the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act which would add to the underlying bill the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) language from the Senate Amendment to H.R. 1314 that was voted on in the House last week. “International trade has not only had a positive impact on our national economy, it is also a strong economic driver in my district. In fact, Texas leads the nation in exports and jobs directly linked to them”, said Congresswoman Johnson. “In 2014, Texas exported $289 billion in goods and led the nation in manufacturing exports by a large margin. During 2013, the metropolitan area of Dallas-Ft. Worth-Arlington exported $27.6 billion in goods to the rest of the world. Establishing Trade Promotion Authority will give President Obama the tools he needs to negotiate free and fair trade agreements across the globe. I strongly urge the Senate to send this legislation to the President’s desk.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Thursday, June 18th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the shooting tragedy that took place at the historic Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (A.M.E) Church in Charleston, South Carolina: “I am shocked and saddened to hear of the disheartening news regarding last night’s shooting in Charleston, SC. My thoughts and prayers are with the survivors and loved ones of the victims of this tragedy at the historic Emanuel A.M.E. Church. Among the victims was Rev. Clementa C. Pinckney, pastor of the church and a dynamic state senator. A faithful public servant, his impact on parishioners is purely evident today as members of the Charleston community band together in solidarity. I stand in solidarity with the church congregation, the friends and family of those affected, and the community of Charleston during this very difficult time. There is absolutely no place for this level of hatred against peaceful worshippers in a religious sanctuary. Though we can find solace in the perpetrator’s recent capture, it is my hope that justice for this heinous crime be swift. For generations, this church has been a beacon of hope for African Americans who have endured years of racial strife in South Carolina. I am confident that this resilient community will come together once again to overcome this senseless tragedy.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Friday, June 12th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding the House’s failure to pass the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act: “After a series of contentious debates regarding the future of trade, the U.S. House of Representatives failed to pass the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Act but passed the Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) Act. Despite yesterday’s passage of the Trade Preference Extension Act, which provided an alternative finance mechanism to ensure that no cuts to Medicare would result from the passage of TAA, the House failed to muster support for this critical piece of legislation that would have provided much needed protection for American workers. To be clear, throughout this entire trade policy debate, I have been vehemently opposed to any cuts to Medicare, but the passage of TPA without TAA leaves displaced workers with no safety net. The Trade Adjustment Assistance Act would have provided wide-ranging benefits for our nation’s economy by providing employment and training services to increase the skills of displaced workers and boost their future earning potential. After today’s vote, they are left with no protections. I urge my colleagues to protect America’s workforce and pass the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act when the House reconsiders the trade package next week. Moving forward, I will continue to support trade policies that aim to ensure sustained economic growth and job creation for the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex, the state of Texas and the United States of America.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Thursday, June 11th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding pending House consideration of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) and Trade Promotion Authority (TPA): “As it stands, the Senate-passed version of TAA currently under consideration by the House would have brought to a halt, efforts to grant the President the needed trade promotion authority critical to the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex economy and that of the nation at-large. Specific clauses within the Senate TAA bill would have induced budget cuts to Medicare to finance the measure, which I along with my Democratic colleagues strongly oppose. Without Democratic support, TAA cannot pass. In response, I, along with my colleagues supported the passage of the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015 which creates an alternative finance mechanism for TAA by means of enacting tougher tax enforcement measures in the African Growth and Opportunities Act. Once the Senate accepts the Trade Preferences Extension Act, Medicare cuts in the Senate-version of TAA would be rendered null. To be clear, I vehemently oppose any cuts to Medicare or any reduction to current benefits. Today’s vote in favor of the Trade Preferences Extension Act ensures that Medicare will remain untouched as we proceed to grant the President trade promotion authority and bolster economic growth and sustained prosperity for the Dallas-Fort Worth area and Americans at-large. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. - (Wednesday, June 10th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the anniversary of the Equal Pay Act of 1963: “Today marks a critical moment in our nation’s history when President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963 into law 52 years ago. In 2015 millions of women across the country have become integral parts of our workforce, helping to bolster our nation’s economy through the work they complete every day. However, unlike their male counterparts a vast majority of these women only earn 78 cents on the dollar in comparison to their male counterparts. By the same token, this number decreases significantly when minority women are taken into account. At present African American women earn only 64 cents on the dollar, while Latina women earn only 56 cents on the dollar in comparison to their white counterparts. This is not right and this is not representative of the progress women and families have made. America is known as the ‘land of opportunity,’ and not simply opportunity for the few but opportunity for all. As a woman in Congress, I have seen the biases and hardships women face firsthand. As one of the few black women in Congress and one of the longest serving, I have seen at great length how each of these components effect our work. Americans deserve equal pay for equal work and I will continue to make this concept a priority while serving in Congress.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.29.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Friday, May 29th , 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the severe flooding in Texas: “Much of the state has experienced heavy rainfall and damaging floods during this past week, and additional rain is expected in North Texas over the weekend. Texans are resilient, and I am confident that a great sense of community will cause the people of District 30 to come together and support those in need, particularly those with disabilities, senior citizens and the homeless, who may find themselves in difficult situations during this time. My office has already been in contact with the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the City of Dallas and other local, state and federal officials to ensure a timely and well-coordinated response. If you are in need of help, please call 311 for non-emergency situations and 911 in the event of an emergency. I will offer my assistance in any way possible to the constituents of my district who are impacted over the weekend. “ For information purposes FEMA recommends following safety and preparedness Tips Monitor local radio or TV stations for updated emergency information, and follow the instructions of state, local, and tribal officials. Familiarize yourself with the terms used to identify a severe weather hazard and discuss with your family what to do if a watch or warning is issued. Some of the more common terms used to describe severe weather include the following: o A Flash Flood Watch: Flash flooding is possible. Be prepared to move to higher ground; monitor NOAA Weather Radio, commercial radio, or television for information. o A Flash Flood Warning: A flash flood is occurring; seek higher ground on foot immediately. o A River Flood Watch is issued when river flooding is possible at one or more forecast points along a river. o A River Flood Warning is issued when river flooding is occurring or imminent at one or more forecast points along a river. Do not walk through flowing water. Six inches of swiftly moving water can knock you off your feet. If you encounter flood waters, remember – “Turn around. Don’t drown.” Ensure you have a flashlight, NOAA Weather Radio, and extra batteries on hand. Use your battery-operated NOAA Weather Radio for updates from local officials. Injury may occur when people walk amid disaster debris and enter damaged buildings. Wear sturdy shoes or boots, long sleeves and gloves when handling or walking on or near debris. Be aware of possible structural, electrical or gas-leak hazards in or around your home. Contact your local city or county building inspectors for information on structural safety codes and standards and before going back to a property with downed power lines, or the possibility of a gas leak. Do not touch downed power lines or objects in contact with downed lines. Report downed power lines and electrical hazards to the police and the utility company. They may also offer suggestions on finding a qualified contractor to do work for you. Wireless Emergency Alerts (WEAs) are now being sent directly to many cell phones on participating wireless carriers' networks. WEAs sent by public safety officials such as the National Weather Service are designed to get your attention and to provide brief, critical instructions to warn about imminent threats like severe weather. Take the alert seriously and follow instructions. More information is available on WEA at www.fema.gov/wireless-emergency-alerts. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – (Thursday, May 28th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement following a new clean water rule announced by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers that clarifies which waters are protected by the Clean Water Act: “The Clean Water Rule announced by President Obama, the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers today, restores vital protections for streams and wetlands that provide drinking water for millions of Americans. These vital and necessary protections against the pollution of water are critical in sustaining the people of America and our environment. Through their tireless efforts, the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers have created a strong rule for the betterment of our country. As it stands, the final rule provides a clear understanding of the jurisdictional waters covered by the Clean Water Act, ensuring that the American people have access to clean and safe water for both their families and communities. It is my belief that we must continue to do everything possible to strengthen our nation’s water infrastructure. American families deserve transparency, and I will continue to support efforts that move us toward greater accountability and increased transparency.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Wednesday, May 27th , 2015) – A group of Congresswomen traveled to Malawi and Kenya with the global poverty-fighting organization CARE to see how the U.S. government is empowering the next generation of mothers and girls. The delegation was led by CARE’s President and CEO, Helene D. Gayle marking her last congressional trip with CARE after nearly a decade of service. Dr. Gayle was joined by Ambassador Deborah Birx, U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator & U.S. Special Representative for Global Health Diplomacy, U.S. Department of State. Reps. Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) co-anchored the trip. Other participants included Reps. Julia Brownley (D-CA), Lois Frankel (D-FL) and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). The delegation was joined by other influential leaders from the U.S. Department of State, Center for Strategic and International Studies and the General Mills Foundation. The five-day trip highlighted the role U.S. investments in women and girl’s empowerment has played in building healthier, stronger and more resilient communities. This Learning Tour comes at a critical time as Congress debates the International Affairs Budget. Despite some socioeconomic progress, both Kenya and Malawi continue to struggle with high rates of poverty, food insecurity, HIV/AIDS infection and maternal and child mortality. The trip started in Malawi, one of the poorest countries in the world, where the delegation witnessed how investing in women and girls results in higher educational attainment, expanded economic resources and healthier families. The second half of the trip explored the challenges meeting high prevalence of HIV/AIDS, particularly among adolescent girls and pregnant women. In Kenya, the delegation focused on programs that showed the positive impact of the U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). Participants in CARE’s May 2015 Learning Tour to Malawi and Kenya included: Dr. Helene Gayle, President & CEO, CARE Ambassador Deborah Birx, U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator & U.S. Special Representative for Global Health Diplomacy, U.S. Department of State Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL) Rep. Julia Brownley (D-CA) Rep. Lois Frankel (D-FL) Sandy Thurman, Acting Principal Deputy, Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, U.S. Department of State Emily Gibbons, Director of Congressional Relations, Office of the U.S. Global AIDS Coordinator, U.S. Department of State Kim Nelson, Senior Vice President, External Relations and President, General Mills Foundation Janet Fleischman, Senior Associate, Global Health Policy Center, CSIS Joseph Blount, Business Executive and Philanthropist David Ray, Vice President of Advocacy, CAR For more information on CARE's Learning Tours, visit www.care.org/LearningTours. The CARE Learning Tours program is funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. ABOUT CARE Founded in 1945, CARE is a leading humanitarian organization fighting global poverty. CARE places special focus on working alongside poor girls and women because, equipped with the proper resources, they have the power to lift whole families and entire communities out of poverty. Last year, CARE worked in 87 countries and reached more than 97 million people around the world. For more information, please contact Stephanie Chen at schen@care.org or 202-595-2824. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – (Friday, May 22, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement honoring fallen patriots and their families as we prepare for Monday’s Memorial Day celebrations: “Each year on Memorial Day, we pause to honor the courage of the brave men and women of our armed forces, who fought and died to protect our freedoms. We owe a tremendous debt of gratitude for their bravery, sacrifice and selflessness. Today, we pay tribute to the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters who secured our futures by sacrificing their own. Without their efforts, our country would not serve as the beacon of hope and example for democratic principles to the rest of the world. As we reflect this Memorial Day, be sure to take a moment to give thanks for our fallen patriots and the families who shared them with us.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - (Tuesday, May 19th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congressman Alcee Hastings (D-FL), founding co-chairs of the Congressional Homelessness Caucus hosted a briefing titled “Successful Community Models in Housing and Homeless Shelters.” During the briefing, attendees heard from community leaders regarding several models currently employed around the country. From homeless shelters to the Housing First model, panelists discussed case studies as representations of what works best in various communities and how the American people can work together to reduce and eliminate homelessness. Panelists included Nan Roman, CEO and President, National Alliance to End Homelessness; Barbara Banaszynski, Senior Vice President, Program Operations, Volunteers of America; Bob Sweeney, Dallas Life Foundation; and moderator Michael Stoops, National Coalition for the Homeless. In addition to the difficulties homeless individuals face on a daily basis, homelessness puts tremendous financial pressure on municipalities across the United States, as the state works to provide police and medical assistance to individuals left to fend for themselves on the streets. The Congressional Homelessness Caucus seeks to host conversations and develop policies to ultimately eradicate homelessness. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - (Tuesday, May 19th, 2015) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson met with the Eugene McDermott Scholars from the University of Texas at Dallas to discuss the importance of research, STEM education, and to provide an overview of the legislative process. As the Ranking Member on the House Science, Space, and Technology committee, Congresswoman Johnson centered much of her conversation on the growing importance of STEM education. “The U.S. has a demand for high-skilled workers, and the job of my colleagues and I is to provide the resources our students need to excel in these innovative careers,” said Congresswoman Johnson. The McDermott Scholars program was founded by Mrs. Margaret McDermott, the widow of Texas Instruments Founder, Eugene McDermott, in honor of his work to promote education. Through its programming, McDermott Scholars are provided with rigorous and personalized education, as well as intensive extracurricular activities. More than 40 of students in the existing cohort are National Merit Scholars, and over 20 served as their high school's valedictorians. During the subsequent Q&A session, one student asked “If Democrats and Republicans were as combative as they seem on television?” To which Congresswoman Johnson replied, “we all have our disagreements from time to time, but it rarely leaves the floor, bipartisanship is one of the most important components of an effective congressional body, and I make a conscious effort to keep this in mind at all times.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.18.2015	DALLAS, TX – (Monday, May 18th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, in partnership with Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. (MIHA), held the 12th Annual “Eddie Bernice Johnson Math and Science Lecture Series” at the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center in Dallas, Texas. The brainchild of Congresswoman Johnson and the University of Texas at Dallas, the lecture series was created in an effort to expose Dallas-area high school students to career opportunities in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). In addition to exploring career opportunities, the lecture series allows students to engage with accomplished professionals in the disciplines of math and science. This year, Congresswoman Johnson hosted special guest aviation hero, Barrington Irving. At the age of 23, Mr. Irving became the first African-American pilot to fly solo around the world. “This event has allowed me share my educational and motivational message with students. Through my work, I want to show them that understanding the value of STEM education and pursuing a career in such an exciting industry can provide a means toward achieving their dreams – much in the same way that I did,” said Mr. Irving. As the Ranking Member on the House Science, Space and Technology committee, Congresswoman Johnson is firmly dedicated to exposing students to pathways toward prosperity in STEM education. “As the United States continues to become deeply immersed in the culture of high-tech innovation, we must be strategic in preparing the future workforce. I have always been a strong supporter of STEM education. The U.S. has a demand for high-skilled workers, and we must provide the resources our students need to excel in these innovative careers. This is what I hope to achieve through the Math and Science Lecture Series each year” said Congresswoman Johnson. For upcoming events from the Office of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, visit: www.ebjohnson.house.gov. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.16.2015	Dallas, TX – (Saturday, May 16th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her 23rd Annual Academy Day at DeSoto High School. In addition to over one hundred students in attendance, representatives LTJG Darnell Talbert of the U.S. Coast Guard Academy; CDR Gini Mattson of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy; Captain Christopher Wallace of the U.S. Air Force Academy; Major Benny Barrett of the U.S. Naval Academy; Major Andrew Yang of the U.S. Military Academy; and Dr. David Harris, Superintendent, DeSoto ISD. Additional speakers and guests included various ROTC officers from District 30 schools, City of DeSoto Mayor, Carl Sherman, and a special guest performance from the DeSoto High School A Cappella Choir. Academy Day provides an opportunity for interested students to gather detailed information about the five U.S. Service Academies. Historically, congressional appointments from District 30 have been low compared to surrounding districts. However, due to recent initiatives implemented by Congresswoman Johnson, District 30 had seven congressional appointments this year—its largest class to date. This year’s appointments include: Michael Mauricio (Dubiski High School), Stephanie Vigen (South Grand Prairie High School), Elizabeth Vigen (South Grand Prairie High School) attending The United States Naval Academy; Bryce Samuel (Barack Obama Male Leadership Academy), Emiliano Gonzalez (Jesuit College Preparatory School), Andrew Ortiz (Duncanville High School) attending The United States Military Academy; and Austin Gula (Duncanville High School) attending The United States Air Force Academy. “Our nation’s service academies provide students with a first rate education without the expenses of the traditional university system” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I encourage all college bound students to fully explore the vast opportunities our country’s service academies provide. U.S. Service Academies are consistently ranked above Ivy-League schools in STEM subjects and provide a tuition-free education with guaranteed employment upon graduation.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - (May 15th, 2015) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined fellow Congressional Lupus Caucus Co-Chair Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen to recognize Put on Purple day for lupus awareness. Lupus is an autoimmune disease that affects an estimated 1.5 million Americans. The chronic disease can affect nearly any part of the body including the skin, lungs, heart, joints, kidneys, and brain. On average, it takes six years for a lupus diagnosis from the first onset of symptoms. This is because lupus is known as the “great imitator,” mimicking many other illnesses and no single test can diagnose a patient. “We must do more to ensure that Americans understand lupus, its severity and its symptoms,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Research shows that nearly two-thirds of the public knows little or nothing about lupus beyond the name. Despite the widespread prevalence of lupus, medical research has remained underfunded relative to its scope and devastation.” The Congressional Lupus Caucus is co-chaired by Reps. Tom Rooney (R-FL), William R. Keating (D-MA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX). The caucus seeks to build awareness for this chronic condition and simultaneously work to increase funding for research to improve the diagnosis and treatment of lupus. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.12.2015	Each year, from May 6th to May 12th, Americans across the country observe National Nurses Week. As the first registered nurse elected to the U.S House of Representatives, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced the National Nurses Week resolution today in recognition of nurses across the country. “This week, we honor the work of nurses and acknowledge the contributions they make every day to our health care system. They staff hospitals, nursing facilities, schools, and even private homes. Nurses not only provide essential care to their patients, but they are also health innovators. They lead the way in the research and development that yields breakthrough treatments and improves the quality of life for patients with chronic illnesses. Nurses provide premier leadership in preventive and public health. No matter the certification, each nurse is important each day to each patient. Help me celebrate National Nurses Week by recognizing the nurses in your community and nationwide.” Congresswoman Johnson continues to be a leader in the fight for expanding recognition and empowerment of nurses throughout the nation. During the 114th Congress, she introduced the National Nurse Act of 2015 with Congressman Peter King (R-NY). This act would designate the Chief Nurse Officer of the U.S. Public Health Service as the “National Nurse for Public Health.” The National Nurse for Public Health would function alongside the Surgeon General and focus on promoting health, improving healthcare literacy, and reducing health disparities. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.05.2015	DALLAS, TX – (May 5th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released a statement after a new report on the Republican Budget Conference Agreement highlights the impact the Agreement would have on future student loan borrowers. While the final Republican Budget provides more tax breaks to millionaires and special interest groups, it would increase monthly student loan payments by 50 percent for millions of future borrowers. “We need to be working to make college more affordable for middle class and working families. Instead, the Republican budget makes it more difficult for working-class families to afford college by slashing programs, like those that place limits on the amount of student loan payments,” said Congresswoman Johnson. The final Republican budget cuts current funding for higher education by $200 billion – the same cut that was in the House GOP budget. By calling for identical savings, it is apparently embracing the specific cuts in student loan programs included in the House GOP budget. The House GOP budget eliminates the current Pay As You Earn program. The Pay As You Earn program caps monthly student loan payments at 10 percent of discretionary income, instead of 15 percent, and forgives any remaining debt after 20 years of repayment. Therefore, under the Republican budget, a worker newly enrolled in the Pay As You Earn (PAYE) program, who owes $29,000 in federal student loans and earns $35,000 a year, would see an initial monthly payment increase of 50 percent, from $145 a month under the Pay As You Earn (PAYE) program to $217 a month under the less generous Income-Based Repayment (IBR) Program that would remain under the Republican budget. The House GOP budget also eliminates the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program, which forgives any remaining student loan debt for borrowers who work in public service, like teachers, after 10 cumulative years of public service. Eliminating the Pay As You Earn program would have a significant on student loan borrowers in Texas. Currently, 177,000 student loan borrowers in Texas are participating in the Pay As You Earn and Income-Based Repayment programs, with a total outstanding student loan debt of $ 8,228,631,000. The average student loan debt for all borrowers in Texas is $ 25,244. “We should be working together, on both sides of the aisle, to make sure that a college education is within reach for all Americans. It is essential to the future growth of our nation. Our children need to well educated if we are to regain our premier status in global competitiveness. We should be investing in education. Yet, while offering a $50,000 tax cut to millionaires, the Republican budget proposes to increase monthly payments for millions of hardworking college graduates. Instead of investing in our future, they are looking out for special interests.” For a copy of the report, click here. ###
05.05.2015	CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885 Washington, D.C. – (May 5th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of Cinco de Mayo: “Today marks an historic moment in Mexican history that is shared by millions of people in Mexico and by others in the United States and throughout the world. Cinco de Mayo presents all of us with a significant opportunity to celebrate and recall the valor and triumph of the Mexican Army over French forces 153 years ago. The 5th of May has served as an opportunity to honor the proud history of our Mexican neighbors and to acknowledge the contributions that generations of Mexican descendants have made to the United States. Their meaningful and rich heritage is an essential part of the American mosaic. As a member of Congress who represents a diverse congressional district, I am proud to salute those who valiantly fought to defend the Mexican government, and its people. As an ardent supporter of immigrant families in Texas and throughout our country, I will continue to support measures that urge compassionate and common sense solutions to our existing immigration system. In honor of Cinco de Mayo, and the thousands of immigrant families that have helped to shape our nation, let us renew our determination to work in a bi-partisan fashion to achieve comprehensive immigration reform that honors the heritage, the history and the values that represent the American dream.” En Español: Congresista Johnson Reconoce Cinco de Mayo Washington, DC - (05 de mayo 2015) - Hoy, la congresista Eddie Bernice Johnson emitió la siguiente declaración en observancia del Cinco de Mayo: Hoy se marca un momento glorioso en la historia de México y en la vida de las familias mexicanas en los Estados Unidos y en todo el mundo. Cinco de Mayo nos da la gran oportunidad para celebrar y recordar el valor y el triunfo del ejército mexicano sobre las fuerzas francesas hace 153 años. Desde ese día, 05 de mayo ha servido como una oportunidad para honrar a la orgullosa historia de nuestros vecinos mexicanos y reconocer las contribuciones que las generaciones de descendientes mexicanos han hecho a los Estados Unidos. Su herencia significativa y diversa es una parte esencial del mosaico americano. Como tejana y la representante de un distrito del Congreso que es rico en su diversidad, me siento orgullosa de honrar a los héroes que lucharon para defender su país contra los invasores franceses. Ese mismo espíritu está vivo hoy en la comunidad mexicana. Como un ardiente partidario de las familias inmigrantes en Texas y en todo nuestro país, voy a seguir apoyando medidas que urgen soluciones de sentido de compasión y comunes a nuestro sistema de inmigración existente. En honor del Cinco de Mayo, y las miles de familias inmigrantes que han ayudado a dar forma a nuestra nación, renovemos nuestra determinación de trabajar de manera bipartidista para lograr una reforma migratoria integral que rinde homenaje a la herencia, la historia y los valores que representan el “sueño americano ". ###
04.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Foster Youth, today introduced the “Protecting Adopted Children Act” with the bipartisan support of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Congressman Rob Wittman (R-VA). Langevin put forth similar legislation in 2013 to address an alarming and growing practice of adopted children being privately “re-homed” into the custody of strangers without oversight. “We must be more cognizant of the adopted children in this country who yearn to be part of a family,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “The Protecting Adopted Children Act will provide more stable homes through pre- and post-adoption services and strives to protect adopted children from being thrown into dangerous and unregulated situations. The bill also expands the scope of the pre-existing Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force under the Department of Justice to include combating the illegal transfer of a child. I firmly believe that this measure gives law enforcement the tools it needs to combat illegal transfers which we have learned through investigative reporting typically take place online. We must be committed to helping these children succeed in a family that they may call their own.” The Protecting Adopted Children Act provides for pre- and post-adoptive counseling and helps to fund treatments specialized for adopted children, including psychiatric residential services, outpatient mental health services, social skills training, intensive in-home supervision services, recreational therapy, suicide prevention and substance abuse treatment. Adoptive parents would have access to peer-to-peer mentoring and support groups in order to learn from adoptive parents, and could access a 24-hour emergency hotline. “All children deserve a stable, loving home, including adopted children. Too often, these at-risk youth can fall through the cracks and bounce from placement to placement, a traumatic experience for an innocent child who just wants a family and a home to call their own,” said Congressman Langevin, who hosted a roundtable discussion last year to shed light on this problem. “Since learning about this practice, I have heard a disturbing number of re-homing stories and I have personally met some of the young people affected by this epidemic. These kids need our help, and my legislation would address this issue at its root causes, establishing better pre- and post-adoptive support services that ease the transition for children and families.” “Too many children today are falling victim to a system that lacks necessary oversight,” said Congressman Wittman. “As a child of adoption myself, I am personally invested in this issue. I’m proud to support this legislation today to reduce that risk in order to better help these children find stable, loving homes and to improve support services for adoptive parents.” This year’s version of the bill additionally expands the scope of the existing Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force, which operates under the Department of Justice, to include combating the illegal transfer of a child. The ICAC Task Force was created to help law enforcement investigate child exploitation on the federal, state and local level. Including re-homing in the scope of the ICAC Task Force will give law enforcement additional tools to combat this illegal practice. ### CONTACT: Meg Geoghegan (Langevin), 401-732-9400 Yinka Robinson (Johnson), 202-225-8885 Gordon Neal (Wittman), 202-225-4261
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (April 23, 2015) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding the Senate’s confirmation of Loretta Lynch as the United States Attorney General: “After a 166-day waiting period, the Senate has finally confirmed Loretta Lynch as the United States Attorney General. Though her confirmation was long overdue, today marks a historic moment as the first African-American woman in United States history becomes our nation’s Attorney General. From her stellar record as a federal prosecutor, to her prestigious academic pedigree, her experiences have prepared her to enforce and uphold both the letter and the spirit of the United States Constitution at the highest level. Congratulations to Ms. Lynch. I am truly looking forward to her extraordinary leadership as our nation's top law enforcement officer.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
04.17.2015	Dallas, TX – (April 17th, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the annual District 30 Congressional Art Competition. Held at the Janette Kennedy Gallery, the competition was well attended with over 80 guests gathered to view submissions from across District 30. Each year, the District 30 Congressional Art Competition showcases the artistic and creative talents of students from various schools in District 30. This year’s winning submission, titled “Kameran’s Self-Portrait” by Kameran Levingston of Desoto High School was unanimously chosen by Congresswoman Johnson and an esteemed panel of judges. This year’s panel of judges included Karen Blessen, founder of 29 Pieces, an arts nonprofit organization in Dallas, Texas and Darryl Ratcliff, Community Engagement Associate for Southern Methodist University’s Meadows School of the Arts. Second place was given to Amefon Otu of South Grand Prairie High School, for the piece titled “Amefon Abassi.” Third place was given to Izabella Dekhtyar of Booker T. Washington, School of the Performing and Visual Arts for the piece titled “Beauty is in the Eye of the Beholder.” “I have always been a supporter of the arts,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I believe the arts provide a creative outlet for students within the sometimes monotonous school day. Each year, I become more diligent in my efforts to showcase the artistic talents of students in District 30. These students deserve a platform to showcase their work, and I am proud to provide such an opportunity for them.” “The quality of art submitted was truly remarkable,” said Karen Blessen, competition judge and founder of 29 Pieces arts nonprofit. “In the end it was a difficult decision to choose one winner, but we were able to come to a consensus and choose a piece truly representative of Congresswoman Johnson’s constituency.” Following the showcase in Dallas, the winning piece of student art will be sent to Washington, D.C. where it will be placed on display in the United States Capitol alongside the work of other student artists from districts across the country. If you are interested in viewing the 2015 submissions for the District 30 Congressional Art Competition while in Dallas, they will remain on display at the Janette Kennedy Gallery until Friday, April 24th. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
04.14.2015	Washington, D.C.—(April 14th, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Equal Pay Day: “ ‘Equal pay for equal work’ is a concept that both the American people and my democratic colleagues have advocated for since President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law in 1963. Millions of women are an integral part of our workforce, contributing to our economy in the same manner as their male counterparts, only to earn 78 cents on the dollar in comparison. This number decreases when we account for minority women, as African American women earn only 64 cents on the dollar, and Latina women earn 56 cents in comparison to the 78 cents their white female counterparts earn. This is not right and this is not representative of the progress women and families have made. This year, we recognize Equal Pay Day on April 14th, the day when women’s earnings beginning in January 2014 equal what men earned in the 2014 calendar year. America is known as the ‘land of opportunity,’ and not simply opportunity for the privileged few, but opportunity for all. Today, as our nation continues to grow and prosper under the Obama administration with some of the lowest unemployment rates reported since 1999 at a 5.5% unemployment rate, there is progress. In the wake of this progress we must continue to strive for equality among all. As a woman in Congress, I have seen the biases and hardships that women face firsthand. As one of the few black women in Congress and one of the longest serving, I know personally how this effects the work we do in Congress though it should not. Regardless of where you fall on the professional spectrum, whether you are a government employee, a teacher, a medical professional, or a private sector employee, equality is necessary. I believe that there should be no gender bias in the workplace. Americans deserve ‘equal pay for equal work,’ and I will continue to make this a priority of mine while serving in Congress.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
04.09.2015	Washington, D.C.—(April 9th, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after “Face the Nation” host, Bob Schieffer, announced his retirement: “For more than half a century, Bob Schieffer served the nation by covering the most pertinent issues with candor and journalistic dexterity. For the past 24 years, he served as the anchor of CBS’s ‘Face the Nation. Prior to his work with CBS, Mr. Schieffer served in the U.S. Air Force for three years. As a native Texan, he began his career in journalism as a reporter at the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, where he became the first reporter from a Texas newspaper to report from Vietnam. He is also one of only a handful of journalists in Washington to have covered the Pentagon, the White House, Congress and the State Department. Mr. Schieffer has obtained nearly every journalism award imaginable including: eight Emmys; the overseas Press Club Award; the Paul White Award presented by the TV News Directors Association; and the Edward R. Murrow Award from Washington State University, Murrow's alma mater. In 2005 my alma mater, as well as Mr. Schieffer’s, Texas Christian University, named its journalism school in his honor; and in 2013 they followed by establishing the Bob Schieffer College of Communication. The list of accolades goes on. To refer to Mr. Schieffer as a living legend somehow falls short. He is an unparalleled journalist and a pillar of American television. I am happy to congratulate Mr. Schieffer on his distinguished career, and I wish him many enjoyable years in retirement.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.31.2015	Washington, D.C. – (March 31, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement to honor the legacy of the late civil and labor rights hero, Cesar Chávez: “Eighty-eight years ago today, on March 31, 1927, the late farm labor movement leader, Cesar Chávez, was born. His extraordinary leadership and commitment to justice paved the way for civil rights movements across the United States and around the world. Through his inspired efforts, Chávez mobilized the farmworkers’ movement to ensure that agricultural laborers obtained the proper means to provide for the people of our nation, as well as their own families. His insistent, unyielding determination to win fair wages and fair treatment among America’s farm workers continues to strengthen our future. Mr. Chávez’s legacy continues to ensure that all American families have the proper resources at their disposal to obtain the American dream. His ability to effectively organize and mobilize communities of farm workers to reach a common goal is an historical act which lies at the foundation of all movements that seek equality in the workplace. Today, as the common struggle to secure equal pay for equal work, protect voting rights, raise the minimum wage and unite families by passing comprehensive immigration reform continues, we are both reminded and inspired by Chávez’s vision and iconic leadership. As we remember Mr. Chávez’s legacy, let us honor his memory by renewing our commitment to ensuring equality among all Americans. ” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.27.2015	Washington, D.C.—(March 27th, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement following the announcement of Senator Harry Reid’s retirement: "After 29 years of tireless service, Senator Harry Reid announced his retirement from the United States Senate. His service to Nevada and the United States is a testament to his selfless dedication to our country. In addition to his exemplary service to the people of Nevada and the nation, I commend Mr. Reid for his leadership as the Senate Democratic Leader. He is one of the greatest strategists we have experienced in the entire Congress. Because of his outstanding leadership, we have seen many legislative successes that have helped rescue our economy. Under the leadership of Mr. Reid, we passed the landmark Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. We also passed the Affordable Care Act to ensure that, in the United States of America, affordable, quality health care is the right of every American, not the privileged few. I am also proud to have worked with Mr. Reid on the Violence Against Women Act. He also oversaw the confirmation of numerous Democratic nominees to various appointments. I would like to thank Mr. Reid for his commitment to our country, which serves as a model for other national leaders. Thank you for your extraordinary service." ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—(March 26, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding passage of the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act by the House of Representatives: “Today, I was proud to vote for the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act, because I recognize the impact this bill will have on the people of Texas and throughout our country. This bill addresses numerous key priorities that will benefit America’s children, seniors, and families. Those priorities include a permanent fix to the sustainable growth rate (SGR) that will transition Medicare from a volume-based system to a value-based system. Successful passage of the bill will secure access to healthcare for low-income children by providing a two-year extension of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) at the same rates as the plans provided by the Affordable Care Act. Now is the time to extend CHIP since many states, including Texas, are developing their budgets for FY 2016, and they need assurance that millions of children will not lose access to the health care they need. The Medicare Access & CHIP Reauthorization Act provides $7.2 billion in funding for Community Health Centers (CHCs) over the next two years. Additionally, the bill extends funding to the National Health Service Corps and Teaching Health Centers for two more years. It provides $620 million for the National Health Service Corps and $120 million for Teaching Health Centers. While I am disappointed that that the bill includes a Hyde Amendment rider, which restricts a woman’s right to make choices about her own reproductive health, this language does not further expand the Hyde Amendment. In practice, Community Health Centers have been subject to this restriction since the Hyde Amendment was introduced and enacted each year since 1979. While not perfect, this legislation was reached through bipartisan collaboration, and I am pleased that lawmakers were able to work together to resolve the flawed SGR formula, known as the ‘doc-fix.’ This bipartisan measure contains numerous provisions that will move both, Texas and our country forward, by providing seniors, children, and families with the level of health security they deserve.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—(March 25, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement regarding her decision to vote no against the proposed Republican Budget and the impacts the proposal could have on the people of Texas. The resolution was agreed to as amended on a vote of 228—199. “The GOP budget significantly undermines the economic and health security of the people of Texas. In the state of Texas alone the proposed budget would place an unnecessary economic burden on seniors by increasing the cost of prescriptions in the future and eliminating guaranteed access to Medicare. Although statistics show that the Affordable Care Act is working through the 16 million Americans that have gained coverage, the GOP budget would eliminate coverage for more than 1.2 million Texans receiving coverage through the marketplace. The House Republican budget ransacks our nation’s commitment to education – the foundation for economic opportunity and a successful future – with severe cuts in elementary and secondary education and early learning programs, including measures which make college less affordable for millions of students who rely on Pell Grants, federal student loans, and higher education tax credits. In addition to students, the proposed Republican budget threatens workers, women and children. Under the Republican budget, middle class families will see higher taxes and millions will see fewer jobs. The last thing that hard-working Texas families can afford right now is higher taxes, fewer jobs and less growth. This budget would cut our investments in our nation’s R&D and innovation enterprise -- the investments that have allowed us to be a world leader in these fields. If we shortchange those accounts in an attempt to cut a few more dollars from the deficit over the short-term, the reality is that we will wind up shortchanging our future economy and quality of life for decades to come. We need a better plan and a better set of values to build a strong and prosperous America. I support a budget that would aid the American people by advancing our healthcare system, securing a pathway to proper funding for medical advancements and ensuring affordable healthcare for all. I support a budget that values the future of America’s role in STEM advancements through technological innovation and scientific research. I support a budget that would lower taxes for working families and students; and a budget that would make sound investments in programs like HeadStart. I support a budget that would reinvigorate our infrastructure through highway and mass transit planning and investment. As it stands, the Republican budget does not bring all of these options to the table. Though we may not always agree, as lawmakers, we must set aside our own political agendas by joining together to pass legislation that benefits all Americans. I support the President’s FY16 and committing to more robust investments in our future economic prosperity.” For the full report from the White House and a breakdown of the Republican budgets’ effect on Texans, click here ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.24.2015	DALLAS, TX – (March 24, 2015) —On Saturday, March 21st, more than two hundred teachers, administrators, public officials and parents converged upon Desoto High School in Desoto, Texas for Congresswoman Johnson’s Education Initiative: Embracing the Vision for Early Childhood Education in District 30. During the summit, attendees engaged in exciting panel discussions and breakout sessions led by nationally renowned experts in early childhood education and education strategies, including educators from the Cedar Hill, Dallas, Desoto, Duncanville, Grand Prairie and Lancaster Independent School Districts. Along with Congresswoman Johnson, summit event planning was facilitated by two former State Board of Education members; Dr. Rosie Collins Sorrells and Mrs. Mavis B. Knight, along with the assistance of Mrs. Verna Mitchell and Mrs. Gloria Lett. “Education is so intimately intertwined with the American Dream and our story as a nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson as she addressed the group during the keynote address. “It is the ladder upon which children climb as they reach for their dreams and achieve their potential. Education is more than what happens in a classroom, it is built upon a continuum services provided by parents, educators and the community. It takes a village to ensure that our children benefit from the promise of America, and today, District 30 will explore options for becoming a village that provides all of our children, regardless of race or socio-economic status, with equal access to the path of opportunity.” The crowd was addressed via video by Dr. Libby Doggett, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy and Early Learning, who stressed the importance of effective strategies for parent-community engagement. Former superintendent of the Dallas Independent School District (DISD), Dr. Nolan Estes, along with superintendents from participating school districts in District 30, emphasized that educational professionals on the national, state and local levels must work together to embrace early childhood education as a building block for academic success. Additional panelists included college presidents, principals, teachers, retired educators, hospital administrators and parents who gathered to express their views regarding the importance of early childhood education. Retired Dallas educators, Dr. Roscoe Smith and Dr. Alfred Roberts, who are the guiding forces behind the Coalition for an Accountable System of Education, also participated in the summit. “We must ensure that our young people are well-educated,” said Desoto Mayor, Carl Sherman, who thanked Congresswoman Johnson for her work in Washington regarding education. “Our Congresswoman gets it,” he said. “Early childhood education matters.” “I am very proud of the outstanding work that is taking place in District 30 regarding education,” said Congresswoman Johnson in closing remarks. “I am also proud and unequivocally supportive of the President’s dedication to increasing the investment in early childhood education efforts. I am equally excited about the visionary leadership of Secretary Duncan and Deputy Assistant Secretary, Dr. Libby Doggett. I believe their vision will be transformative. I am looking forward to working with all of you to close the achievement gap.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (March 23, 2015) —Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the fifth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “Five years ago, we witnessed President Obama sign into law one of the most influential pieces of legislation of our time, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). As a result of the enactment of the ACA, quality, affordable health insurance coverage was made available to millions of Americans across the country. Today, 16.4 million Americans have been able to obtain the health insurance coverage they deserve. Additionally, Congress extended the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by more than a decade. The Affordable Care Act helped to save taxpayers $116 billion through new Medicare efficiencies. More than 9 million seniors have saved over $15 billion on prescription drugs, and 105 million Americans no longer live under the threat of an annual or lifetime limit on their health insurance coverage. Overall, the Affordable Care Act has helped to decrease the uninsured rate by 7.1 percent in this country. As we celebrate the fifth anniversary of the ACA, I continue to stand by my decision to support the legislation. Newly released evidence from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) report, “Health Insurance Coverage and the Affordable Care Act,” released on March 16, 2015, shows that the Affordable Care Act is working, and families, businesses, and individuals are better off as a result. In the coming years, I look forward to seeing additional outstanding results. When lawmakers collaborate to provide better opportunities for their constituents, America thrives.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.— (March 16, 2015) —Today, Congresswoman Johnson highlighted that a new report shows that 16.4 million uninsured people have gained coverage since the Affordable Care Act was enacted in 2010. “This new report continues to highlight the success of the Affordable Care Act– showing that more than 16 million uninsured Americans have been able to obtain quality, affordable coverage since the ACA became law nearly five years ago on March 23, 2010,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Specifically, the 16.4 million Americans who have gained coverage include: 14.1 million adults who have gained health insurance coverage since the beginning of Open Enrollment under the Affordable Care Act in October 2013; and 2.3 million young adults who have gained coverage since the enactment of ACA in 2010 due to the ACA provision allowing young adults to remain on a parent’s plan until age 26. Additionally, the new report shows that the ACA has made progress in addressing high uninsured rates in Latino and African American communities. Since October 2013, the uninsured rates among these minority groups have dropped more dramatically than the rate among Whites: Among Latinos, the uninsured rate has dropped by 12.3 percentage points – resulting in 4.2 million gaining health coverage; and Among African Americans, the uninsured rate has dropped by 9.2 percentage points – resulting in 2.3 million obtaining coverage. These reductions in uninsured rates are due to three key provisions in the ACA: the availability of affordable insurance through Health Insurance Marketplaces, the expansion of Medicaid, and allowing young people (up to age 26) to stay on their parents’ plans. “When it comes to the key measures of affordability, access, and quality, evidence shows that the Affordable Care Act is working, and families, businesses, and taxpayers are better off as a result,” concluded Congresswoman Johnson. For a copy of the HHS report, click here. # # # U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.09.2015	Dallas, Texas—(March 9, 2015)— Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that she has selected Trudy Lewis, currently the City Manager for Glenn Heights, as her new District Director effective April 1st, 2015. "I am delighted that Trudy Lewis has agreed to come and serve the 30th Congressional District of Texas," said Congresswoman Johnson. "With deep knowledge of the landscape of Dallas and Texas, as well as extensive policy and constituent service experience, Mrs. Lewis' expertise will be an invaluable asset as I continue to serve my constituents. I am confident that she will make an effective District Director for my Congressional office." Trudy Lewis brings with her a decade of municipal experience and currently serves as the City Manager of Glenn Heights. Her previous professional experience includes progressive roles with the City of Arlington and the City of Irving. She received awards from the City of Arlington for excellence in 2009, 2010, and 2011. Mrs. Lewis has a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Political Science from Spelman College in Atlanta, GA, a Master of Public Affairs Degree, with a concentration in Public Management, and a Certificate of Non-profit Management from the University of Texas at Dallas. Mrs. Lewis participated in the 2013 Class of Leadership Arlington and the 2014 Class of Leadership Southwest. She currently serves on the Best Southwest Partnership Visioning and Legislative Committees and the 2014-15 Leadership Southwest Board. Trudy Lewis is the proud mother of three children: Amarie, Bradley, and Zachary and is married to Barry Lewis, CPA. # # # U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.09.2015	Dallas, Texas—(March 9, 2015)— Today, Congresswoman Johnson hosted the annual “30th Congressional District Prayer Breakfast.” The event was well attended with more than 100 guests returning to experience what has become one of the Congresswoman’s signature events for the last 23 years. “No life is worth living without the presence of God,” said Congresswoman Johnson as she opened the two-hour event. “These are very trying times in Washington,” she said. “Through them, I have learned the strength of prayer…Thank you for praying for both me and efforts in Congress.” The breakfast keynote speaker, Reverend Larry James, the CEO of CitySquare, a Dallas-based non-profit that advocates for those living in poverty, said “all of God’s children are worthy of respect. We must work to improve the social conditions that some of our fellow citizens confront each and every day.” Central to Congresswoman Johnson’s mission is “a devotion to solving problems that many people faced, and enriching the lives of all people”, said Reverend James. “I have voted for her in each election, and I will continue to vote for and support her efforts because she has the best interests of those she serves at heart.” “We are a nation governed by a constitution that recognizes the equality of people of all religions,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In our country, and certainly in District 30 all people are welcome regardless of their religious background.” # # # U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
03.04.2015	Shared by the office of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson… Washington, D.C.—Today, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, along with Reps. Joaquín Castro (D-TX), Danny Davis (D-IL), Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Robin Kelly (D-IL), and John Lewis (D-GA) sent a letter to the U.S. Comptroller General requesting that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) examine the current status of modernizing voting equipment technology in state and local jurisdictions and the potential challenges that can result in using outdated voting machines. “According to a recent report by the Presidential Commission on Election Administration, the state of U.S. voting machines is an ‘impending crisis’ because ‘a large share of the nation’s voting machines are now almost a decade old and starting to break down,’” the Members wrote. “The report concludes that existing voting machines are reaching the end of their operational life spans, and that ‘with no federal appropriations on the horizon, election authorities are on their own to do more with less.’” In their letter, the Members raised concerns that reports from “individual states confirm that outdated voting equipment is a growing and widespread problem across the country.” For example: Voters in Illinois reported inoperable voting machines, forcing them to use “old school paper forms.” In Maryland, although state regulations mandate that each precinct provide at least one touchscreen machine for every 200 registered voters, “twenty of the state’s 24 jurisdictions failed to meet this standard during the last presidential election.” There were numerous reports of “machines switching votes in Ohio” in 2012. Texas and Georgia had “glitchy electronic voting machines on Election Day. … Some machines simply wouldn’t boot up, and others unexpectedly shut down. Faulty touch screens were another issue—some registered a vote for the wrong candidate, while others just went blank.” The Members also expressed concern that many eligible U.S. citizens do not vote in federal elections, despite efforts by some federal, state, and local governments to expand early and absentee voting. According to one report, although 58.2% of eligible citizens voted in the November 2012 general election, that figure dropped to 36.3% in the November 2014 midterm elections, the worst turnout rate in 72 years. This year is the 50th Anniversary of the Voting Rights Act. The Members asked GAO to examine a series of issues, including challenges state and local jurisdictions face due to aging voting systems; how existing federal standards impact the development of new voting systems; the benefits and challenges of using updated electronic voting machines; the benefits and challenges of implementing Election Day voter registration for state and local governments; and policies other than Election Day voter registration that research and available data have shown to increase turnout among eligible voters. Click here and see below to read the full letter: March 4, 2015 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro Comptroller General U.S. Government Accountability Office 441 G Street, NW Washington, DC 20548 Dear Mr. Comptroller General: We are writing to request that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) examine the current status of modernizing voting equipment technology in state and local jurisdictions and the potential challenges that can result from the use of outdated voting machines. More than 12 years ago, Congress passed the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA).[1] HAVA provided for funding to encourage states to replace older voting equipment with voting methods that incorporated modern technology—such as optical scanning and direct recording electronic (touch screen) voting devices—and to meet the Act’s requirements related to voting system standards. According to a recent report by the Presidential Commission on Election Administration, the state of U.S. voting machines is an “impending crisis” because “a large share of the nation’s voting machines are now almost a decade old and starting to break down.” The report concludes that existing voting machines are reaching the end of their operational life spans, and that “with no federal appropriations on the horizon, election authorities are on their own to do more with less.”[2] Reports from individual states confirm that outdated voting equipment is a growing and widespread problem across the country. For example, during the 2014 election cycle, voters in Illinois reported inoperable voting machines, forcing them to use “old school paper forms.”[3] In Maryland, although state regulations mandate that each precinct provide at least one touchscreen machine for every 200 registered voters, “twenty of the state’s 24 jurisdictions failed to meet this standard during the last presidential election.”[4] In 2012, there were numerous reports of “machines switching votes in Ohio.”[5] Similarly, a report by Verified Voting found: Texas and Georgia struggled the most with glitchy electronic voting machines on Election Day. … Some machines simply wouldn’t boot up, and others unexpectedly shut down. Faulty touch screens were another issue—some registered a vote for the wrong candidate, while others just went blank.[6] Voting is fundamental to our democracy, yet many U.S. citizens who are eligible do not vote in federal elections. For example, although 58.2% of eligible citizens voted in the November 2012 general election, that figure dropped to 36.3% in the November 2014 midterm elections, the worst turnout rate in 72 years.[7] Some federal, state, and local governments have attempted to make voting easier by expanding early and absentee voting. Despite these efforts, GAO reported in 2012 that there is limited evidence to show that these interventions increased turnout overall or among groups that historically had lower levels of turnout.[8] In order to assess the challenges to modernizing voting technology and the potential impacts of efforts to increase voter turnout, we request that GAO address the questions below: What challenges do states and local jurisdictions face due to aging voting systems, how does the impact of aging voting technology vary across state and local jurisdictions, and what opportunities exist for states and localities to upgrade their voting systems? How do existing federal standards impact the development of new voting systems? What are the benefits of using updated electronic voting machines, and what challenges exist in their widespread use? What are the benefits and challenges of implementing Election Day voter registration for state and local governments, and what do research and available data suggest about the potential impacts of these policies on voter turnout? What policies other than Election Day voter registration have research and available data shown to increase turnout among eligible voters, including policies implemented by state and local governments? Thank you for your consideration of this request. If you have questions regarding this matter, please contact Donald K. Sherman of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform staff at (202) 225-5051. Sincerely, Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD) Rep. Joaquín Castro (D-TX) Rep. Danny Davis (D-IL) Rep. Tammy Duckworth (D-IL) Rep. Marcia Fudge (D-OH) Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA) Rep. Robin Kelly (D-IL) Rep. John Lewis (D-GA)
03.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (March 2, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) released the following statement on her decision to not attend tomorrow’s joint session speech by Benjamin Netanyahu: “I believe our country’s relationship with Israel is too important to be used as a pawn in a game of politics. Aside from threatening diplomatic priorities, the timing of Speaker Boehner’s invitation offers Congress a platform to elevate a candidate in a foreign election. In response, I joined several members of Congress in sending a letter to Speaker Boehner urging him to reconsider and postpone his invitation to Prime Minister Netanyahu. Once the deadline for diplomatic negotiations with Iran and the Israeli election has passed, my colleagues and I would be honored to welcome the Israeli Prime Minister to address a joint session of Congress.” CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.—(February 27, 2015)—On Wednesday, Congresswoman Johnson took steps to prevent the Republican shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security by voting to have the House consider a clean funding bill that could be signed into law before the essential agency is forced to shut down on Saturday. A shutdown would result in the need to furlough or deny pay to 26,706 law enforcement officials, disaster response officials, and many other DHS personnel in Texas alone. In fiscal year 2014, the Homeland Security Grant Program under the Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI) awarded Dallas/Ft. Worth $15.5 mil, $23,124,196 mil under Operation Stonegarden (OSPG) and the Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NGSP) awarded $299,995 to the state of Texas. If Republicans continue to move forward with these actions, millions of dollars in DHS related funding would be at stake, negatively impacting the state of Texas for the long-term. This is the third time House Democrats have moved for a vote to end this Republicans manufactured crisis, and the third time House Republicans have blocked action. “The Department of Homeland Security will be forced to shut down tomorrow. Despite dire warnings from Members of their own Party, House Republicans voted to block a clean funding bill that could keep our communities safe,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our national security is too important, and the world is far too dangerous for the Republican Congress to play these irresponsible, reckless games. The people of District 30 deserve better than to have Republicans continue to gamble with America’s homeland security. Without action today, the bulk of DHS’s management and support of the homeland security infrastructure built following the 9/11 terrorist attacks would be shattered. Law enforcement officials, border patrol agents, disaster response officials, counterterrorism experts and other DHS personnel who work tirelessly every day to keep our nation safe would either be furloughed or required to work without pay.” # # # U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.19.2015	Washington, D.C.—(February 19, 2015)—Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the Lunar New Year: “As Asian Americans and families around the world celebrate the Lunar New Year, we welcome the Year of the Ram by expressing gratitude and sharing warm wishes for all. In District 30 and across America, Asian American and Pacific Islander communities continually remind us of how truly rich and diverse the culture of America has become.” “I believe diversity is what makes this country great. The customs, traditions, and ideals of all Americans reflect the beautifully woven fabric of the American way, now and in the future. As the lunar new year begins, I will continue to support and work toward establishing comprehensive immigration reform that reflects the ideal upon which our country was founded. “In the Year of the Ram, may all our families be blessed with the security of good health, the warmth of good company, and the joy of good fortune.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.18.2015	Washington, D.C.—(February 18, 2015)—On February 15, 2015, the second year of Open Enrollment came to a close with 1,189,316 Texas consumers selecting a plan or being automatically re-enrolled in quality, affordable coverage through the Health Insurance Marketplace. Nationwide, about 11.4 million Americans selected Marketplace plans or were automatically re-enrolled, including about 8.6 million people in the states that use the HealthCare.gov platform (such as Texas), and about 2.8 million in the State Based Marketplaces based on those states’ preliminary data. “It brings me great pleasure to learn that the Dallas-Ft. Worth area had the highest number of sign-ups in Texas during this year’s open enrollment period,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “With more than 330,000 people starting the process to become enrolled in affordable healthcare options through the Affordable Care Act, I am confident that the people of North Texas will continue to grow closer toward achieving access to healthcare and quality coverage options they deserve.” “We had a strong open enrollment. About 11.4 million Americans signed up or were automatically re-enrolled in affordable, quality coverage nationwide since November 15,” HHS Secretary M. Sylvia Burwell said. “And in the final day, more new consumers signed up for health coverage than on any other day this Open Enrollment or last. In the 37 states using HealthCare.gov, nearly 8 in 10 consumers had the option of getting covered for as little as $100 a month or less with financial assistance that lowered the cost of their monthly premium…They finally have the financial and health security that comes with affordable health coverage…The Affordable Care Act is working, and families, businesses, and taxpayers are all better off as a result.” Today’s Weekly Enrollment Snapshot also includes data for select local areas through Feb.15 - • 334,467 consumers in the Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan • 317,223 consumers in the Houston-The Woodlands-Sugar Land, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan • 110,805 consumers in the San Antonio-New Braunfels, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan • 101,244 consumers in the Austin-Round Rock, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan • 54,117 consumers in the El Paso, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan • 34,241 consumers in the McAllen-Edinburg-Mission, TX local area selected or were automatically enrolled in a plan Five Facts about Open Enrollment in Texas: At the end of Open Enrollment on Feb. 15th , 1,189,316 Texas consumers had selected a plan or were automatically re-enrolled. 86 percent of Texas consumers who were signed up as of Jan. 30 qualify for an average tax credit of $242 per month through the Marketplace. In Texas, consumers could choose from 15 issuers in the Marketplace in 2015 – up from 12 in 2014. Texas consumers could choose from an average of 31 health plans in their county for 2015 coverage – up from 25 in 2014. 5. 80 percent of Texas Marketplace enrollees as of December 2014 could have obtained coverage for $100 or less after any applicable tax credits in 2015. Officials from HHS are available for print, radio and television interviews to discuss Open Enrollment in Texas. Satellite TV interviews are also available. To request an interview with an official from HHS, email press@cms.hhs.gov. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.17.2015	Dallas, Texas – (February 17, 2015) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman, the chief official in President Obama’s cabinet for trade policy, in Dallas to showcase Texas’s standing as the state that exports the most Made-in-America goods in the United States. Congresswoman Johnson, Ambassador Froman, and Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings toured Mary Kay Manufacturing to highlight the impact of global trade on local and state economics. In 2013, Texas exported $279.5 billion of Made-in-America goods to the world, supporting over an estimated 1.1 million jobs. The metropolitan area of Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington alone exported $27.6 billion of Made-in-America goods to the world, making it the country’s 9th largest metropolitan exporter. “Texas is the number one state in the country when it comes to exports,” said U.S. Trade Representative Michael Froman. “And those exports, like the products manufactured here by Mary Kay, are estimated to support over a million jobs.” Congresswoman Johnson also hosted a trade roundtable featuring Ambassador Froman at the Dallas Regional Chamber in order to bring stakeholders to the table to discuss the Trans-Pacific Partnership and the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. “Our economy here in Dallas depends on trade,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As TPP and T-TIP negotiations continue, my goal today was to provide local union and Chamber of Commerce leaders with the opportunity to discuss trade provisions with the U.S. Trade Representative.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.13.2015	Washington, DC – (Friday, February 13th, 2015) – On Thursday, February 12th , 2015, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Congressman Tim Murphy (R-PA) co-hosted a bipartisan briefing titled “Confusion as an Obstacle to Treatment: A Briefing on the HIPAA Privacy Rule” in conjunction with the Treatment Advocacy Center. The Health Insurance and Portability and Accountability Act was passed in 1996 in order to improve the continuity of insurance coverage and to combat waste, fraud, and abuse within healthcare. The HIPAA Privacy Rule, which ensures protection of confidential healthcare information, has resulted in confusion and obstacles to treatment within the mental health and substance use disorder communities. “HIPAA was designed to protect patients by keeping their medical records confidential,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While the majority of the medical community has seen positive results from HIPAA, individuals with mental illness and substance use disorders often face obstacles to treatment because of the Privacy Rule within HIPAA. First, we must strive to make HIPAA clearer to providers, patients, and loved ones. Second, we must work to remove the barriers that parents and caregivers of individuals with serious mental illness (SMI) face when seeking treatment for their loved ones.” “HIPAA blocks families from communicating with doctors about a loved one with a serious mental illness, and the results are often tragic,” said Congressman Murphy. “Our legislation, the Helping Families In Mental Health Crisis Act, will clarify HIPAA so families are part of the frontline care delivery team and are empowered to help those they love.” During the briefing, panelists shared stories about their personal and professional encounters with the HIPAA Privacy Rule. Mark Filler of the Jordan Michael Filler Foundation and Kathy Harkey of NAMI-Central Virginia told stories of loved ones who lost their lives as a result of mental illness or substance abuse; Mike Gimbel highlighted his personal experience with addiction and his professional experience as the former Drug Czar of Baltimore County; and Dr. Michael Morse provided the valuable perspective of a resident psychiatric physician at George Washington University Hospital. Each panelist noted that HIPAA regulations force unnecessary hardship on patients, their families, and providers as they seek or provide treatment. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.10.2015	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, February 10th, 2015) – Today, the National Cancer Institute announced that UT Southwestern Medical Center along with a consortia of Texas research entities would be awarded one of two major advanced planning grants to establish the country’s first National Center for Heavy Ion Radiation Therapy. Once built this new facility would be the first of its kind in the U.S. providing clinical care and research utilizing heavy particle treatment for innovative methods of cancer treatment. Last October, Congresswoman Johnson wrote a letter urging the White House to take into consideration UT-Southwestern’s existing particle therapy research infrastructure and expertise in leading cancer treatment research in the U.S. when selecting the planning grant award recipients. The planned center would serve as a research adjunct to an independently created and funded, sustainable clinical facility for particle beam radiation therapy. Currently, the planning grant includes pilot projects that will enable a research agenda in particle beam delivery systems, dosimetry, radiation biology, and/or translational pre-clinical studies. “The newly awarded advanced planning grant for UT Southwestern Medical Center is exactly the type of medical and technological advancement the DFW metroplex needs and the type of federal investment we need to continue to lead the world in state-of-the-art medical research,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Not only is this grant a major advancement for STEM, it is a crucial step in the right direction for cancer research and those affected by cancer here in the United States.” First developed in the 1980s at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, heavy ion therapy is the most precise and potent form of irradiation for cancer patients, more effective than conventional proton or electron-based forms of treatment which are used to treat the majority of cancer patients in the U.S. Already, the use of heavy ion therapy has expanded worldwide with eight operational centers in China, Germany, Italy, and Japan with additional facilities under construction in Austria, South Korea and France. The National Center for Heavy Ion Radiation Therapy, targeted for completion in 2021, will require a combination of federal, state, and private funding for construction and ongoing research. Potential economic impact estimates for Texas are more than $600 million, with 130 new high-level jobs created and 2,000 annual out-of-town visitors. About UT Southwestern Medical Center UT Southwestern, one of the premier academic medical centers in the nation, integrates pioneering biomedical research with exceptional clinical care and education. The institution’s faculty includes many distinguished members, including six who have been awarded Nobel Prizes since 1985. Numbering approximately 2,800, the faculty is responsible for groundbreaking medical advances and is committed to translating science-driven research quickly to new clinical treatments. UT Southwestern physicians provide medical care in 40 specialties to about 92,000 hospitalized patients and oversee approximately 2.1 million outpatient visits a year. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
02.04.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (February 4, 2015)—On Monday, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced that it would award a $ 7.6 million advance grant to the Dallas Area Rapid Transit Authority (DART). The grant made under the Federal Transit Administration’s—Research, Development, Demonstration and Deployment of Low or No Emission Vehicle Deployment Project was granted under Section 1531 of the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act. As an affordable means of transportation for the people of Dallas and the surrounding communities, DART offers a cost efficient means of travel, which contributes to the global need for environmentally-conscious methods of travel. Furthermore, as DART seeks to expand its “light rail” system, the allocation of advance grant funds will aid in jumpstarting projects that are likely to have substantial economic and environmental impact in the DFW metroplex. “As a policymaker for more than 20 years, I have been dedicated to bringing affordable and accessible means of travel to the people of District 30. Department of Transportation grants of this measure are much needed in our efforts to move public transportation in Dallas forward,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Every day the people of Dallas and the surrounding metroplex seek a more efficient means of daily travel. Since the opening of its first 11.2 miles of light rail in 1996, DART has sought to offer such an alternative. I look forward to seeing the increased level of accessibility new DART projects will bring to the city.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
01.22.2015	Washington, DC— (January 22, 2015) —Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted against a House measure that would further limit women’s health care. This afternoon, the House considered H.R. 7, the “No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2015,” a bill which would strictly limit a woman’s right to choose. “This legislation is a direct attack on women’s reproductive freedom and access to health care,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The goal of the Affordable Care Act is to provide millions of Americans with access to quality, affordable health insurance. H.R. 7 is just another tactic to undermine what has already been mandated by law. The ACA provides coverage for well-woman routine care that includes improved access to education and family planning. This coverage is designed to inform women of their options and I strongly encourage each woman to know what resources they can access based on their health insurance. These efforts encourage more women to prevent unplanned pregnancy or consider arranging an adoption rather than opting for abortion.” Congresswoman Johnson added “however, I strongly believe that the decision to have an abortion is a personal choice made by a woman and her physician, not by the federal government. This bill places an unnecessary burden on women seeking to make a private decision, and I strongly oppose any legislation that inhibits a woman’s right to choose.” Despite the title of the bill, there is currently no federal taxpayer funding for abortion. The Hyde Amendment, which first became law in 1976 prevents taxpayer dollars from being used to perform abortions. The existing language of H.R. 7 takes choice restrictions several steps farther by dictating how women with private health insurance can spend private dollars on health care. In doing so, the passage of this legislation will undoubtedly jeopardize the availability of private insurance coverage of abortion services. In addition, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) makes no effort to withhold information from the American people. Yet H.R. 7 will force insurance plans to openly mislead consumers regarding the ACA’s treatment of abortion coverage. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202) 225-8885
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, January 20, 2015) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following responses to President Obama’s State of the Union address: On “America’s College Promise Proposal:” “I support President Obama and the “America’s College Promise Proposal.” As the cost of a four-year degree rises, it is becoming increasingly more difficult for all students to seek higher education in a formidable and economical manner. This new initiative grants those who believe college is not an option, an opportunity to grow one step closer to reaching their goals in higher education without a significant monetary cost. Whether previous deterrents were related to economic, social, or academic reasons the new proposal grants interested students the ability to benefit from higher education. Through the introduction of this new proposal, the hope is that they are compelled to continue on to a four-year institution.” On Affordable Homeownership: “While homeownership in the United States is recovering, more must be done to build a robust and fair housing system that promotes the American Dream of owning a home. While it is true that our housing market is rebounding, home values are rising and home sales are increasing we must continue to strive for more. The goal should be restoring the true value of homeownership and to rebuild communities hit hardest by the foreclosure crisis.” On Raising the Minimum Wage: “The President’s remarks during this evening’s address highlighted growing issues with America’s existing Minimum Wage. As it stands today, minimum wage earners are not positioned to sustain a livable income. I agree with the President. This is not acceptable, one cannot live on $15,000 or less a year, as policymakers we must be proactive in changing it. However, in order to implement and sustain these needed changes for the future, it is imperative that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle be open to working together to create a version of America where all citizens can achieve the economic security they deserve.” On Early Childhood Education: “Investing in early childhood education is a smart investment for families, communities, and the nation. I support President Obama’s decision to make these investments in the future of our young people. Early childhood education is a critical piece of the education puzzle that we must all be willing to invest in. No child should be a victim of academic inequality, and it is our duty to ensure that this cycle does not continue. I believe programs proposed by the Obama administration are essential for equalizing education standards amongst all people. Providing an opportunity for every child to begin their education in the best possible environment will result in a brighter future for all children regardless of socio-economic background.” On Clean Energy Reform: “The time to ensure American energy independence by investing in clean energy is now. I enthusiastically support the President’s Climate Action Plan to position the United States as the global leader on the critical issue of climate change. We know that the Earth is warming; sea ice is disappearing; glaciers are receding; oceans are acidifying, and we are bearing the brunt of more frequent and severe weather incidents. Evidenced-based science and peer-reviewed research has proven well beyond the point of debate that America must meet the challenges ahead and fulfill our moral obligation to future generations. We must aggressively tackle climate change, invest in robust research and innovation of renewable energy sources. We must also drastically reduce our reliance on foreign oil and fossil fuels. These initiatives are essential to our national security and the health of our shared global community.” On Tax-Reform Legislation: “I firmly believe that this Congress needs to enact fiscally sound, long-term tax reform legislation to encourage further growth of our economy. American families and businesses deserve fairness from their tax system and enacting long-term reforms will make this possible. This will help us get our fiscal house in order and restore the chance for everyone to achieve the American Dream.” On Immigration Reform: “While the President took action on immigration several weeks ago, I commend his continued push for a comprehensive immigration system. The first lady’s decision to include a DREAMer as one of her honored guests this evening, as well as the President’s Executive Order on immigration are, testaments to the importance this administration places on immigration. We must continue to be proactive on the issue of immigration. Many individuals come to our great nation looking for opportunities of a better life. I believe that we must have a responsible pathway to citizenship for these hardworking individuals, while continuing to protect our borders. This Congress, must come together to create a plan that is truly comprehensive.” On High-Tech Innovation: “As the United States continues to become deeply immersed in the culture of high-tech innovation, we must be strategic in preparing the future workforce. I am a strong supporter of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education. We must implement educational policy that increases the number of students graduating in STEM fields. Our country has a demand for high-skilled workers, and we must provide the resources our students need to excel in these innovative careers. Our emphasis in STEM subjects must continue in order to ensure that the United States remains competitive on the global stage.” On Medical Research: “I agree with the Presidents in his notion to invest federal dollars in our medical research agencies so that they can each perform the vital work that helps us discover causes, treat disease, and find cures. These agencies not only help to save lives, they also provide high-paying jobs that we must keep here in this country.” On Veterans Issues: “As a former VA nurse, and the only to serve in Congress, I understand well the unique demands and medical needs that our Nation’s veterans require in terms of patient care. While I am pleased with the progress the VA has been able to achieve since last year’s unspeakable wait time scandals, there is still far too much work to be done. We must continue to be tenacious in ensuring that we keep our promise to the brave men and women that risk their lives abroad to protect our freedoms here at home.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
01.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (January 14, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congressman Peter King (R-NY) reintroduced the National Nurse Act of 2015 in the 114th Congress. The National Nurse Act works to move preventative health forward by designating the acting Chief Nurse Officer as the National Nurse for Public Health. This position would provide a publicly visible nurse leader who would function alongside the Surgeon General and collaborate with health care leaders to address health disparities, set goals to improve the health of Americans, and raise the profile of the entire U.S. Public Health Service. Chronic conditions, such as heart disease, cancer, and obesity pose the greatest threat to the health of Americans and our nation's economy. Nurses provide key services for the prevention and management of these conditions, and this legislation is necessary to support further work needed to promote prevention, improve outcomes, and guide national, state and local efforts in addressing the nation's health. With approximately 3,100,000 registered nurses, nursing represents the single largest component of the health care profession. Each day, each and every nurse is positioned to move the nation toward improved public health. “We firmly believe that designating the Chief Nurse Officer as the National Nurse for Public Health is a common sense, cost-effective step toward improving the health and wellness of our great country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Health care professionals are poised to lead the national movement toward improving public health, and the National Nurse for Public Health would provide the uniting voice and leadership to do so. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – (January 13, 2015)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson applauded the swift, unanimous House passage of H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act – bipartisan legislation originally introduced in the 113th Congress, but blocked by a single U.S. Senator – to address the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. “One veteran lost to suicide is one veteran too many,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This bipartisan legislation provides our heroes the care and support they have earned and deserve to overcome mental health challenges, traumatic brain injuries, and post-traumatic stress disorder. I was proud to support this legislation to ensure our nation stands behind our brave veterans with compassion and dedication every day.” Twenty-two veterans commit suicide daily – more than 8,000 every year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. Named in honor of late Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate who committed suicide on March 31, 2011, The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 203) is another step toward ensuring our nation’s veterans have the support they need by expanding access to and improving the effectiveness of mental health care for our veterans. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act will establish a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members with accessing VA mental health care services. To ease access to services, the bill will require the VA to create a one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans. A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists included in the legislation will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals. To improve care, the legislation will require an annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what’s working and what’s not. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.09.2014	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, December 9, 2014) — Today, Congresswoman Johnson applauded the unanimous House passage of bipartisan legislation to address the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. “One veteran lost to suicide is one veteran too many,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This bipartisan legislation provides our heroes with the care and support they’ve earned in order to overcome any mental health challenges, traumatic brain injuries, and post-traumatic stress disorders they might suffer from. It was my honor to support this legislation, to ensure our nation is dedicated to standing behind our brave veterans with compassion every day.” Twenty-two veterans commit suicide every day – this amounts to more than 8,000 every year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. Named in honor of an Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate who took his own life on March 31, 2011, The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 5059) is another step toward ensuring our nation’s veterans have the support they need by expanding access to and improving the effectiveness of mental health care for our veterans. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act will establish a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members with accessing VA mental health care services. To ease access to services, the bill will require the VA to create a one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans. A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists included in the legislation will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals. To improve care, the legislation will require an annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what is working and what is not. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
12.01.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—(December 1, 2014)—Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the followings statement in honor of World Aids Day: “Today marks the 26th annual observance of World AIDS Day. Over the years, countless lives, both foreign and domestic, have been lost as a result of this illness. AIDS is a global epidemic which requires a global response in order to ensure better lives and access to care and treatment. In memory of the lives lost and in honor of those living with HIV and AIDS, we must reflect upon and acknowledge the ongoing work that is required to combat this epidemic across the globe. As a member of Congress and registered nurse committed to the advancement of modern medicine and better access to healthcare despite origin or income level, I believe this can be achieved through the following: Increased access to the full range of healthcare services; Robust support for domestic and global health programs – including those that focus on HIV/AIDS, family planning, and reproductive healthcare; Greater investment in sex education in the U.S. and around the world; Protection of the Affordable Care Act; and Advancing the health and human rights of all people. The world we want is possible and I will continue to make these issues a priority during my time in Congress. December 1st marks World AIDS Day, in light of this year’s theme ‘Focus, Partner, Achieve: An AIDS-free Generation,’ I encourage my colleagues and each of our communities to stand in support of an AIDS-free world.” ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
11.25.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.—(November 25th, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Ferguson Grand Jury’s Decision not to indict Officer Darren Wilson for the death of unarmed teenager, Michael Brown: “I am deeply saddened by the Ferguson Grand Jury’s decision yesterday evening. The decision not to indict Officer Darren Wilson for the death of Michael Brown is both a travesty and a failure by our justice system. As the proud mother of a black man and grandmother to three grandsons, I cannot imagine the depth of the wound left in the hearts of Lesley McSpadden and Michael Brown Sr. The death of their son at the hands of a police officer sworn to protect and serve, aggravated by the refusal of the District Attorney to prosecute, is a profound affirmation of the devaluation of African-American men in this country. Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King once said: “we must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope.” Yesterday’s decision in Ferguson highlights that there is still much work to be done. Our charge now is to harness that anger into constructive change by initiating dialogue with our community members, our elected officials, and our police departments to ensure that there are no more senseless murders of young black men. In the wake of this inequitable decision, we must stand together—peacefully. ### CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (Tuesday, November 18th, 2014)— Congressional Homelessness Caucus Co-Chairs Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) and Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) made the following statement highlighting National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week, which is held the week before Thanksgiving. “Homelessness is a multifaceted issue that can affect individuals and families of all backgrounds,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is an issue that transcends all Congressional districts or political boundaries, and can severely impact the lives of individuals and families indefinitely. In addition to the difficulties homeless individuals face on a daily basis, homelessness has also put tremendous financial pressure on municipalities all across the United States, as the state provides police and medical assistance to individuals left to fend for themselves on the streets. While steps taken by the Federal Strategic Plan have been extremely positive, there is more that Congress can do.” “This Thanksgiving as many of us prepare to spend the holiday with family let us not forget the millions homeless individuals and families that will go hungry with no home to call their own,” said Congressman Hastings. “Each year, we set aside the week before the Thanksgiving to mark National Hunger and Homelessness Awareness Week. Though progress has been made in reducing hunger and homelessness, we must remain diligent to ensure that every American has access to the most basic human needs. The issue of homelessness is exacerbated by the high rate home foreclosure and socio-economic difficulties faced by many of our working poor. I will continue to work to bring renewed attention to the ending hunger and homelessness in America, through outreach, advocacy and creation of public policy to protect this venerable population. Collectively, the Congressional Homeless Caucus will continue to make progress in ensuring that all Americans have food to eat and permanent shelter over their heads.” ABOUT: National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week is held each year the week before Thanksgiving. This is a time for us all to start to think about what we are thankful for, and a perfect time to share our compassion with our neighbors who are experiencing homelessness. This year, National Hunger & Homelessness Awareness Week is held from November 15-23, 2014. For more information, please visit: https://nationalhomeless.org/about-us/projects/awareness-week/. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
11.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – (November 13, 2014) – Open enrollment in the Health Insurance Marketplace for 2015 under the Affordable Care Act (ACA) begins on Saturday, November 15th and ends on Sunday, February 15th, 2015. During this 4 month period, newly enrolled and currently enrolled users are encouraged to visit the Health Insurance Marketplace to determine the most effective coverage plan for themselves and their families. Since 2011, the ACA has made healthcare more accessible and affordable for millions of Americans by saving consumers $9 billion. Access to healthcare has expanded, with a substantial reduction of the number of Americans uninsured. According to statistics released by the Obama Administration and the Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS): 10.3 million uninsured adults have been covered since the launch of ACA Open Enrollment Exchanges in 2013; The number of uninsured adults has been reduced by 26% since the start of Open Enrollment in 2013; 7.3 million people signed up for Marketplace plans, paid their premiums, and accessed quality, affordable coverage; and Another 8 million individuals enrolled in Medicaid or CHIP since the beginning of Open Enrollment –an increase of nearly 14% compared to average monthly signups prior to October 1st, 2013. In 2015, there will be a 25% increase in the total number of issuers selling health insurance plans in the Marketplace, meaning increased access to healthcare and coverage options. Overall, Americans express satisfaction with coverage and the improved quality of healthcare they are receiving. I would encourage everyone to make your elections early and not wait until the deadline of February 15th, 2015. For more information on potential coverage and key dates, visit www.HealthCare.Gov. Contact: Yinka Robinson - Yinka.Robinson@mail.house.gov ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.10.2014	Washington, D.C. – (Monday, November 10, 2014) — Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of Veterans Day, which falls on Tuesday, November 11th: “November 11th marks an important day for Americans. It is a day to honor America’s veterans for their patriotism, love of country, and willingness to serve and sacrifice for the common good. Veterans Day serves as a conscious reminder for the thousands of men and women who have dedicated their lives in service to the United States. Throughout history these individuals have fought selflessly for their country and for this service our nation is eternally grateful. As a former Chief Psychiatric Nurse for the Dallas Veterans Affairs Medical Center and a proud supporter of veterans, I believe it is our duty as a nation to ensure that appreciation for our veterans extends beyond November 11th. Access to healthcare, housing and education are of the utmost importance for veterans and their families. As a member of Congress and more importantly as the daughter of a veteran, these are matters I will always support during my time in Congress. I am honored to celebrate these heroic people. God bless them and the service they have provided for our country.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.30.2014	Washington, D.C. – (Thursday, October 30, 2014) — Yesterday, “Drug Policy Action” gave Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson an “A” grade in their 2014 Drug Policy Reform Guide for her voting record on national drug reform. In recent years there has been a major shift in reforming many U.S. drug laws which have resulted in large numbers of minorities being incarcerated. “I am honored to receive this grade,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I believe that major shifts in our nation’s drug policies are necessary to achieve fairness for all. Working toward consistent efforts in drug policy reform is in the best interest of our nation and these changes must occur at the state and federal level.” The publication surveyed 243 members of Congress, among those surveyed only 49 received an “A” grade. “I encourage all of my colleagues who have been absent in the push for drug reform, to join me and others as we attempt to bring about sensible drug policies that will benefit all Americans” said Congresswoman Johnson. Drug Policy Action is a nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization, which undertakes a wide range of activities including political advocacy permitted by 501(c)(4) organizations. Through these efforts, Drug Policy Action works to pass new drug laws and policies grounded in science, compassion, health and human rights. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.29.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Washington, DC – (Wednesday, October 29, 2014)—Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the anniversary of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA): “I am pleased to note that today marks the 12th anniversary of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA). Since its passing in 2002, this piece of legislation has been pivotal in mandating minimum standards in voting systems and voter access here in the United States. I believe efforts like those seen in HAVA are extremely important to the future success of our democracy. As a result, it is imperative that Americans educate themselves on their voting rights and become actively involved in efforts to increase awareness across the country. Recently, in my home state of Texas new voting regulations have been put into place. These regulations drastically changed voter identification requirements and impacted access to the polls. These types of changes highlight the importance of voter reform and the necessity for voting awareness to be pushed to the forefront. In honor of the anniversary of HAVA, I encourage all Americans to become mindful of voter rights and preparedness. Voting is essential to the legacy of the United States democracy, and I support all efforts which improve access to voting for all.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.09.2014	DALLAS, TX – (Thursday, October 9th, 2014)— On Friday October 10th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson will attend a hearing focused on government coordination to combat Ebola. The hearing is being held by the Committee on Homeland Security at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. After the death of Ebola patient, Thomas Eric Duncan, and subsequent potential cases , precautionary measures are being taken by officials to ensure preparedness in the future. In remarks regarding the Ebola outbreak preparedness, Congresswoman Johnson said the following: “Preparedness is our best tool in fighting the spread of an Ebola outbreak, and I commend you all for the effectiveness of your response thus far. As the Centers for Disease Control, Department of Homeland Security, and Dallas County health officials respond to this crisis, we must continue to stress the importance of coordinated measures among the federal, state, and local levels. Let me assure you that the U.S. has the public health infrastructure necessary to ensure that this virus is contained. Each passenger traveling from West African countries affected by an outbreak of Ebola is medically screened for symptoms before they are cleared to board an aircraft. By and large, these precautions have stemmed the spread beyond the borders of those West African countries. Additionally, on Wednesday of this week, federal officials announced enhanced screening techniques at five of the busiest airports in the country. While these procedures are not foolproof, they are effective in stopping the spread of Ebola and will reduce the risk of Ebola cases within our borders.” During the hearing, Congresswoman Johnson will address questions and concerns raised by District 30 constituents in addition to general inquiries. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.09.2014	DALLAS, TX – (Thursday, October 9th, 2014)— On Friday October 10th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson will attend a hearing focused on government coordination to combat Ebola. The hearing is being held by the Committee on Homeland Security at Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport. After the death of Ebola patient, Thomas Eric Duncan, and subsequent potential cases , precautionary measures are being taken by officials to ensure preparedness in the future. In remarks regarding the Ebola outbreak preparedness, Congresswoman Johnson said the following: “Preparedness is our best tool in fighting the spread of an Ebola outbreak, and I commend you all for the effectiveness of your response thus far. As the Centers for Disease Control, Department of Homeland Security, and Dallas County health officials respond to this crisis, we must continue to stress the importance of coordinated measures among the federal, state, and local levels. Let me assure you that the U.S. has the public health infrastructure necessary to ensure that this virus is contained. Each passenger traveling from West African countries affected by an outbreak of Ebola is medically screened for symptoms before they are cleared to board an aircraft. By and large, these precautions have stemmed the spread beyond the borders of those West African countries. Additionally, on Wednesday of this week, federal officials announced enhanced screening techniques at five of the busiest airports in the country. While these procedures are not foolproof, they are effective in stopping the spread of Ebola and will reduce the risk of Ebola cases within our borders.” During the hearing, Congresswoman Johnson will address questions and concerns raised by District 30 constituents in addition to general inquiries. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.09.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE DALLAS, TX – (Thursday, October 9, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson highlighted the HHS announcement that there will be no increase in the Medicare Part B premium in 2015. “Today, HHS had good news for America’s seniors – announcing that, for the second year in a row, there will be no increase in the Medicare Part B premium in 2015 – with the premium remaining at $104.90 for 2013, 2014, and 2015,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Similarly, HHS announced that, for the second year in a row, there will also be no increase in the Medicare Part B deductible in 2015 – with the deductible remaining at $147.” “Seniors have seen significant savings since the Affordable Care Act (ACA) was enacted, including almost no growth in the Part B premium. By contrast, in earlier years, seniors had seen the Medicare Part B premium skyrocket, undermining their financial and health security.” Today’s announcement adds to the growing list of ways in which the ACA has resulted in major savings, better benefits, and a more solvent Medicare program. Since the enactment of the ACA: More than 8.3 million seniors enrolled in Medicare have saved more than $12 billion on their prescription drugs. That’s an average savings of $1,443 per senior. Seniors now have access to key preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. 37 million seniors received free preventive services under Medicare in 2013 alone. The life of the Medicare Trust Fund has been extended by 13 years. “Strengthening and improving Medicare has always been one of my top priorities,” Congresswoman Johnson concluded. “I am happy to report that the Affordable Care Act has been successful in improving Medicare benefits and resulted in major savings for seniors. I will remain focused on how we can continue to improve the financial and health security of America’s seniors.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.08.2014	DALLAS, TX – (Wednesday, October 08, 2014) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the death of Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan, who tragically passed away this morning at Texas Presbyterian Hospital: “I would like to express my deepest condolences to the mother and other relatives of Mr. Thomas Eric Duncan who passed away this morning at Texas Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas while being treated for the Ebola Virus After learning of her son’s diagnosis, Mrs. Nowai Korkoyah traveled from her home in North Carolina to visit Mr. Duncan who was being treated in isolation by health professionals at the hospital after traveling to Dallas from his home in Liberia two weeks ago. I want to thank our faith institutions, government officials, local elected officials, and specifically hospital staff who provided supportive care to the patient as well as those who worked with the family of Mr. Duncan to ensure their safety. I will continue to work with local and federal officials to ensure that public safety is our highest concern.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.06.2014	[Washington, DC] – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson attended a ground breaking ceremony for DART’s South Oak Cliff (SOC-3) Blue Line Extension along with Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings, the Hon. Royce West and the Hon. Helen Giddings. The new “SOC-3” is a 3-mile extension of DART’s Blue Line from Ledbetter Station south to the University of North Texas Dallas (UNT). Within this extension, new “at-grade” stations will be added in South Dallas. One station will be located at Camp Wisdom and the other on UNT’s campus. During the ground breaking ceremony, Congresswoman Johnson gave the following remarks: “Projects like these are vital to Dallas. They bring a competitive economic edge to our area, ultimately drawing in new businesses and residents. With service set to begin in 2016, we can also expect that some of the congestion caused by our region’s ever growing population will be eased. DART’s extensive network of light rail, the Trinity Railway Express (TRE) and busses are integral to the recent success our area has seen. In fact, I believe that the effectiveness of our region’s growing public transportation system is one of the reasons why DFW is one of the fastest growing areas in the country. This project is a great leap forward for both the region and the DART agency.” Since its establishment in 1983, DART has grown to serve over 100 million passenger trips a year in 13 different cities within 700 square miles. With additions like that of the Blue Line Extension in South Oak Cliff, these numbers continue to grow each year. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.02.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE [Dallas, TX] – (Thursday, October 2, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement regarding the first U.S. case of Ebola in Dallas, TX: “Tuesday afternoon, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) confirmed that a patient at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital of Dallas represents the first case of Ebola diagnosed in the United States. CDC Director Tom Frieden has done an excellent job of explaining the patient’s current condition and providing a detailed outline of how the CDC has been mobilized to not only treat the patient, but to reassure the public that an outbreak in our country is highly unlikely. Presbyterian Hospital Epidemiologist Edward Goodman and Dallas County Health and Human Services Director Zachary Thompson assured us yesterday that an emergency plan has been in place for months in the event of an Ebola case. Currently, CDC and Dallas County health officials are monitoring a handful of family members for possible symptoms. All Dallas Fire Rescue Paramedics involved in the patient’s transportation to Presbyterian Hospital have tested negative for the virus and will be closely monitored for the next 21 days to ensure their safety. News broke yesterday that five Dallas ISD students at four schools in northeast Dallas could have been in contact with the patient but have not shown any symptoms of the virus. Those students are being monitored, and the correct public health precautions are in place. I would like to reiterate that Ebola only becomes infectious once the patient is exhibiting symptoms such as fever, diarrhea, and nausea. Each passenger traveling from West African countries affected by outbreak of the Ebola virus is medically screened for Ebola symptoms before they are cleared to board an aircraft. The patient in question was not exhibiting symptoms until four days after arriving in the U.S., and there is no risk that fellow passengers could have become infected. While an Ebola case in the U.S. is frightening, I would like to take this opportunity to assure you that the U.S. has the public health infrastructure to ensure that the virus is contained and does not spread. I am confident that the CDC, Dallas County health officials, and Presbyterian Hospital are working collaboratively to treat this patient and stop this virus in its tracks.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
10.02.2014	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE [DALLAS, TX] – Today, Congresswoman Johnson joined millions of Americans in marking October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month. The country has recognized October as Domestic Violence Awareness Month since 1987. “During this year’s Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Americans should join together in rededicating ourselves to eradicating from our society the scourge of domestic violence,” Congresswoman Johnson. “The domestic violence cases within the National Football League have begun a national conversation and we should use this conversation to focus on ensuring all victims of domestic violence get the services they need and on promoting strategies that can prevent domestic violence.” This year marks the 20th anniversary of the landmark Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Before VAWA, domestic violence was seen by many as a lesser offense. But the passing of VAWA changed these societal ideals. VAWA treats domestic violence as the violent crime that it is -- providing resources to state and local law enforcement agencies to address violent crimes against women and funding training for over 500,000 law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges and other personnel every year. “Domestic and sexual violence are forms of abuse that have plagued communities both foreign and domestic. Women who fall victim to domestic and sexual violence should not feel ashamed of their situation. By standing strong in support of Women’s Rights, VAWA empowers victims by providing a voice for issues that have historically laid silent.” said Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson. “We must continue to strengthen our response to these crimes and deepen our commitment to all survivors.” The current prevalence of domestic violence in our society should be unacceptable to everyone – men and women,” Congresswoman Johnson concluded. “As we mark Domestic Violence Awareness month, let us stand together as one nation and proclaim zero tolerance for domestic violence and work to end it in our society.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.26.2014	[Washington, DC]—On Friday September 26th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson served as the Honorary Host of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Science and Technology Brain Trust during the 2014 Annual Legislative Conference (ALC) held at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in D.C. This year’s Brain Trust was attended by over 300 guests, where much of the program was limited to “standing room only.” Event attendees included ALC registrants from around the country, and representatives from various governmental and non-governmental organizations, in addition to 150 students from Dallas, Houston and D.C. area schools. The program was split into two separate panels with a demonstration from NASA’s robotic arm during intermission. Panel One titled “A Day in the Life,” designed to outline the life of a STEM professional from academia to professionalism, included participation from: Nina Davuluri, Miss America 2014; Dr. Michael Drake, President of Ohio State University; The Honorable LaDoris Harris from the Office of Economic Impact and Diversity at the Department of Energy; and Dr. Craig Brown, Vice President of the Black Data Processors Association. Panel Two titled “Diversifying Silicon Valley” included participation from: Dr. Johnny Taylor, President and CEO of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund (TMCF); Aaron Moses, Community Engagement Manager at Facebook; Damien Hooper-Campbell, Diversity Strategist at Google; Stephanie Peters, Director of Federal Government Affairs at Microsoft; Stephanie Childs, Vice President of Cognizant; and Chanelle Hardy, Senior Vice President for Policy at the National Urban League During the Q & A sessions, student attendees posed questions of competency and preparation for future generations of STEM students. One student from the Howard University Math and Science Middle School gave a statement on the importance of being “proactive,” encouraging adults and peers “to begin taking action for change rather than simply holding discussions.” After the Q & A sessions ended, Congresswoman Johnson left student attendees with this message “You can do things to make others happy, but the most important thing is to do what makes yourself happy." These sentiments were echoed by panelists and attendees through a round of applause as the program came to its close. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.25.2014	[Washington, DC]—On Thursday, September 25th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson served as the Honorary Host of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s 2014 Annual Legislative Conference titled “From Trauma to Wellness: Building the Movement for Emotional Healing, Mental Health, and Well-Being in the Black Community.” Nearly 300 guests attended the forum. The two-part panel centered on discussions of the origins and residual impact of mental health disparities within African American communities. Panel participants included: Dr. James Jackson, Director of the Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan; Dr. Jaqueline Mattis, Professor, Department of Psychology, Interim Director, Center for the Study of Black Youth in Context at the University of Michigan; Dr. Lonnie Snowden, Professor of the Graduate School, Health Policy and Management Program, School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley; Cheryl Mayo Williams, Senior Director of Population Health at Children’s Medical Center; Dr. Taasogle Daryl Rowe, President of the Association of Black Psychologists; Dr. Cheryl Tawede Grills, Immediate Past President of the Association of Black Psychologists; and Enola Aird, Founder and President at the Community Healing Network, Inc. “Mental illness is an issue that severely plagues every community. However, rather than finding solutions for those affected, many mentally ill persons wind up incarcerated or homeless, where they receive no treatment. Mental illness is not something that is simply alleviated with time” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We cannot simply stand by idly and allow such an issue to wreck havoc on our communities. We must act now, with deliberate speed, to guarantee access to treatment for all individuals suffering with mental illness. We must do it for our families and our communities.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.23.2014	[Washington, DC]— On Tuesday, September 23rd Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson gave remarks to honor the family of Hattie Wayne during the 2014 Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Week Conference, held at the Marriot Wardman Park. The family of Hattie Wayne was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records for having the most family members to graduate from the same university,” they have made history. Over 86 relatives from six generations attended Grambling State University. Among the 86 relatives acknowledged, 40 went on to complete their studies and receive a degree from the university. In remarks given to the family, Congresswoman Johnson stated “Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) are an important piece of the African American community…The Wayne family has created a legacy that any family would be proud to match, including my own. I am proud to recognize them today, and I hope the legacy they have created continues for years to come.” Attending Grambling State University is a tradition for the Wayne family. Degrees received culminate from a multitude of disciplines including—medicine, science, public service, law, education, law enforcement and performing arts. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.12.2014	Washington, DC – (Friday, September 12, 2014) – Tomorrow, September 13, marks the 20th anniversary of President Bill Clinton signing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) into law. The landmark legislation created critical protections for victims of domestic violence and dramatically strengthened our nation’s criminal justice response to violence against women. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement recognize the 20th anniversary of this historic legislation: “As a member of the United States Congress, and more importantly as a woman, it is crucial to remember the positive ramifications of VAWA. Domestic and sexual violence are forms of abuse that have plagued communities both foreign and domestic. Women who fall victim to domestic and sexual violence should not feel ashamed of their situation. By standing strong in support of Women’s Rights, VAWA empowers victims by providing a voice for issues that have historically laid silent.” said Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson. “We must continue to strengthen our response to these crimes and deepen our commitment to all survivors.” House Democrats are committed to continuing to strengthen domestic violence programs. As part of the Middle Class Jumpstart, House Democrats will strengthen VAWA and make increased investments in shelters and other life-saving domestic violence services. VAWA has been critical landmark legislation. According to a statement issued by the White House, between 1993—2010 the rate of intimate partner violence has declined by 67%, in addition to increased reporting of domestic and sexual violence to the police since its passing. VAWA has instituted stricter sentencing guidelines for repeat federal sex crime offenders and provides resources to tribal, local, and state law enforcement communities to address violent crimes against women. In addition, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, which responds to more than 22,000 urgent calls for help every month, was also created under this legislation. Overall these measures in addition to countless others will contribute to protecting the rights of women across the country for years to come. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.11.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, September 11, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement for the record in recognition and remembrance of those that lost their lives on September 11, 2001: “ It has been 13 years since the terrorist attacks of extremist organization, Al-Qaeda, plagued our great nation. From that day forward, our nation would be forever changed. Each year on 9/11, we mourn the more than 3,000 lives lost in New York, Pennsylvania and at the Pentagon. Yet, amidst our sadness we remain strong. Despite the numerous attempts to shake our resolve, we remain resilient. 9/11 will always be remembered as the most heinous act of terrorism committed against the United States. During the aftermath Americans banded together by volunteering and assisting heroically in rescue attempts. I am thankful for the sense of unity created amongst Americans. Whether affected directly or indirectly, we all mourned and offered support to survivors, forgetting even if for a moment our racial, gender, and socioeconomic differences, instead highlighting the humanity of the American people more than ever before. Leaders across the country acted swiftly. They shared resources and Congress, through unprecedented legislative resolve, collaborated across party lines to develop bipartisan measures, some of which resulted in the death of terrorist Osama Bin Laden and ended large scale troop presence in both Iraq and Afghanistan. These measures contributed to the protection and safety of our nation. As a Member of Congress, and more importantly as a U.S. citizen, it is my duty to remember and celebrate the memories of the lives lost on 9/11. Though, they are no longer with us, their legacy will continue now and in the future. God Bless America.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. CONTACT: Yinka Robinson | (202)225-8885
09.03.2014	Patricia Allard, Senior Policy Researcher and Analyst with Justice Strategies addresses those attending the briefing Washington, DC – (Wednesday, September 3, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a briefing about prioritizing the needs of children of incarcerated parents. The briefing was sponsored by Justice Strategies, a New York-based nonprofit research organization dedicated to bringing humane and cost-effective approaches to criminal justice reform. A recent study indicated that more than 2.7 million children in the United States currently have an incarcerated parent. “Unfortunately,” said Congresswoman Johnson, “children of a parent who is incarcerated are more likely to experience mental health problems and generally negative health outcomes. We must work together to ensure that children of incarcerated individuals are well cared-for and in stable situations, not left behind. The criminal justice system must be given the discretion to take family information into account in order to exercise sound and fair judgment.” Patricia Allard, Senior Policy Researcher and Analyst with Justice Strategies noted in her remarks that promoting alternatives to incarceration is the best way to avoid negative impacts on children. “There is an opportunity for improvement in the criminal justice system,” said Allard. “A federal sentencing judge must be able to consider all of the facts of the case by examining a Family Responsibility Statement in order to determine sentencing.” Allard and Justice Strategies have pushed internationally for Family Responsibility Statements to be heard. Australia is already considering the impact of parental incarceration on children and judges are allowed discretion when sentencing a parent. The briefing was moderated by Nkechi Taifa of the Open Society Foundations. Panelists included Patricia Allard of Justice Strategies, Glenn Martin of JustLeadership USA, Pamela Clifton of the Colorado Criminal Justice Reform Coalition, Charles Dalton Telschow, a slam poet, actor, and musical performer, and Elizabeth Gaynes of The Osborne Association. ###
08.21.2014	Congresswoman Johnson stands next to NTTA Drive to Excellence Award where her name has been engraved Dallas, TX – (Thursday, August 21, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was honored in Plano, Texas by the North Texas Tollway Authority (NTTA). The NTTA honored Congresswoman Johnson with the Drive to Excellence Award for the “creation of a robust and thriving transportation network serving one of the fastest growing regions in the country.” “ I want to thank the NTTA for this great honor. I have spent my career in the Congress securing as many federal resources as possible for the improvement of Texas’ infrastructure and highways,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “North Texas is a transportation hub for the entire country. We have so many goods flowing through our state, and so many people who are dependent on our highways and tollways to get their services to destinations around the country. We must continue to invest in Texas tollways to ensure that we remain a thriving transportation hub for generations to come.” Congresswoman Johnson is currently the highest ranking Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. She has served on the Committee for 22 years and has directed billions of dollars of federal investment into Texas infrastructure projects. The chairman of the NTTA praised Congresswoman Johnson’s forward thinking and commitment to improving the transportation sector. “North Texas has a unique and enviable position in Texas transportation – projects are getting done and people are moving here. These accomplishments are made possible by forward-thinking individuals and organizations who find solutions to promote transportation as an economic driver and quality of life enterprise for all North Texans,” said Chairman Kenneth Barr. The North Texas Tollway Authority is a political subdivision of the state of Texas that is authorized to acquire, construct, maintain, repair and operate turnpike projects in the North Texas region. NTTA serves Collin, Dallas, Denton, Tarrant and Johnson counties; it owns and operates the Dallas North Tollway, President George Bush Turnpike, Sam Rayburn Tollway, Addison Airport Toll Tunnel, Lewisville Lake Toll Bridge, the Mountain Creek Lake Bridge and the Chisholm Trail Parkway. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1kY7tx0 All photos are available to be downloaded and republished. Please credit: C.Trimble for the Office of Eddie Bernice Johnson ###
08.20.2014	Congresswoman Johnson spoke to the students about the importance of diversity in our society Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, August 19, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted dozens of Dallas-area high school students for the 8th annual Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue held at the Southern Methodist University’s Owens Art Center. The Youth and Diversity Summit was designed to bring about greater understanding and working relationships between young people of different faiths, ethnicities, and countries of origin in the Dallas area. “It is important that as a society we celebrate diversity,” Congresswoman Johnson said to the students. “In our city, we have young people from all over the world who contribute to bringing a culture of peace and brotherhood. Together, we can share our cultural differences and make our world a better place for all people.” Farrukh Valliani, president of the Aga Khan Council for the Central United States, addressed the students, highlighting that cultural diversity was crucial in today’s world. “Bringing people together for dialogue will create a more peaceful world,” he said. The Aga Khan Council worked in conjunction with Congresswoman Johnson’s office to make this year’s event happen. Dr. Lori White, the Vice President for Student Affairs at SMU spoke to the students, noting that they were the future leaders of the world. “It is important that different people have respect for each other, and one another’s cultures,” she said. “The world will need your talents.” During the summit students participated in four regional workshops exploring the cultures of different parts of the world. The workshops were led by experts in the fields of international relations and education. Tim Livingston of Dallas’ Channel 5 news served as the summit’s master of ceremonies. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1pIONl4 All photos are available to be downloaded and republished. Please credit: C.Trimble for the Office of Eddie Bernice Johnson
08.07.2014	Congressman Leland served as a mentor to Congresswoman Johnson during her tenure in the Texas legislature Dallas, TX – (Thursday, August 7, 2014) – Today Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement on the 25th anniversary of the passing of Texas Congressman George Thomas “Mickey” Leland: “It is hard to believe that it was 25 years ago today that my friend and mentor, Mickey Leland, passed away. He was a steadfast and caring leader from whom I learned so much from,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “He made a lasting impact on Congress that has helped shaped our country’s focus to aid parts of the world that were suffering from extreme hunger. His legacy can be felt today through young leaders that are being trained in the Mickey Leland International Hunger Fellows Program at the Congressional Hunger Center in the nation’s capital. He died as he lived; bringing attention to the plight of refugees in a part of the world that sorely needed our help.” Congressman Mickey Leland was a transformative leader, not only in Texas but throughout the world. He began his political career by being elected to the Texas State Legislature from the city of Houston. Soon after his term began, Congressman Leland traveled to Africa and found the calling to which he would dedicate his life, ending hunger throughout the world. Congressman Leland was elected to Congress in 1978 to represent the 18th Congressional District of Texas, filling the seat vacated by Congresswoman Barbara Jordan when she retired. He was a progressive leader that twice chaired the Congressional Black Caucus. He also took his life’s mission to the halls of Congress where he helped to form the House Select Committee on World Hunger in 1984. With the support of anti-hunger organizations, Congressman Leland was able to overcome opposition in the House of Representatives that argued that the Select Committee would be a waste of money, or would infringe upon the duties of existing committees. The Select Committee generated awareness within Congress regarding national and international hunger, and prompted a bipartisan effort to find solutions to end hunger in the U.S. and around the world. Congressman Leland also led numerous humanitarian trips with his Congressional colleagues, allowing them to witness firsthand the hunger crisis that was plaguing Sub-Saharan Africa. Due to his efforts, Congressman Leland was frequently called the “conscience of the House” by colleagues. Congressman Leland made a lasting impact that can be felt today through the Congressional Hunger Center. Former Democratic Congressman Tony Hall, a close friend of Congressman Leland and former chair of the House Select Committee on Hunger, joined Republican Representative Bill Emerson to form the bi-partisan Congressional Hunger Center in 1993. Soon after its formation, the Congressional Hunger Center established the Mickey Leland International Hunger Fellows Program to serve as a living legacy to Congressman Leland and his world-changing work to end hunger. The Mickey Leland International Hunger Fellows Program trains emerging leaders during a two-year period to eradicate hunger worldwide. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.22.2014	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 22, 2014) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the rulings on the Affordable Care Act’s premium tax credits from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 4th Circuit, and the U.S Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit: “Today’s D.C. Circuit Court’s ruling that subsidies and tax credits under the Affordable Care Act are only available to qualifying enrollees who accessed health insurance coverage through a state-run exchange creates uncertainty for the tens of thousands Texans who have been able to receive healthcare coverage under the Affordable Care Act through the federal health insurance marketplace. This decision, if upheld, proves to be another example of the importance of expanding Medicaid coverage in the state of Texas and highlights the need to create a state exchange,” said Congresswoman Johnson as she reviewed the D.C. Circuit’s ruling. The Congresswoman was confident that the more prudent decision by the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, which held that subsidies were permissible in either state- or federally-run exchanges, would be upheld. She noted that: “The unanimous decision by the 4th Circuit Court reflects the true legislative intent behind the law, which is to end discriminatory practices and enable millions of Americans to access affordable health care” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am glad that this court acted to protect the right to affordable healthcare for citizens of every state, even in those instances where the state failed to do so.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.17.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, July 17, 2014) – This week, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson led the House and Senate in a bipartisan effort to involve the Obama administration in more than 900 adoption cases that are currently suspended by the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Congresswoman Johnson, along with House colleagues, Michelle Bachmann (R-MN), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Trent Franks (R-AZ), and Senators Mary Landrieu (D-LA) and James Inhofe (R-OK), have sent President Obama a letter detailing this crisis and urging the President to intervene directly with the DRC. “We must do everything we can to unite these children with their adopted families,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While many American families have completed all of the necessary legal processes, they are still unnecessarily separated from their adopted children. The decision by the DRC is devastating to the American families and the children, many in poor living conditions and medically fragile, while stuck in the DRC.” In September 2013, the DRC suspended the issuance of exit permits for children adopted by any foreign parents, reportedly due to concerns about suspected malfeasance in the local DRC adoption process and lack of information about the well-being of adopted children after they arrived in their new homes. In advance of the first ever U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in August, the letter urges President Obama to use this event and the time leading up to it as an opportunity to press DRC President Kabila for a just and expeditious resolution for these children and their American families. The letter, signed by 104 members of the House of Representatives and 62 Senators, was sent to the White House on July 16, 2014. View a copy of the letter here: https://1.usa.gov/1nglh6n
07.09.2014	Dallas, TX– (Wednesday, July 9, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson met with President Barack Obama and a group of local elected and religious leaders to discuss the recent humanitarian crisis spurred by the influx of more than 52,000 unaccompanied children along the border during the President’s visit to Dallas today. Congresswoman Johnson offered the following statement after leaving her meeting with the President: “I want to thank President Obama for taking the time to address this pressing issue with us. We all had a very productive conversation with the President regarding this recent increase of unaccompanied children crossing our southwestern border. He has assured us that he is concentrating the full power of his Administration behind finding the correct solution for this growing humanitarian crisis. President Obama is in constant communication with authorities on the ground along the entire border and understands the gravity of this situation. He has asked us in Congress to work with him by approving emergency aid to deal with this mass migration and its effects. I applaud Dallas leaders and the wonderful citizens from my district who have responded compassionately to the vulnerability of these unaccompanied children and recognized the urgent need to provide safety, food and shelter to these children to combat the dangers of wide-spread physical and sexual exploitation of children from these countries. I look forward to working with the president and city leaders as we join forces to ensure these children are treated humanely while they are in within our borders while simultaneously seeking a permanent solution that aims to reunite these children with their families while still respecting our laws.” ###
07.09.2014	Dallas, TX– (Wednesday, July 9, 2014) – Today marks the 146th anniversary of the ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment, which reconstituted the fabric of American life and law following the Civil War. The Fourteenth Amendment extended the cloak of citizenship to former slaves and expanded equal protection under the law, not only to African Americans, but to all persons born or naturalized in the United States. Of the three reconstructive amendments following the Civil War, the Fourteenth is often the most echoed due to the wide range of liberties it protects. To African Americans the Fourteenth Amendment is a beacon of hope stemming from the most reflective and significant constitutional moments of our American history. To our neighbors who risk their lives and freedom to stand on American soil, the bright light and brilliance of the American dream continues to draw those in search of liberty, justice and equality. I remain convinced that, as was true in 1868, American citizens will denounce political contradictions that grant liberty and justice to all but the poor and will compel Congress to act so that new constitutional principles can emerge that will meet the needs of our ever-changing society.
07.02.2014	Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, July 2, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson recognized the 50th anniversary of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. President Lyndon Johnson signed this historic law, the most sweeping civil rights legislation since Reconstruction, on July 2, 1964. “It could be argued that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is the most significant law in this nation’s history – by finally banning discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This 50th anniversary is a time to remember the debt all of us owe to the courageous leaders of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s – many of whom were beaten and some of whom died in their fight for justice. Their struggles and efforts culminated in the enactment of the Civil Rights Act.” The landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 helped bring an end to the Jim Crow era – banning discrimination in public places. Before the enactment of the Civil Rights Act, many public facilities in regions of the country were still segregated. The Act also banned discrimination in employment. In addition, it provided a long-awaited enforcement mechanism for the integration of schools. “Although the Civil Rights Act of 1964 represented enormous progress, more progress is still needed,” Congresswoman Johnson stated. “For example, there could be no better way to mark this 50th anniversary than for Congress to pass a revised, renewed, and strengthened Voting Rights Act.” The Voting Rights Act has been responsible for much of the progress made in recent decades to outlaw discriminatory voting practices. And yet, unfortunately, in June 2013, in a 5-4 decision in Shelby County v Holder, the Supreme Court significantly weakened the Act by invalidating one of its key sections. In response, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) has introduced a bipartisan compromise bill – the Voting Rights Amendment Act – which provides an effective, modern, flexible and forward-looking Voting Rights Act for today. “I call upon Members on both sides of the aisle to continue the bipartisan tradition of supporting civil rights and pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act,” Congresswoman Johnson concluded. “This action would be in the spirit of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would continue to help America to better live up to our creed that all individuals are created equal.” ###
07.02.2014	Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, July 2, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson recognized the 50th anniversary of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964. President Lyndon Johnson signed this historic law, the most sweeping civil rights legislation since Reconstruction, on July 2, 1964. “It could be argued that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is the most significant law in this nation’s history – by finally banning discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This 50th anniversary is a time to remember the debt all of us owe to the courageous leaders of the Civil Rights Movement of the 1960s – many of whom were beaten and some of whom died in their fight for justice. Their struggles and efforts culminated in the enactment of the Civil Rights Act.” The landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 helped bring an end to the Jim Crow era – banning discrimination in public places. Before the enactment of the Civil Rights Act, many public facilities in regions of the country were still segregated. The Act also banned discrimination in employment. In addition, it provided a long-awaited enforcement mechanism for the integration of schools. “Although the Civil Rights Act of 1964 represented enormous progress, more progress is still needed,” Congresswoman Johnson stated. “For example, there could be no better way to mark this 50th anniversary than for Congress to pass a revised, renewed, and strengthened Voting Rights Act.” The Voting Rights Act has been responsible for much of the progress made in recent decades to outlaw discriminatory voting practices. And yet, unfortunately, in June 2013, in a 5-4 decision in Shelby County v Holder, the Supreme Court significantly weakened the Act by invalidating one of its key sections. In response, Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-WI) has introduced a bipartisan compromise bill – the Voting Rights Amendment Act – which provides an effective, modern, flexible and forward-looking Voting Rights Act for today. “I call upon Members on both sides of the aisle to continue the bipartisan tradition of supporting civil rights and pass the Voting Rights Amendment Act,” Congresswoman Johnson concluded. “This action would be in the spirit of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would continue to help America to better live up to our creed that all individuals are created equal.” ###
06.25.2014	Susan Sarandon advocates for the need to protect homeless individuals Washington, DC – (Wednesday, June 25, 2014) – Today, the Congressional Homelessness Caucus, co-chaired by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congressman Alcee Hastings, in conjunction with the office of Congressman John Conyers hosted an important briefing on violence against America’s homeless individuals. The briefing was held to bring awareness to and provide support for H.R. 1136, the Violence Against the Homeless Accountability Act of 2013. Since 1999, the National Coalition for the Homeless (NCH) has documented more than 1,437 acts of violence against homeless individuals, 375 of which were fatal attacks. Congresswoman Johnson proposed this legislation to amend the Hate Crime Statistics Act to include crimes against the homeless in the crime data collected by the Attorney General. “Violence against homeless individuals is a problem that has no boundaries. It is a threat to our homeless men, women and children of all backgrounds. Until we have a sound understanding of the scope and nature of the problem, we will remain unable to develop targeted solutions or draft comprehensive reform. Today's briefing is a solid step towards increased awareness of the problem. We must continue to take deliberate steps toward ending violence against our homeless population.” During the briefing, a clip was shown from Storied Streets, a documentary on the rash of violence against the homeless. Director, Tom Morgan spoke about the film and the stories from around the country that he investigated. Actress and activist, Susan Sarandon, an advocate for homeless individuals, spoke at length about the atrocities and violent attacks homeless individuals face. Sarandon also discussed many of the factors that can contribute to homelessness. Panelist, David Pirtle spoke at length about his time being homeless and the many acts of violence he personally survived. Pirtle now works with the National Coalition for the Homeless.
06.25.2014	Former CNN president, Tom Johnson, moderated the panel discussion and event honoring President Johnson’s legacy in civil rights. Washington, DC – (Wednesday, June 25, 2014) - Last night, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, in conjunction with the Congressional Black Caucus, honored the life and legacy of President Lyndon B. Johnson in the Great Hall of the Library of Congress. This event was centered around the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Members of Congress, prominent political leaders of the Johnson administration, noted presidential historians, and civil rights leaders gathered to discuss the legacy of President Johnson and how he was able to use his office and influence to secure the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965. “It is often heralded that victory has many fathers. That is especially true when we look back upon the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,” said Congresswoman Johnson as she addressed the crowd. “Men, such as Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and President Lyndon B. Johnson, both had a great deal of power, and they used it to reshape our nation. President Johnson used the full power of his office to address the injustices of discrimination in American by advancing two of the most significant legislative endeavors in this Nation’s history: passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.” The event centered on a panel discussion that featured Congressman John Lewis, the last living speaker at the March on Washington, former Texas House of Representatives Speaker, Ben Barnes, as well as authors and Johnson historians, Nick Kotz and Todd Purdum. The panel discussion was moderated by one of President Johnson’s top advisors and former CNN President, Tom Johnson. Remarks and reflections on President Johnson and his efforts were also given by several prominent political figures including, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Congressman Jim Clyburn, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr. The event was attended by hundreds of guests that included several members of the Senate, House of Representatives, and the Congressional Black Caucus. You can view and download photos from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1nEdKua You can watch the fill program on YouTube here: https://youtu.be/npkFrAk9pTI (All photos and video are free to be reprinted or reposted)
06.19.2014	Congresswoman Johnson presented Greyhound CEO, David Leach, with a resolution she introduced to the House honoring the company’s 100th anniversary Washington, DC – (Thursday, June 19, 2014) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced House Resolution 625 to honor the 100th anniversary of the Dallas based company, Greyhound Lines Inc. Congresswoman Johnson presented the CEO of Greyhound, David Leach, with a plaque featuring the congressional resolution as introduced during his recent visit to Capitol Hill. “I am so happy I am able to officially recognize Greyhound on its 100-year anniversary by introducing House Resolution 625” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am honored to have such an iconic company located in my district of Dallas, Texas. Greyhound has been an essential part of the American story for the past 100 years. They keep America moving forward by transporting people and goods around the country. During the civil rights movement, they served as a vehicle of change by offering their buses to the Freedom Riders. They have served Dallas and our nation well. I look forward to Greyhound continuing to be an innovative and essential part of the American transportation industry, and I wish them 100 more successful years.” Greyhound CEO, David Leach, responded by saying “Greyhound is delighted to be able to celebrate its 100 years of providing affordable, accessible transportation and is very pleased that Congresswoman Johnson was able to join us at this event. We are honored by her introduction of H RES. 625, congratulating Greyhound for 100 years of outstanding service to the people of the United States, and we look forward to continuing to serve communities throughout the country for many years to come.” On June 12, 2014, the Resolution was referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. Congresswoman Johnson called upon her colleagues to recognize the critical role Greyhound has played in our nation’s infrastructure by passing House Resolution 625. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1lD5ldx ###
06.03.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, May 22, 2014) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, along with Rhode Island Congressman Jim Langevin, introduced new legislation aimed at addressing the disturbing issue of “re-homing” unwanted adopted children using private Internet forums. H.R. 4704 would expand the scope of the existing Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force, which operates under the Department of Justice, to include the illegal transfer of children. Once the Reuters investigation of re-homing broke last year, Congresswoman Johnson saw this as an immediate area that needed to be addressed. Families involved in this unregulated and underground practice connect through internet groups. These networks make dubious or outright illegal arrangements to give away their adopted children to strangers, often across state lines, with little or no legal documentation, and in some cases, with forged or fake documents. “The practice of illicit re-homing must stop. Many vulnerable children are hurt by this practice,” said a concerned Congresswoman Johnson. “We must empower the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force with strong legislation to combat these heinous acts. Legal adoption is a judicious process that ensures the careful vetting of prospective families and homes fit for a child. The Illegal transfer of children completely undermines this process and puts too many children and families at risk.” In addition to the direct harm to children, re-homing abuses have also lead countries to suspend adoptions by parents in the United States. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, hundreds of approved inter-country adoptions are being suspended, partly, because reports of abuse and re-homing have surfaced. “In order to ensure that the United States is a safe place for children adopted internationally, action is required,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Law enforcement must be able to find and prosecute these offenses, and we must put a stop to the underground market for children whose adoptive parents have decided they no longer wanted them. Every child deserves to be legally placed in a loving home.” ###
05.28.2014	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, May 28, 2014) - Today, Dr. Maya Angelou, award-winning writer, poet, and civil rights activist, died at age 86. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of the life and contributions of Dr. Maya Angelou: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of the literary icon, Maya Angelou. She dedicated her life to the empowerment of others through her inspirational poetry and sophisticated literary works. Maya Angelou was a trailblazer for women and poets around the world. She worked as a civil rights activist, alongside both Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Malcolm X, to help usher in historic change throughout the nation. As a newly elected Member of Congress, I had the great honor of being present during her reading of “On the Pulse of Morning” at President Clinton’s inauguration in 1993. She was the first African American woman to have that honor, and the first poet, since Robert Frost, to read at an inauguration in more than three decades. These are testaments to the extraordinary impact she had on American society. Today, we lost a great teacher, mentor, leader and American. Maya Angelou’s creative works and poems are timeless. Her influence will be felt for generations to come. We will continue to revisit and reflect upon her words for years to come.” ###
05.26.2014	Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 26, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day: “President John F. Kennedy said it best... “A nation reveals itself not only by the men it produces, but also by the men it remembers… The men it honors.” Memorial Day is a time our nation pauses to remember and honor the more than 1 million heroic men and women who sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country in the name of freedom and democracy. For their bravery, their sacrifices, and their selflessness, we owe a tremendous debt of gratitude. Today, we salute the fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters who secured our futures by sacrificing their own. Without the brave efforts of all our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen, our country would not live so freely. We honor our fallen heroes for their acts of valor and heroism. They empower our country to remain the lighthouse of democracy throughout the world. Today, as we visit national cemeteries, attend barbeques and engage in other activities, we will pray for our slain heroes and the loved ones they left behind. May God Bless our Veterans and may God Bless America.” ###
05.23.2014	Dallas, TX – (Friday, May 23, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following information for U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs employees in light of recent allegations of misconduct at the Dallas Veterans Administration Health Care System, and the ensuing investigation by the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General. Congresswoman Johnson recognizes that there may be other local employees and patients who want to come forward to file official complaints. Individuals who may potentially report claims of waste, fraud, or abuse should be clear about the protections they are afforded when filing a complaint and the proper channels to file those complaints. Congresswoman Johnson recommends that VA employees do not use official VA telephones or email accounts when filing a complaint or reporting allegations of wrongdoing. Those individuals seeking to file an official complaint or offer information regarding waste, fraud, misconduct, or abuse at the VA may wish to contact the VA Office of Inspector General: VA Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) Website: www.va.gov/oig Email Complaints to: VAOIGHotline@VA.GOV Call Complaints into VA OIG Hotline: 1-800-488-8244 Whistleblowers may confidentiality file their complaint with the VA The VA OIG may accept complaints from VA employees and the general public and investigate allegations concerning criminal activity, fraud, waste, abuse and mismanagement of VA programs. VA employees who feel that a retaliatory action has been taken against them for filing an official complaint may wish to contact the U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC): U.S. Office of Special Counsel (OSC) Website: www.osc.gov Electronically File Complaints: https://www.osc.gov/oscefile/ Call Complaints into OSC: 1-800-572-2249 The OSC receives, investigates, and prosecutes allegations of prohibited personnel practices, with an emphasis on protecting federal government whistleblowers. Individuals may also contact the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Veterans Affairs, Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigation to report additional information or obtain information on additional resources: House Committee on Veterans Affairs, Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigation Website: https://veterans.house.gov/subcommittee-oversight-investigations Call Complaints: (202) 225 – 3569 The House Committee on Veterans Affairs, Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations (O&I), provides oversight on programs and operations of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The Committee accepts leads on complaints and does not disclose sources ###
05.16.2014	Dallas, TX – (Friday, May 16, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement concerning the allegations of misconduct in the Dallas Veterans Administration Health Care System: “ I am pleased that the incidents involving the Phoenix VA Health Care System are finally receiving national attention and that the president has appointed Rob Nabors, the White House Deputy Chief of Staff, to investigate the allegations of employee misconduct and the manipulation of VA patient wait-times. This is laudable. But I would urge Mr. Nabors to cast a wider net. My staff and I have been working on similar VA issues within the Dallas VA Health Care System for more than 5 years. Recently, I was made aware of allegations that the VA staff in Dallas was instructed to destroy appointment records. It has been difficult to get VA staff to step forward in light of recent claims related to an institutional culture of retaliation within the VA. It is the job of elected officials to speak up and fight for those who cannot fight for themselves. I take these allegations very seriously. I have contacted the VA’s Office of Inspector General and requested that they investigate allegations that the VA ordered its staff at the Dallas VA to destroy appointment records. This entire situation is heartbreaking. I worked at the VA Hospital in Dallas for 15 years, and I loved my work and the people I was privileged to serve. I am also aware of the culture there and how hard-working and loyal the employees there are. They should be protected. Their leaders should not force them to choose between being able to feed their families and carrying out a public trust. More importantly, the tens of thousands of veterans who depend on the VA for their care should be protected. I care very deeply for every Veteran who risked their life and health to serve our country. The VA health care officials should as well. As a nation, we should stand with a united voice and call for the protection of those who risk life and limb to protect us. I am calling for the VA’s immediate action to improve the speed and quality of health care provided to our country’s heroes. I am calling for an immediate, independent, objective review of the Dallas VA. If these allegations are true, corrective actions should be swift.” ###
05.08.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, May 08, 2014) - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security/Federal Emergency Management Agency will award a federal grant of $148,284 to the Lancaster Fire Department. The funds will be used to meet the firefighting and emergency response needs of the Lancaster Fire Department and emergency medical first responders. This grant was awarded as a part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. Since 2001, AFG has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District. “This is great news for the Lancaster Fire Department,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Our firefighters are on the front lines every day risking their lives to keep us all safe. I am pleased that the department won this competitive grant that will be used to help meet the emergency response needs of our community.” ###
05.06.2014	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, May 06, 2014) - May 6th through May 12th is recognized as National Nurses Week. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, the first registered nurse elected to Congress, introduced a Congressional Resolution (House Resolution 540) and released the following statement in recognition of National Nurses Week. “This week, we honor the work of nurses and acknowledge the contributions they make every day to our health care system. This year’s theme: “Nurses: Leading the Way” is especially fitting, because nurses serve on the frontlines of the healthcare system. They staff hospitals, nursing facilities, schools, and even private homes. Nurses not only provide essential care to their patients, but they are also health innovators. They lead the way in the research and development that yields breakthrough treatments and improves the quality of life for patients with chronic illnesses. We must also realize the potential that the nursing profession has to become the premier leader in preventive and public health. No matter the certification or registration, each nurse is important each day to each patient. Help me celebrate National Nurses Week by recognizing the nurses in your community and nationwide.” Congresswoman Johnson continues to be a leader in the fight for expanding recognition and empowerment of nurses throughout the nation. During the 113th Congress, she introduced the National Nurse Act of 2013 with Republican Congressman Peter King. This act would designate the Chief Nurse Officer of the U.S. Public Health Service as the “National Nurse for Public Health.” The National Nurse for Public Health would function alongside the Surgeon General and focus on promoting health, improving healthcare literacy, and reducing health disparities.
05.05.2014	Congresswoman Johnson addressed more than 200 peace activists and Dallas citizens at the peace conference. Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 05, 2014) – On Saturday, May 3, 2014, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the 14th annual ‘A World of Women for World Peace’ conference in Dallas, Texas. There were 200 local citizens, peace activists, and community leaders in attendance. Congresswoman Johnson began ‘A World of Women for World Peace’ to bring greater visibility to victims of war and conflict and to recognize women who promote non-violent conflict resolution within their communities. Every year since it’s inception, hundreds of international peace activists, politicians, and local citizens gather in Dallas to share innovative solutions to promote peace in areas of conflict and political unrest across the globe. “I knew that there was something I had to do to prevent the loss of human life,” Congresswoman Johnson said explaining why she began the peace conference. “I turned to women, who are natural peacemakers. I know that women have a unique ability to connect to both sides of any conflicts, because they are the mothers; they are the wives, and they are the daughters of the soldiers who are losing their lives in battle. Women can have a powerful influence on the peacemaking process when they are brought to the table.” This year’s conference featured an esteemed international panel of peace activists. Presenters included Abigail Disney, international peace activist and executive producer of the internationally acclaimed miniseries, Women, War, & Peace. She is also the granddaughter of Roy Disney, founder of the Walt Disney Company. Additional presenters included: Dr. Dilshad Dayani of World Women Global Council; Rais Bhuiyan of World Without Hate; Saudi Arabian princess and international women’s rights activist, Princess Ameerah Al-Taweel; Judy Chen Hsieh, a television executive and peace activist in Asia. WFAA TV 8 anchor, Shon Gables served as moderator. Rais Bhuiyan, a native of Bangladesh, who was left for dead after being shot by a white supremacist after the September 11, 2001 attacks was one of four “global peacemakers” who spoke to the conference attendees. Bhuiyan pleaded with officials for clemency for the man who left him sightless in one eye and declared “my faith dictated to me that I should attempt to save the life of the man who tried to kill me.” “Women perform quiet and patient work to resolve wars and conflicts around the world… {and} have a special concern for seeing a peaceful world. One of the things that we have never tried is listening to women in our efforts to prevent war and conflict,” said Abigail Disney. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1sdba1B
05.01.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, May 1, 2014) –Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Older Americans Month, which is nationally recognized during the month of May: “Since President Jimmy Carter designated May as Older Americans Month, we have taken this time every year to recognize seniors for their contributions to our nation, and to celebrate the important role they play in our communities. With decades of experience and wisdom, and continued enthusiasm America’s seniors continue to play a vital role in the advancement of our society. This year’s theme: “Safe today, Healthy Tomorrow” brings awareness to critical issue of unintentional injuries sustained by older adults. These injuries result in 6 million doctor or hospital visits, and more than 30,000 deaths each year. I know first-hand that all of us must be more conscious of our safety as we age. I also know seniors have so much to contribute to society. I am proud that we are able to recognize the critical contributions that all older Americans have made in making this country great.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.01.2014	Washington, DC – (Thursday, May 1, 2014) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Lupus Awareness Month, which is nationally recognized during the month of May: “This month, we are committed to using our collective voices to bring awareness to a disease that affects more than 1.5 million Americans -- and more than 100,000 Texans. Lupus is infamously known as the ‘cruel mystery’ because there is no known cause and few treatments exist for this destructive disease. I am particularly passionate about finding a cure for Lupus, because it is a disease that is more prevalent in women, especially women of color. We must act with deliberate speed to increase funding for research aimed at improving the diagnosis and treatment of Lupus.” Congresswoman Johnson submitted a congressional record statement in the House of Representatives officially recognizing Lupus Awareness Month. Americans between the ages of 18-34 are more at risk for suffering from the devastating effects of Lupus, but nearly three-fourths of them have never heard of the disease. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.28.2014	Congresswoman Johnson addressed local students and parents at the 22nd annual Academy Day Dallas, TX – (Monday, April 28, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her 22nd annual Academy Day on Saturday, April 26th at Duncanville Senior High School in Duncanville, Texas. “Being a part of our country’s military is high calling. It will prepare you for a great future,” Congresswoman Johnson said while addressing nearly 150 high school students aspiring to join one of the country’s five service academics. “The future of America’s standing in the world would be decided by men and women who attend institutions where they received an exceptional education and military training.” Students in attendance met graduates of the military academies and representatives of the Air Force Academy, Coast Guard Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, Naval Academy, and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Joined by their parents, the students learned that an education at the academies was paid for by the federal government. Graduating students are commissioned officers in the armed series and must serve as officers. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1kmtT7u ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.25.2014	Congresswoman Johnson address the hundreds of students that attended the science & technology brain trust. Washington, DC – (Friday, April 25, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 22nd annual Science and Technology Brain Trust as part of the U.S. News STEM Solutions Conference. This year’s panel centered on expanding minority participation in the STEM fields. The event was attended by hundreds of Washington D.C. area middle and high school students and STEM professionals from around the globe. “I founded the Brain Trust over 20 years ago in order to identify strategies to broaden participation in the sciences and to inspire minority youth to pursue careers in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM),” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Brain Trust brings together celebrities, community leaders, and mentors to achieve this goal.” As the first female and first African American Ranking Member on the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, Congresswoman Johnson founded the Brain Trust in order to identify opportunities for youth to believe in what they can achieve by being exposed to positive examples. The panelists connected with the students in attendance by discussing their various paths to success in their respective fields. Students were able to ask questions of the panelists and receive advice on how to successfully pursue various STEM careers This year’s panel included a diverse array of scientists, educators and business professionals. The panel was moderated by Veronica Johnson, meteorologist at NBC4 in Washington D.C. Other panelists included Dr. Juan E. Gilbert, Presidential Endowed Professor at Clemson University, Dr. Julian Earls, former director of NASA Glenn Research Center, Dr. Njema Frazier, National Nuclear Security Administration, Dr. Clifton Poodry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Nicholas Lombardo, student at Central Connecticut State University and winner of the TI-Nspire contest, Jeff Livingston, McGraw Hill Education, Saundra Johnson Austin, NACME, Ms. Donna Woodall, Microsoft Corporation, and Kate Sheerin of Google. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.18.2014	Congresswoman Johnson spoke on the many benefits that Texas has received from transportation stimulus spending Pictured with (l to r) Garland Mayor, Douglas Athas, John Barton, and Secretary Anthony Foxx Dallas, TX – (Friday, April 18, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined U.S. Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx at the site of the proposed I-635 LBJ Freeway East on the last stop of the Invest in America, Commit to the Future bus tour. This week, Secretary Foxx has been traveling across the country highlighting transportation projects that have the potential to bring thousands of jobs by improving America’s transportation infrastructure. He visited the great state of Texas to highlight the proposed 11-mile I-635 LBJ Freeway East project that has stalled due to a lack of funding. "The Administration wants to work with Members, such as Congresswoman Johnson, to meet the transportation and infrastructure needs of Texas and other states throughout our country," Secretary Foxx said. “The impact of this highway project will lead to jobs for our citizens.” “It is fitting that the Secretary has chosen Dallas as the capstone of his nationwide trip this week promoting our nation’s infrastructure,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The Dallas area is a major gateway to this country due to its central location. Location is not the only reason our area has become such a critical crossroads for the Texas. Dallas leaders have demonstrated a firm commitment to invest in our infrastructure networks, ensuring that goods and people can travel in and around our city safely.” The event was also attended by Congressman Marc Veasey, Texas Transportation Commissioner Jeff Austin III, Garland Mayor Douglas Athas, and Texas DOT Deputy Executive Director John Barton. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.07.2014	Washington, DC – (Monday, April 7, 2014) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, the first nurse elected to the Congress, has introduced House Resolution 540, recognizing May 6, 2014 – May 12, 2014 as National Nurses Week. This resolution honors the dedicated service and extraordinary contributions of our nation’s devoted and highly trained nursing professionals. “As the first nurse elected to Congress, I recognize that nurses are the glue that hold the American health care system together,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I have seen the growth and expansion of the critical role of nurses from my time at the Veterans Hospital to today with more than three million registered nurses caring for the people of the United States. We must recognize their contribution, and continue to support them in our ever-expanding healthcare system.” House Resolution 540 encourages citizens of the United States to observe National Nurses Week with appropriate recognition that includes ceremonies, activities, and programs that demonstrate the importance of nurses in the everyday lives of patients. Nurses are the largest single group of health care providers in the United States. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.04.2014	Dallas, TX – (Friday, April 4, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced new county-by-county data from the Texas Workforce Commission that shows that more than 133,888 people in Texas have lost unemployment benefits because of the December 28 lapse in the emergency federal program. The data, provided to the Ways and Means Committee, shows how many people through March 29 were cut off from unemployment benefits in every county in the state. The new data comes as the Senate is poised to pass legislation in the coming days that would extend the program through May, including providing retroactive benefits to December 28. The House has yet to take up legislation. “During this time of economic recovery, we must not cut off Texans that have fallen on hard times as they continue to pursue employment, “ said Congresswoman Johnson. “I will continue to work in the House of Representatives to do what the Senate has already done in a bipartisan way, extend the critical lifeline of unemployment insurance.” Federal unemployment insurance took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as Americans continue to recover from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 36 percent, near historic highs. TEXAS COUNTY Number of People Cut off Unemployment Insurance Through March 29 Anderson 186 Andrews 25 Angelina 323 Aransas 91 Archer 27 Atascosa 143 Austin 96 Bailey 33 Bandera 59 Bastrop 306 Baylor 3 Bee 108 Bell 2,187 Bexar 7,463 Blanco 31 Borden 1 Bosque 67 Bowie 642 Brazoria 1,820 Brazos 422 Brewster 30 Briscoe 3 Brooks 45 Brown 130 Burleson 67 Burnet 135 Caldwell 144 Calhoun 123 Callahan 37 Cameron 3,346 Camp 72 Carson 6 Cass 220 Castro 22 Chambers 240 Cherokee 270 Childress 4 Clay 29 Cochran 8 Coke 13 Coleman 26 Collin 3,863 Collingsworth 3 Colorado 69 Comal 442 Comanche 34 Concho 5 Cooke 106 Coryell 359 Cottle 6 Crane 3 Crockett 11 Crosby 11 Culberson 11 Dallam 9 Dallas 16,482 Dawson 43 Deaf Smith 30 Delta 24 Denton 3,181 DeWitt 53 Dickens 10 Dimmit 53 Donley 4 Duval 51 Eastland 53 Ector 327 Edwards 2 Ellis 690 El Paso 4,998 Erath 101 Falls 79 Fannin 134 Fayette 50 Fisher 32 Floyd 88 Foard 3 Fort Bend 2,692 Franklin 33 Freestone 93 Frio 62 Gaines 14 Galveston 2,106 Garza 9 Gillespie 37 Goliad 17 Gonzales 54 Gray 34 Grayson 518 Gregg 618 Grimes 108 Guadalupe 422 Hale 744 Hall 10 Hamilton 20 Hansford 7 Hardeman 7 Hardin 353 Harris 23,667 Harrison 407 Hartley 6 Haskell 7 Hays 548 Henderson 385 Hidalgo 6,819 Hill 182 Hockley 56 Hood 164 Hopkins 120 Houston 82 Howard 69 Hudspeth 10 Hunt 422 Hutchinson 64 Irion 1 Jack 19 Jackson 53 Jasper 300 Jefferson 2,651 Jim Hogg 35 Jim Wells 212 Johnson 686 Jones 44 Karnes 20 Kaufman 560 Kendall 85 Kennedy 3 Kent 2 Kerr 88 Kimble 15 Kinney 14 Kleberg 138 Knox 5 Lamar 281 Lamb 76 Lampasas 118 La Salle 24 Lavaca 36 Lee 56 Leon 62 Liberty 464 Limestone 155 Lipscomb 1 Live Oak 24 Llano 62 Lubbock 685 Lynn 16 McCulloch 38 McLennan 991 McMullen 6 Madison 27 Marion 75 Martin 12 Mason 10 Matagorda 334 Maverick 590 Medina 152 Menard 2 Midland 212 Milam 133 Mills 9 Mitchell 8 Montague 68 Montgomery 1,807 Moore 44 Morris 120 Motley 3 Nacogdoches 279 Navarro 239 Newton 107 Nolan 42 Nueces 1,667 Ochiltree 8 Oldham 3 Orange 798 Palo Pinto 156 Panola 131 Parker 442 Parmer 13 Pecos 33 Polk 194 Potter 360 Presidio 88 Rains 35 Randall 241 Reagan 8 Real 10 Red River 89 Reeves 33 Refugio 18 Robertson 76 Rockwall 333 Runnels 24 Rusk 252 Sabine 74 San Augustine 58 San Jacinto 111 San Patricio 404 San Saba 11 Schleicher 2 Scurry 28 Shackelford 5 Shelby 193 Sherman 1 Smith 1,166 Somervell 23 Starr 924 Stephens 20 Stonewall 3 Sutton 7 Swisher 60 Tarrant 10,659 Taylor 382 Terrell 6 Terry 35 Throckmorton 3 Titus 163 Tom Green 246 Travis 4,513 Trinity 43 Tyler 128 Upshur 157 Upton 10 Uvalde 126 Val Verde 181 Van Zandt 241 Victoria 274 Walker 195 Waller 146 Ward 20 Washington 81 Webb 908 Wharton 214 Wheeler 9 Wichita 388 Wilbarger 32 Willacy 287 Williamson 1,848 Wilson 165 Winkler 14 Wise 223 Wood 154 Yoakum 12 Young 41 Zapata 72 Zavala 122 Total 133,888 ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, Desoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.03.2014	Congresswoman Johnson was presented the award by First Focus’ Cara Baldari Washington, DC – (Thursday, April 3, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was honored by the First Focus Campaign for Children with the “Defender of Children” award. Congresswoman Johnson was presented the award in recognition for her support of policies that advance the well-being of children “I am very appreciative of this recognition by First Focus,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I have spent my entire career making sure we keep children at the forefront. The future of the world is in the hands and minds of our children. I will continue to work to improve the lives and opportunities for all children.” The First Focus Campaign for Children honors legislators who support by our nation's children. First Focus recognizes Members of Congress with the “Champions of Children” and “Defender of Children” awards for their efforts to ensure children and families a national priority in federal policy and budget decisions. In selecting the list of Champions and Defenders, the First Focus Campaign for Children took note of leaders who introduced, co-sponsored, and voted for legislation that met the needs of children. Additionally, the organization considered Members who demonstrated extraordinary initiative by spearheading activities such as sponsoring hearings or garnering the support of their colleagues to improve the health and well-being of children. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.31.2014	(Dallas, TX) – Today, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology held a panel discussion on climate change at UT Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, Texas. The event, titled “A Panel Discussion on Climate Change: How Climate Change Affects Texas and How Texas Can Adapt and Prosper”, included experts from industry, academia, and government. The panel included Dr. Katharine Hayhoe, Associate Professor at Texas Tech University and Director of the Climate Science Center at Texas Tech; Dr. Michael Webber, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, U.T. Austin and Co-Director of the Clean Energy Incubator; Mr. Gabriel Alonso, CEO EDP Renewables and Chairman of the Board of the American Wind Energy Association; Dr. Robert Haley, Professor of Internal Medicine and Director of Epidemiology Division at UT Southwestern Medical Center; and Ms. Jill A. Jordan, City of Dallas Assistant City Manager. Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson and members of the panel. In her opening remarks Ranking Member Johnson said, “While climate change is an issue that must be addressed by the Federal government, first and foremost, I am a Texan, and climate change’s impacts and effects will be felt locally. From increased drought in the Panhandle to concerns over extreme flooding along our coasts and rivers, to the increased risk of wild fires across the state, climate change is an issue that we cannot ignore. Not only will climate change affect the Texas economy, it will impact Texans on a personal level. I’ve seen first-hand, Texan families faced with the task of putting their lives back together after a disaster, and that’s something we can ill afford to have happen more often than it already does.” The event took place on the same day the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) released a report detailing the need for immediate action to address the global impacts of climate change. The report, titled “Climate Change 2014: Impacts, Adaptation, and Vulnerability”, says the adverse effects of climate change can be seen today and require governments to address current vulnerabilities and adapt to these climate related risks. To view the report summary click here. Ms. Johnson concluded her remarks by saying, “I hope that today’s discussion will lead to affirmative steps and concrete actions that we can take to mitigate the damage already done and to adapt to the changes that will occur. Ultimately, we’re all in this together, and by working together we can achieve our shared goals of a robust economy, a healthier public, and a cleaner environment.” To read Ms. Johnson’s full remarks click here. Statements for each panelist and more information on the event can be found here. Please visit our website: https://democrats.science.house.gov
03.31.2014	Dallas, TX – (Monday, March 31, 2014) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of the 87th anniversary of Cesar Chavez’s birthday: “Cesar Chavez was one of America’s greatest champions for civil rights and social justice. His leadership gave rise to a movement that improved the working conditions of all agricultural workers. Chavez used non-violent protest to forge a path to progress. His movement created a lasting legacy not just for Hispanic Americans, but for all Americans.” “There are many lessons from that we can learn from Cesar Chavez today. His movement continues to inspire us to push for an increase of the minimum wage, push for a renewal of unemployment insurance, and ensure that all Americans have access to affordable healthcare.“ ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.24.2014	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with (l to r) Dr. Bruce Gnade of UT at Dallas, Dr. Roosevelt Johnson of NASA, Tiffany Huitt , principal of the science and engineering division at Town View. Dallas, TX – (Monday, March 24, 2014) – Today, the University of Texas at Dallas in conjunction with Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held the 11th annual “Eddie Bernice Johnson Math and Science Lecture Series” at the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center in Dallas, Texas. This lecture series was started by the University of Texas at Dallas in an effort to expose Dallas-area high school students to career opportunities, and accomplished professionals in the disciplines of math and science. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson gave an impassioned address to the more than 300 students in attendance, encouraging them to excel in the study of science and technology because the future of America would be determined by what they decided to do in their academic and professional lives. “I am here to ask each of you for your commitment to science and math because it is these disciplines that will ensure that our nation will stay globally competitive with our international counterparts,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The most important aspect in being globally competitive is the development of young scientists. You have the opportunity to be our next generation of global leaders.” After completing her remarks, Congresswoman Johnson, the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, introduced the keynote speaker, Dr. Roosevelt Johnson. Dr. Johnson is the acting associate director for education at NASA. He addressed the students, telling them that they should consider themselves the future explorers of the universe. “Science is a field that many of you should consider pursuing,” said Dr. Johnson a graduate of Howard University who has spent a large part of his professional life recruiting minority students to study science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) disciplines. “It (science) was not something that had interested me, but it has made a real difference in my life. Many of you in this auditorium are the future scientists that our country needs.” Ms. Tiffany Huitt, the principal of the science and engineering component at Town View, thanked Congresswoman Johnson for holding the lecture series at the school, and for bringing “illuminating speakers” for students each year. “The lecture series has made a real difference in the lives of our students,” Ms. Huitt said. See and download pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1hhv17Z ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.12.2014	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, March 12, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson took action to force an up-or-down vote on key legislation that would extend unemployment insurance for more than two million Americans. Congresswoman Johnson joined her colleagues in signing a discharge petition to bring up the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 3546). The bill extends emergency unemployment insurance for nearly five million Americans looking for work through the end of the year. “The time is now for action on unemployment insurance. Too many Americans and more than 100,000 Texans have been suffering too long,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In this time of economic recovery, our state cannot afford to lose the $171 million in economic activity that has been lost in the first two months of this year due to the 105,000 Texans that were cut off from unemployment insurance.” “Despite repeated efforts from the Democrats in the House of Representatives, Republicans in Congress have callously refused to restore this vital economic lifeline that helps people support their families and pay their bills while they look for a new job.” The number of people who have lost their unemployment benefits as a result of the program’s Dec. 28 expiration surpassed two million last week, according to a new analysis from Ways and Means Committee Democrats. Every week, 72,000 people, on average, are losing their unemployment benefits nationwide without an extension of the program. Despite the growing struggles, House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the program on the House floor. Last month a Senate measure to extend the program came one vote short of the 60 votes necessary to move forward legislation. To overcome this opposition, today Democrats launched a discharge petition to force action on this widely supported legislation. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.12.2014	Congresswoman Johnson is joined by (l-r) COMTO President Julie Cunningham, Rev. Jesse Jackson, and COMTO Chairman Robert Prince Jr. Washington, DC – (Wednesday, March 12, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was honored by the Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO) for her years of work to improve transportation nationwide. During this third annual “Women Who Move the Nation Awards” ceremony, she was recognized as the “United States Legislator Honoree.” The event brought hundreds of minority transportation officials together to discuss the future of the transportation industry in this country and what COMTO can do to ensure maximum participation in the transportation industry for minority individuals. “The movement of goods and services is the lifeblood of this country. It is so vital that we have all the brightest minds and hardest workers at the table to help push the transportation industry forward,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am doing everything I can to make sure America regains its innovation edge in transportation.” COMTO was founded in 1971 on the campus of Howard University to provide a forum for senior-level minority professionals in the transportation industry. The organization encompasses individuals, organizations, transportation agencies, and non-profits that represent every facet of the transportation sector with chapters all over the country. The “Women Who Move the Nation Awards” was moderated by MSNBC’s Karen Finney and featured a keynote address by Rev. Jesse Jackson. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.04.2014	(Washington, DC) – Following the release of the President’s FY 2015 Budget, Ranking Member Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) released the following statement: “Overall, the President’s budget request is a realistic, yet bold plan for action. I look forward to further examining the proposals in the President’s budget that fall under the jurisdiction of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. The future of American innovation and leadership rest on the investments we make today. In that regard, I am happy to see the Administration take a more deliberative and transparent approach to our nation’s STEM education efforts. Preparing our next generation for the jobs of tomorrow should be our top priority. “Budget increases for some agencies and programs will help maintain U.S. leadership in science and innovation. However, I am disappointed to see flat or even decreased funding in a number of key areas of the federal government’s R&D budget. For example, the budget request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration fails to even meet the 2014 enacted funding level and, if enacted, will hinder the agency’s performance in the coming years. “To provide for additional investments, the President included a proposal to Congress titled, Opportunity, Growth and Security Initiative. I support the goal of increasing our investments in R&D and STEM education and I hope to work with the President and my colleagues to further clean energy technologies and grid modernization, as well as advanced manufacturing initiatives and research on the impacts of climate change.”
03.04.2014	Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, March 4, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice joined millions of Americans in marking the annual celebration of March as Women’s History Month – a commemoration that has occurred in America since 1987. This year’s theme is Celebrating Women of Character, Courage, and Commitment. “During Women’s History Month, we celebrate the enormous progress that has been made for American women. This year’s theme, Celebrating Women of Character, Courage, and Commitment, speaks to the persevering women trailblazers throughout our country’s history who struggled, suffered, and prevailed on behalf of the advancement of women,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “In the last several years, there have also been new gains for women. For example, there are now a record number of women serving in Congress – with 20 women now serving in the Senate and 82 women in the House of Representatives.” “Much progress has been made for the women of America, but much more remains to be done,” Congresswoman Johnson points out. “When the average woman still only makes 77 cents for every dollar a man makes and the poverty rate among women is the highest its been in two decades, there is definitely more work to be done.” “American women have made great strides over the last 100 years – but the fight for equal opportunity is far from over,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “There is more work to do in Texas and throughout the country to provide women with the economic security and opportunities they deserve and their families need.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.24.2014	Congresswoman Johnson & Congressman Lewis surrounded by Texas interfaith leaders at the Music Hall at Fair Park Dallas, TX – (Monday, February 24, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 21st annual interfaith prayer breakfast at the Music Hall at Fair Park. The theme of this year’s breakfast was “prayer, the foundation of equality and justice,” and featured a keynote address by civil rights icon, Congressman John Lewis (GA-05). “The very foundation of my life is prayer,” Congressman Johnson said to a breakfast audience of more than 140 people. The attendees included members of the clergy, elected officials, business owners and a group of Dallas students that last November retraced routes taken by the “Freedom Riders” who fought to integrate segregated workplaces and public facilities during the 1960s. Congresswoman Johnson applauded the high school and middle school students for taking the “Freedom Riders” trip. “These young people visited places where Congressman Lewis and others challenged the American government to enact laws that gave full citizenship to every American. I was among those that supported their trip, and we are proud of them.” While introducing her congressional colleague, Congresswoman Johnson said that his actions as a civil rights leader were directly related to her decision to run for elected office. “He was beaten, but not discouraged,” she said of the Georgia legislator who is also the only living speaker among those who spoke at the 1963 March on Washington. “There is a sweet spirit of prayer in this place,” Congressman Lewis said as he began his remarks. “I cannot imagine where we would be in this country if our work had not been based on a foundation of prayer.” “If someone had not prayed for me during the beatings I took that left me unconscious I would not be standing here today,” said Congressman Lewis. “Prayer allows us to never give in and never give up. Prayer will change things… Even in the Congress we need prayer.” Reverend Claude Maples, who has been the master of ceremonies of the prayer breakfast since it began two decades ago, introduced members of the clergy representing the Christian, Jewish and Muslim faith. Each of them gave brief remarks after Congressman Lewis gave his address. View and download pictures from the event here: https://bit.ly/1bH288V ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.20.2014	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, February 19, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined students and teachers at Cedar Hill’s West Intermediate School to witness their STEMGenetics demonstrations. STEMGenetics is an innovative life sciences teaching tool and curriculum that helps students learn the skills they will need to compete for in-demand science and technology jobs. Congresswoman Johnson took time to talk to the attending STEM educators and express her thanks for the work they do. “The work that you all are doing with these young students is crucial to America becoming a global leader in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We must prepare our students with a sense of analytical thinking that will allow them to solve the problems of the future. It is important that we start teaching these skills at this young age to allow for these students to aspire to be the scientists, engineers, and inventors of the future. ”As the Ranking Member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Congresswoman Johnson was the featured speaker at a demonstration along with the creators of this cutting edge curriculum, Dr. Michelle Williams of Michigan State University and Dr. Angela DeBarger, a senior research scientist at SRI International“STEMGenetics has proven successful in teaching elementary students fundamental life science ideas that will prepare them for advanced learning in high school biology as well as careers in science and technology,” said Dr. Williams. “We help develop teacher capacity, so they can effectively introduce important science concepts in earlier grades, which means our children are better-prepared.”Research evaluations of the STEMGenetics approach in Texas and Michigan classrooms show that students demonstrate significantly improved understanding of life sciences, biology and genetics concepts, after using STEMGenetics, which features technology that makes it possible for teachers to track student progress and offer feedback throughout the learning process.Dr. Williams stated that the program was funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation, which Congresswoman Johnson’s work helped to secure. Congressman Marc Veasey, Texas State Senator Royce West, the mayor of Cedar Hill and officials from the city’s public school system were also present.See and download pictures from the event here: https://bit.ly/1bMYdrn### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.11.2014	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, February 11, 2014) – Taking bipartisan action to put an end to the GOP manufactured budget crises that have plagued Washington, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted to protect American families from the cost of a dangerous Republican default by taking action on the debt limit. A debt limit increase simply allows Treasury to pay the bills for spending Congress has already approved and does not add one cent to the deficit. The need for today’s action is highlighted by a new analysis by Ways and Means Committee that shows the consequences families in Texas would face under a Republican default. The new analysis shows the damaging effects of default on tax refunds, mortgage rates, retirement savings, Social Security, veterans’ disability and pensions, student loans and Medicare. That is it is crucial to the American families and businesses that some Republicans have stopped holding hostage the full faith and credit of the United States. “Defaulting would put an enormous financial strain on American families, from higher interest rates for mortgages and credit cards to lost retirement savings to delayed Social Security payments and tax refunds, particularly here in Texas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Economists of all political stripes are warning about the potential consequences of default. With just days left, I am glad that some Republicans have taken that prospect seriously and today we have voted on a bipartisan basis to stop playing political games with the full faith and credit of the United States and the livelihoods of American business and families.” The new analysis shows that mortgage rates could rise dramatically during a default, pushing up overall home loan costs. Retirement savings are expected to fall significantly, potentially costing the average person in Texas a drop of $15,000 in 401(k) assets and almost $23,000 in IRA assets just as they did in July and August 2011, when Republicans pushed the U.S. to the brink of default. 3,657,907 Social Security recipients here in Texas may not get their monthly checks, 299,877 disabled veterans may not get their pensions, and tax refunds could be delayed, with the Treasury Department unable to borrow. Student loans could cost significantly more. And doctors and hospitals may not get paid for treating patients with Medicare. The full Texas analysis is available here. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.31.2014	Washington, DC – (Friday, January 31, 2014) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius at Paul Quinn College to urge Texas residents to sign up for coverage under the Affordable Care Act. “Healthcare is the most important issue that I have addressed during my time as an elected official," said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is inexcusable that Republican leaders in Texas, including Governor Rick Perry, have refused to work with the federal government to set up a healthcare exchange where the millions of uninsured Texans can secure affordable insurance and expanded Medicaid coverage.” Secretary Sebelius highlighted the fact that Texas has a higher percentage of uninsured residents than any other state in the nation. "There are five million people in Texas without health insurance," Secretary Sebelius said. "Having health insurance is the civil rights issue of our time. It makes no sense. It costs Texas $18 million each day that it refuses to accept Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act.” "Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson has been a champion in the fight for the expansion of healthcare insurance for our citizens," said Secretary Sebelius. Congresswoman Johnson and Secretary Sebelius were joined at the press conference by executives from area hospitals, the president of the Dallas NAACP and Michael Sorrell, the President of Paul Quinn College. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.19.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 19, 2013) – With 1.3 million Americans losing all of their federal unemployment insurance on Dec. 28, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today urged an immediate extension of the program. House Republicans in mid-December blocked an effort by Democrats to extend the program before the Dec. 28 cut-off, which leaves 64,294 individuals in Texas without any unemployment insurance even as the rate of Americans who have been out of work for longer than six months remains near historic highs.“At a time when families should be coming together to celebrate and enjoy the holidays, hundreds of thousands are seeing their entire lifeline cut-off because of the efforts of House Republicans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Americans deserve better at a time when our economy continues its recovery from the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. Speaker Boehner must allow the House to vote so we can extend this vital relief for people who worked hard, played by the rules, and lost their jobs through no fault of their own.”The federal unemployment insurance program – formally called Emergency Unemployment Compensation – took effect in 2008 and has been reauthorized several times since as the economy continues its recovery. Despite the real progress the economy has made since its near collapse in 2008, there are still 1.3 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession began and long-term unemployment as a percentage of the unemployed is 37 percent, far higher than during previous recessions. On average, nationwide, the program provides about $300 a week to recipients.Failure to extend federal unemployment insurance would also hurt job growth locally and throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.05.2013	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with Nelson Mandela during a 90’s trip to South Africa Dallas, TX – (Thursday, December 5, 2013) – Today, the world lost one of its greatest leaders with the passing of former South African president, Nelson Mandela. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson had the privilege to meet and work with Nelson Mandela and issued the following statement following his passing:“Today the world mourns the loss one of its greatest heroes. President Nelson Mandela was truly a beacon of hope and inspiration not only to the people of his country, but to the entire world. I am so sad to hear of his passing, and I pray for his family and the people of South Africa as they grieve over the loss of Mandela. I have been fortunate to not only meet, but work with Nelson Mandela during my career. I have been able to draw inspiration and guidance from the examples he has set. He was the ultimate “uniter” that not only brought an end to apartheid in South Africa, but served as an example for many nations on how to peacefully bring about democratic change. I am grateful to have known and learned from this great man and keep his family and country in my prayers.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
12.01.2013	Dallas, TX – (Sunday, December 1, 2013) – Today marks the recognition of World Aids Day. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement in recognition of this important day:“Today, around the world, we take a moment to reflect and recognize World Aids Day. Each year since 1988, we commemorate those who have died and show our support for those living with HIV and AIDS.While numerous scientific advances have been made in HIV treatment, World AIDS Day reminds us that HIV is still destructive and that there is no cure. There is still a critical need for funding, research, and education in our country and abroad.The passage of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief and Stewardship and Oversight Act (PEPFAR) is encouraging because of the necessity of an international response to the ongoing HIV/AIDS pandemic. Eleven years ago, I initiated the first round of PEPFAR talks with President George W. Bush while I was the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.As we embark on another reauthorization of the Ryan White CARE Act, it is imperative that we remain diligent in the battle against AIDS. I will continue to do what is necessary to engage in this fight to promote public health around the world. I urge my colleagues fight this battle and to join me as we recognize World AIDS Day.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.22.2013	Dallas, TX – (Friday, November 22, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of President John. F. Kennedy:“Today, we take a moment to recognize the 50th anniversary of the passing of an extraordinary and progressive individual, our 35th President of the United States, John Fitzgerald Kennedy. President Kennedy was elected during a time period when change was imminent even in the midst of resistance. Throughout a tumultuous time in this country’s history, President Kennedy stood strong against those who saw this nation’s progress as a threat. During the height of the civil rights movement, President Kennedy’s willingness to engage in the struggle for the equal rights of all people transcended his era. He embraced civil rights and encouraged an entire nation to join him in the fight for justice.President Kennedy also advocated for technological advancement and encouraged unprecedented innovation during his time. As the ranking member on the Science, Space and Technology committee, I admire the will of President Kennedy to further our country’s space exploration capabilities. President Kennedy placed an emphasis on the country’s scientific competitiveness that few considered necessary. President Kennedy displayed a courageous and resilient vision for this country that is consistent, in every way, with the title of Commander-in-Chief.As we commemorate this moment with respect and reverence here in Dallas, I ask all Americans to join me in remembering the legacy of this great man, John F. Kennedy.”
11.15.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, November 15, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted against the partisan bill H.R. 3350, “Keep Your Health Plan Act.” The proposal marks the 46th time House Republicans have moved to undermine the Affordable Care Act and put insurance companies back in charge of Americans’ health care. Congresswoman Johnson had the following remarks regarding her reasoning for voting against this harmful bill:“This legislation is not only misleading, it also does not mandate that insurance companies keep beneficiaries in their policies, so they can still be kicked off their insurance at any time. This bill was solely introduced to undermine the Affordable Care Act and allows health insurers to continue to sell low quality plans through 2014.H.R. 3350 reverses several positive policies enacted by the Affordable Care Act. The bill would allow insurance companies to discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions, restore an annual cap on how much care a beneficiary can receive, and forces women to pay more than men for exactly the same coverage.We cannot allow our citizens to become vulnerable by passing laws that will ultimately hurt them. We can, however, support targeted fixes to the Affordable Care Act when problems such as insurance terminations arise.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.14.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, November 14, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was one of the 12 Democrats appointed to represent the House of Representatives on the conference committee with the Senate for the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (H.R. 3080). Congresswoman Johnson was a co-sponsor of the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013, which was passed by the House last month with strong bi-partisan support. The Senate passed its own version of water resources legislation, S. 601, earlier this year. “I have supported language in this bill to increase commercial navigation capabilities for Texas’ ports and waterways,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As a confereeI will work to bring forth a strong piece of legislation that protects our water resources and boosts economic development through our nation’s ports and waterways.”Congresswoman Johnson serves as the senior Texas Democrat on the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, which has primary jurisdiction over this legislation. Congresswoman Johnson has a long history of leadership on water resources legislation, having served as Chairwoman of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee that helped craft and guide the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2007 into law over a presidential veto. The current version of the legislation contains language championed by Congresswoman Johnson that will increase commercial navigation capabilities for Texas’ ports and waterways.“As the Co-Chair of the Texas Maritime Caucus and a senior member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Eddie Bernice Johnson has been a forceful advocate for the investments in our water based infrastructure that are critical to boosting our global competitiveness and to creating jobs,” said the Ranking Member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, Congressman Nick Rahall. “The conference committee will benefit tremendously from her wealth of experience as the final water resources bill is crafted.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.13.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, November 13, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, as co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, held a briefing commemorating National Homeless Awareness month. The event was held in conjunction with the National Center on Family Homelessness & First Focus, Senator Patty Murray, and the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness co-chair, Alcee Hastings. The briefing highlighted the latest policy and research on child, youth and family homelessness and housing. There were panelists from several related organizations that spoke on the various aspects of what homelessness looks like in America and what current efforts have done to decrease homelessness. Panelists included: Carmela J. DeCandia, Director of the National Center on Family Homelessness, Mark Johnson, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Special Needs, Office of Community Planning and Development, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and Gregory Lewis, Executive Director of the True Colors Fund.“It is important that we support the most vulnerable segment of our society,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “National Homeless Awareness Month allows us to educate the public and mobilize individuals to work to end homelessness. The Congressional Caucus on Homelessness is bringing together various organizations across the country to help us produce the best possible legislation to help in the fight against hunger and homelessness.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.11.2013	Dallas, TX – (Monday, November 11, 2013)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Veterans Day:“Veterans Day is an opportunity for all Americans to honor the tremendous sacrifices made by the men and women in our Armed Forces. These exceptional Americans have answered one of the highest callings in our country, to protect our freedom around the world.In the last paragraph of his second inaugural address, Abraham Lincoln uttered the words that would ultimately comfort untold numbers of veterans and their families for generations to come. Lincoln challenged the divided nation to ``Bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow, and his orphan.'' This is the test and measure of our nation. As a country, we must be united in honoring our living veterans.I served as the chief psychiatric nurse at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Dallas during the 70's. I was privileged to serve in the day care and rehabilitation center of the facility. I know firsthand the importance of caring for America's veterans.On this Veterans Day, we can celebrate the fact that 1 million veterans, service members, and their family members have benefited from the Post-9/11 GI bill since the program’s inception in August 2009. The GI bill has allowed the Veterans Benefits Administration to distribute over $30 billion in the form of tuition and other education-related payments to veterans, service members, and their families.As we all reflect this Veterans Day, please take the time to thank our veterans and active duty military for their selflessness. We all truly appreciate their service, and the sacrifices they and their families make every day to keep us safe.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.08.2013	Dallas, TX – (Friday, November 08, 2013)– Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice announced $5,600,000 million in grant awards to community health centers in Texas to expand access to health care, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. These funds will allow the centers to serve 46,000 additional patients in Texas. Nationwide, 236 health center programs will receive approximately $150 million in grant awards to serve more than 1.25 million additional patients.“Community health centers serve a vital role in ensuring access to comprehensive, quality, primary health care services to many of our vulnerable residents,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Texas has more uninsured residents than any other state in America. With these new funds, community health centers will provide even more individuals and families in our state with access to high-quality affordable health care.”Through the Affordable Care Act’s commitment to expand access to high quality health care for all Americans, these grants will be used by the community health centers to support establishment of new full-time service delivery sites. Today, nationwide approximately 1,200 health centers operate more than 9,000 service delivery sites that provide care to over 21 million patients in every state. Since the beginning of 2009, health centers have added 4 million patients and more than 35,000 new full-time positions.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
11.05.2013	Congresswoman Johnson presents the veterans with tributes for their serviceDallas, TX – (Tuesday, November 5, 2013)– On November 4, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a ‘Veterans’ Day Celebration’ at the Veterans Resource Center of Dallas. Congresswoman Johnson honored the service of veterans from World War II, Korean, and Vietnam wars.“We know the challenges veterans face when they return home from duty. The Veterans Resource Center has found an effective model to meet the challenges that our veterans face and they are taking steps to eliminate those challenges for these individuals and their families,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This Veterans’ Day, let us not forget the veterans. As a Member of Congress, I carry the responsibility of protecting and caring for our veterans and their families with me each and every day.” Congresswoman Johnson presented tributes to Navy veterans Thomas Benton, Verbon “Buck” White, and Frank DeVault. She honored World War II Army nurse Ann PreJean. Congresswoman Johnson also honored Korean War veteran Frank Zoeller.“Nothing brings me closer to my roots then coming here to being amongst those who have served. As the daughter of a veteran, I will be forever grateful for those that answer what I consider the highest calling, serving in the military,” Congresswoman Johnson said in closing.See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/1cCF6jz
11.01.2013	Dallas, TX – (Friday, November 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the substantial reduction in Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits that occurs today. “Families throughout Texas are going through tough times. This cut in benefits hurts so many working families, mothers, and worst of all children,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is unconscionable to think that while our country is still recovering from the great recession of 2008, we would leave so many families without the necessary nutrition they need to keep surviving. This is an issue that affects Americans of all races in all states. I will continue to work hard to get the ‘Extend Not Cut SNAP Benefits Act’ passed.”Today the temporary benefit boost provided for in the 2009 American Reinvestment and Recovery Act for households across the country that are participating in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) ends. Working families that rely on SNAP will see their monthly benefits sharply reduced. The program is being cut by $4.8 billion in fiscal year 2014 and a total of $10.5 billion through fiscal year 2016. This cut represents a serious blow to struggling families and will leave the average person on SNAP to receive less than $1.40 per meal.According to a report by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (CBPP), in total, the cut will result in a reduction in benefits of $29 per month, or a loss of 16 meals a month, for a family of three. This reduction will push millions of SNAP participants over the cliff, including 22 million children, 9 million people who are elderly or have a serious disability, and 900,000 veterans nationwide.Congresswoman Johnson is a cosponsor of H.R.3108, the “Extend Not Cut SNAP Benefits Act,” a one-year extension through FY 2014 of the 2009 Recovery Act boost to SNAP benefits. This week, Congresswoman Johnson also signed onto a letter to Speaker Boehner signed by the entire Democratic Caucus making clear that the final Farm Bill must be crafted in such a way as to ensure that hunger does not increase. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.30.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, October 30, 2013)– Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas has awarded an $500,000 Affordable Housing Program (AHP) grant to the Dallas area nonprofit, Lifenet Texas. The AHP funds will help replace the ageing heating, ventilation and air conditioning unit at Prince of Wales, a housing community serving homeless Dallas residents.“I am happy that a deserving organization like Lifenet Texas will be able to use these funds to serve the homeless residents of my district,” the Congresswoman said. “This money will go to improve the facilities at the Prince of Wales housing community. We must continue to work and do all we can to help end homelessness in Dallas.”The Affordable housing Program was designed to help FHLB member institutions develop affordable owner-occupied and rental housing for very low- to moderate-income families and individuals. The program provides direct grants and subsidized loans to assist members in meeting their community's affordable housing needs.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.29.2013	Congresswoman Johnson addresses the peace conference attendees Washington, DC – (Tuesday, October 29, 2013)– On October 28, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her annual “A World of Women for World Peace” Conference in Washington D.C. This peace initiative was started by the Congresswoman more than 13 years ago and has garnered international acclaim for bringing awareness to the role women play in creating world peace. The conference was attended by more than a hundred different peace activists and leaders from around the globe. Democratic House of Representatives Minority Leader, Nancy Pelosi, also offered remarks on the importance of these women led movements throughout the world.“I began this women’s peace initiative in 2001 to bring greater visibility to the women who are victims of war and aggression and the women who promote peacemaking, peacekeeping and peace-building activities in their communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am thankful for all of our distinguished panelists. Today’s messages sparked conversations and offered solutions on how to bring more women to the table in these areas of the world where they are striving for peace.” The panelists included a diverse array of leaders from various countries. All of the speakers have been making important strides in bringing peaceful solutions to areas of the riddled in conflict. The conference was moderated by Pamela Aall, senior advisor at the U.S. Institute of Peace, and featured two panels that focused on educating and improving the lives of women in areas of Afghanistan, Central Africa, and Pakistan. The first panel of speakers included: Dr. Otunba Basirat Nahib, founder of Women Advancement for Economics & Leadership Empowerment in Africa, Maryam Rashid, executive director of Afghan Education for a Better Tomorrow, and Paul Rusesabagina, the man that the Oscar nominated movie, Hotel Rwanda was based on. The second panel included the executive director of the Welfare Association for the Development of Afghanistan, Jean Kissell, Miki Kashtan, founder of Bay-NVC, and founder of the women-led Pakistan organization AWARE girls, Gulalai Ismail.See pictures from the event here: https://bit.ly/16jihwiGet more background information on each of the panelists here: https://1.usa.gov/1irBX3i### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.24.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, October 24, 2013)– On October 23, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted in favor of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) of 2013, a bipartisan bill that authorized Corps of Engineers funding for improvements to America’s ports, waterways, and projects. The legislation included flood protection, drinking water, dams and levees, and issues related to environmental restoration. The measure was designed to increase investments in improving the nation’s ports, by calling for an increase in the percentage of revenues collected each year through the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund spent on harbor projects. The legislation authorized nearly a billion dollars for enhancing Texas ports and waterways and provides for an assessment of the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway.“As the Senior Texan on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and cosponsor of this legislation, I supported this legislation but that doesn’t mean I will stop working on those provisions that weaken environmental protections and the ability of the public to participate in streamlining provisions of the bill.”“As Co-Chair of the Texas Maritime Caucus, I have supported language in this bill to increase commercial navigation capabilities for Texas’ ports and waterways. I am excited about Texas’ ports and the role that they play in cultivating the Texas economy, the National economy, and the global economy.”The Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013 passed with overwhelmingly bi-partisan support by a vote of 417 yeas to 3 nays.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.21.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, October 21, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the election of Lorraine C. Miller to serve as interim President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP):“I am very happy that the NAACP has chosen Fort Worth, Texas native Ms. Lorraine Miller to serve as interim president and CEO. Ms. Miller is a dedicated and accomplished community leader that has showed unwavering commitment to the vision and mission of the NAACP.“I have known Lorraine Miller a number of years, and I am certain that she will prove to be an outstanding leader for this historical organization. For years Ms. Miller has served on boards of integral civil rights organizations, has served as the Washington D.C. NAACP chapter president, and was the first African-American Clerk of the U.S. House of Representatives. I look forward to her to steady leadership during the NAACP’s time of transition.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.12.2013	House Democrats filed into the House chamber one by one to sign the discharge petition Washington, DC – (Saturday, October 12, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson signed a petition to reopen the government. This special congressional procedure, known as a discharge petition, allows a majority of members to bypass Speaker Boehner and force an up or down vote on a bill to reopen the government. The federal government has been closed since October 1, 2013, and Republican leaders have repeatedly refused requests from Democrats and some Republicans to pass a funding resolution without controversial items and reopen the federal government. “We must get the United States government re-opened so we can continue to provide the critical services this country needs. I joined my Democratic colleagues to sign the discharge petition that will allow a vote on a bill to reopen the government,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This shutdown is hurting people throughout Texas and threatens the country’s economy. I am urging my Republican colleagues to come together in the spirit of bipartisanship to end this crisis by signing onto the discharge petition.”The government shutdown has hurt the middle class and our economy, and will get worse as it continues. Costing taxpayers up to $300 million a day, it has stopped critical loans to small businesses and slowed the processing of veterans disability claims. The shutdown has prevented NIH from taking new patients and halted life-saving medical research and stalled much-needed housing loans for American families.The discharge petition for H. Res. 372 would allow an up or down vote on a clean continuing resolution, providing funding through November 15 at a compromise level requested by Speaker Boehner. This discharge petition only needs a majority of House members to sign on and does not require any action by the Republican leadership.Discharge petitions have been proven successful in the past in bringing up legislation for consideration. According to a Congressional Research Service study, seven discharge petitions have received 218 signatures over the last 30 years. And in all seven cases, the majority party agreed to bring the measure to the House floor.12 measures were allowed to be brought to the House floor even before the discharge petition reached the full 218 signatures. You can see which Members of Congress have signed onto the discharge petition in real time by visiting the House Clerk’s office here: http://clerk.house.gov/113/lrc/pd/petitions/DisPet0005.xml ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.10.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, October 10, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice released the following floor statement in recognition of the one year anniversary of the failed assassination attempt of Malala Yousafzai. The 16-year-old activist for girls’ education was shot in the head by a Taliban gunman while riding the bus home from school in her home nation of Pakistan. Malala Yousafzai has inspired the world with her bravery and devotion to education equality.“Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Malala Yousafzai. On October 9, 2012 – one year ago today – Malala was the target of an assassination attempt by the Taliban because she chose to speak out against their efforts to ban girls from school in her Swat Valley neighborhood of Pakistan. Since then, Malala has emerged as a leading voice for underprivileged children, especially girls, in the fight for global education equality.Along with former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown and the "A World at School" movement, Malala will work to raise $500 million over the next three years to provide education to the 300,000 Syrian school-aged children living in Lebanon. In addition to this and winning an International Children's Peace Prize for her overall efforts,Malala was recently honored at the opening dedication of Europe’s largest public library. In a recent address given at the UN, she reiterated her mission, “They thought that the bullets would silence us, but they failed...and then, out of that silence, came thousands of voices.”For many, Malala Yousafzai, is a symbol of resilience and courage in her fight for global education equality. Please join me in supporting Malala and her efforts on the anniversary of the Taliban’s heinous failed assassination attempt. I proudly acknowledge and encourage her to continue her efforts for education equality.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.07.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, October 7, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 12th anniversary of the start of the war in Afghanistan:“Today marks the 12th anniversary of the beginning of the war in Afghanistan. This is now the longest war in American history, and has cost our country billions of dollars and thousands of lives. The brave men and women of our armed forces have borne a very heavy burden during this lengthy conflict. President Obama has vowed to bring an end to this war and has begun the drawdown our troops in Afghanistan. “As this war winds down, we must be ready to assist with the transition of the thousands of new veterans that are returning home. Many veterans come home with severe disabilities that make it challenging for them to integrate into civilian life. These heroes deserve the best care available, and in order to ensure they receive that care I recently signed on as an original cosponsor of the Veterans’ Independent Living Enhancement Act. This bill will remove the cap on the number of veterans eligible to participate in the Independent Living Program which provides services to veterans to maximize their independence. We must continue to care for the men and women that have paid the heaviest price to keep our country safe.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.03.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, October 3, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement following the reports of shots fired at Capitol Hill: “I want to inform all my constituents that there were shots fired at the U.S. Capitol this afternoon. Details surrounding the shooting are still coming forward. My staff and I are all safely locked down in the building. I pray that this situation is resolved soon and that there is no further violence.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
10.01.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, October 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) released the following statement regarding the Government shutdown: “Today, hundreds of thousands of federal employees though out the country, including more than 50,000 Texans did not go to work today and face uncertainty on when how they will pay their bills during this crisis. On what should be a great day for America, with the opening of the new health insurance market places, members of the extreme wing of the Republican party are playing the blame game on who is at fault for the federal government shutdown. I was elected by the constituents of the 30th district to govern responsibly and with the best interests of the American people. I was not elected to hold the American people or our economy hostage when our political parties disagree.“I, along with my staff in Washington D.C. and Dallas, will continue to work hard to serve the people of Texas throughout this shutdown. Starting today, the healthcare law will allow my constituents looking for coverage to purchase affordable, quality health insurance through the new online marketplace. This new online marketplace provides a very simple way to get health insurance that will meet your needs, your lifestyle, and your budget at any income level. Though the government has shut down, the Affordable Care Act will continue.“The only pathway forward is for the Republicans responsible for the shutdown to abandon their reckless strategy of pushing for the repeal, defunding, or delay of the Affordable Care Act at any cost to our country. I urge, Speaker John Boehner and Republican members of Congress to end the shutdown by working with Democrats to pass a clean funding bill that gives us the time we need to craft a longer term budget agreement.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.30.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, September 30, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) released the following statement after voting against the latest Republican proposal designed to shut down the government:“House Republicans continue to stick by an extreme legislative agenda that does not have a chance to pass in the Senate nor be signed into law by the President. We are witnessing a reckless agenda aimed to deliberately shutdown the government resulting in direct harm to our children, seniors, working families and economy.” Congresswoman Johnson stated, “I want to assure the citizens in my district that my offices will remain open and fully staffed to ensure that lines of communication with the citizens of the thirtieth district remain open. This is a critical time for my constituents, so I know my constituent services are needed more than ever.”As of today, the Administration has advised:· 140,000 Federal employees in Texas alone would be immediately and indefinitely furloughed, and many Federal employees and contractors that continue to work would not be paid during the shutdown.· Housing loans to low and middle income families in rural communities would be put on hold, as would start-up business loans for farmers and ranchers.· The Department of Defense estimates that during a shutdown nearly half of the civilian workforce would be sent home without pay, while the rest would continue to work for delayed pay, impacting the 51,621civilian workers in Texas.· SBA would stop approving applications for small businesses to obtain loans and loan guarantees. In a typical month, SBA approves over $1 billion in loan assistance to small businesses.· All facilities and services in our national parks would be closed, as would the Smithsonian, impacting the hundreds of thousands of people that visit these sites daily. This would have severely negative impacts on the surrounding local communities that rely on the revenue generated by travel and tourism to these destinations.· Important government research into life-threatening diseases, environmental protection, and other areas would be halted.· The government would stop issuing permits to conduct drilling operations on Federal lands, and would stop or delay environmental reviews of planned transportation and energy-related projects, keeping companies from working on these projects. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.27.2013	Dallas, TX – (Friday, September 27, 2013) – Today,nearly 150 small business owners and community activists attended the third of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s Small Business Series in Dallas today to learn how they and their employees can benefit from the Affordable Care Act.“I believe that small businesses are the backbone of America’s economy and these enterprises will be a key factor in strengthening our economy and creating jobs,” said Congresswoman Johnson in a telephone address to the business owners.”“I am a staunch supporter of small business and am proud to partner with those of your present today who are champions of small business, and the affordable health care act as they advance the North Texas economy,” said the Congresswoman who has organized a series of small business meeting to inform business owners about how they can benefit from government programs“We desperately need affordable health care, said Yolanda Olivarez, the Regional Administrator for the U.S. Small Business Administration. “It is the right thing to do for the American people. We have one hundred and twenty-nine million Americans with pre-existing conditions who will now be able to get affordable health coverage because of the new law. The law will also make our economy stronger, and it will promote healthier living by people who live in this country.Dr. James R. Farris, the Regional Administrator for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services in Dallas, said “The Affordable Care Act and its exchanges will promote an environment in which insurance companies will have to compete for the business of people. As a result, the costs of insurance premiums will be lower.”“The health care law will provide insurance to people who have been uncovered. Small businesses will benefit greatly from the act,” said Dr. Farris, a physician. “There are 500,000 people in Dallas County that are uninsured. That is inexcusable, and the Affordable Care Act is designed to drastically reduce that number.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.27.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, September 27, 2013) – On Wednesday, September 25th, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced a resolution recognizing September 22nd through 28th as national Historically Black Colleges and Universities week. This resolution comes a year after a Presidential Proclamation by President Barack Obama in 2012 recognizing HBCUs for their contributions.“We cannot move forward as a country until all our children have the opportunity to succeed academically,” Said Congresswoman Johnson. “Each day, Historically Black Colleges and Universities help us to bridge the achievement gap—and it is critical that we properly recognize those contributions.”Despite HBCUs comprising only 3% of the nation’s colleges, HBCUs enroll 16% of all African Americans in 4-year degree-granting institutions, graduate 30% of African Americans in 4-year degrees, and confer 24% of all doctorates earned each year by African Americans. Additionally, HBCUs produce minority scientists, doctors, teachers, and lawyers at a much higher rate than their counterparts. HBCUs continue to provide a path to high-quality education and are extremely effective in graduating African American students while also preparing them to compete in a global economy. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
09.20.2013	Students watched presentations and asked panelists questions about STEM careers Dallas, TX – (Friday, September 20, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson served as the honorary host of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s (CBCF) 21st Annual Science and Technology Brain Trust during the 43rd Annual Legislative Conference (ALC) at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center in Washington, D.C. The panel discussion ran from 9:00 a.m. – noon, and was live-streamed via the NASA website.“For 21 years, I have worked diligently to expand opportunities for young people of color,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is important that young people are exposed to the resources and role models in science, technology, engineering, and math fields, so that we can continue to cultivate the young minds that will soon lead our nation. I am so delighted that all of you have come to this panel discussion to engage with these extraordinary panelists and learn more about careers in STEM.”As the first female and first African American Ranking Member on the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, Congresswoman Johnson founded the Brain Trust in order to identify opportunities for youth to believe in what they can achieve by being exposed to positive examples.Panelists include Dr. Bernard Harris, first African American to perform a spacewalk and medical doctor; Dr. Roosevelt Y. Johnson, Deputy Associate Administrator for Education with NASA; Mr. Fred Humphries, Microsoft Corp. VP US Government Affairs; Mr. Ray Dempsey, BP VP Public Affairs; Mr. Harold Strong, AP Developer – University of North Texas; Dr. Scott Edwards, Harvard University Professor of Biology; Mr. Barrington Irving, Aviator; Dr. Karina Edmonds, Cal Tech and former U.S. Department of Energy Technology Transfer Coordinator; Dr. Nerma Frazier, U.S. Department of Energy; Ms. Francessca Spencer Vasquez, Oracle; Dr. Gregory Primus, Former NFL Player and Orthopedic Surgeon; Mr. Adam Conner, Facebook; Ms. Megan Smith, VP of Google X; Mr. Beck Pringle, National Education Association; Moderator – Lesli Foster, WUSA9 News.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.20.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, September 20, 2013) - Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) will award a federal grant of $7,148,999 to Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) for phase 1 of rehabilitative construction on an existing taxiway."I would like to congratulate DFW Airport on receiving these funds," said Congresswoman Johnson. "Even during this current budget climate, I have consistently advocated for continued efforts to improve our nation's transportation infrastructure. I know that this grant will be used to make necessary improvements to the airport's infrastructure."### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.19.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, September 19, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted against H.R. 3102, Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act, Republican legislation which cuts basic food aid (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program/SNAP) by nearly $40 billion over ten years. The measure will deny basic food assistance for nearly 4 million Americans. The measure passed by a vote of 217 to 210.“Today, I voted against a debilitating bill that affects the millions of low-income American families, because many of our citizens are already living on the edge of poverty, and these cuts would virtually eliminate the assistance they desperately need,” said Congresswoman Johnson. In Dallas County, 450,000 residents are food insecure, 300,000 of which are children.”The bill contains a number of provisions that ignore the reality that millions of Americans continue to struggle with unemployment at 6.5% in Texas. The House bill would also cut school lunches for over 200,000 children and eliminate food assistance for 170,000 veterans. The Republican bill would subsequently eliminate 55,000 jobs in the first year alone.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “In 2011, SNAP lifted 4.7 million people out of poverty. It’s not just the black or Hispanic populations who receive SNAP benefits, but it’s the working class, the elderly, and the disabled. Cutting this program would be devastating to the millions of Americans who are working hard to provide for their families.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.11.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, September 11, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in remembrance of the victims of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks:“Today, the American people pause to remember the victims and families who were impacted by the devastating terrorist attack on our country twelve years ago. We come together to show our gratitude and appreciation for the first responders who sacrificed their lives in the face of unspeakable tragedy. Although this day resurfaces many ill feelings, we must always continue to honor the nearly 3,000 lives lost and an entire Nation moved by the attack.While the September 11th Attacks will forever remain in our hearts and minds as a National tragedy, it also marks a day that the strength and perseverance of the American people was never so palpable. During this time of remembrance, let us recommit ourselves to working diligently to strengthen our national security, while preserving the freedoms that have defined our Nation.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.10.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, September 10, 2013) –Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on President Obama’s leadership as events unfold surrounding the chemical attack in Syria:“I would like to applaud President Barack Obama for his efforts in recognizing the Syrian people who were affected by an unprecedented chemical attack on August 21, 2013. An estimated 1,400 innocent Syrian civilians – including many women and children – were killed, while millions have been displaced as refugees.Even amid controversy, President Obama has shown leadership and vehemently denounced the Syrian regime’s actions as inhumane. It is important that we distinguish the President’s efforts to protect international law and humanitarian interests during this difficult time. Although many of my colleagues and I have not made final decisions on whether to authorize an attack on Syria, I believe it is imperative that we acknowledge the President’s diplomatic efforts during this crisis.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.06.2013	Dallas, TX – (Friday, September 6, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and the Dallas Coalition for Hunger Solutions held their second annual Hunger Summit from 8 a.m. to noon at the Texas Discovery Gardens in Fair Park. The Coalition is chaired by Congresswoman Johnson and works diligently to ensure that all Dallas County residents are empowered to gain equal access to healthy food.“We have 400,000 people in Dallas County who go to bed hungry every night; 180,000 of those are children and the situation is unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We must look out for our children, because they are our future. We must find solutions to eradicate hunger.”During the summit, officials discussed strategies currently being implemented to reduce hunger and increase access to healthy food options in Dallas.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “I stand with all of you from various organizations represented here this morning in our roles of being advocates to ensure that those who are hungry are cared for and loved. It is a part of God’s work for us to reach out to people who are hungry. No child and no family should be without food.”Dallas Mayor Pro Tem Tennell Atkins noted, “Working together, we can find the solutions to this plight that some face. Every person in our city should have access to nutritional food. As people of faith, we must continue to work together so that no one goes to bed hungry. I pledge that I will continue to work with each of you and with Congresswoman Johnson to bring an end to this terrible situation of hungry children and families in our city.”Two years ago, Congresswoman Johnson joined with the Texas Hunger Initiative and other community groups to create the Dallas Coalition for Hunger Solutions. The coalition includes Texas Hunger Initiative, North Texas Food Bank, Dallas Baptist Association, Episcopal Diocese of Dallas, Feed3, Get Health Dallas, and several other local organizations, businesses, and individuals.See and download pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/15C4FZb ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.05.2013	Dallas, TX – (Thursday, September 5, 2013) –Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the U.S. Department of Justice will award a federal grant of $300,000 to Dallas County for the Fiscal Year 2013 Court Training and Improvements Program. The funds will be used to continue to employ a bilingual Pre-Trial Officer to monitor domestic violence offenders during the pre-trial stage of each case; employ a High-Risk Docket Probation Officer to monitor Dallas County Criminal Court No.10’s highest-risk offenders on probation; and provide Spanish translation and interpreter services for victims.“The Court Training and Improvements Program is an important tool to enhance the accessibility to justice for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As an avid supporter of women’s rights, and someone who voted for the Violence Against Women Act, I am pleased to see these funds being used to help victims of domestic violence, and to ensure our court officials are properly trained to deal with issues of domestic violence.” This grant will also support the development of community-based victim assistance programs for the LGBTQ community, and provide training to court-based and court-related personnel on victims’ needs, perpetrator behavior, dating violence and stalking crimes. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
09.03.2013	Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, September 3, 2013) – On Monday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson spoke at the Dallas AFL-CIO Annual Labor Day Breakfast. The breakfast was held at the Hampton Inn and Suites in Mesquite, Texas.“The future of Texas is bound together with the future of labor,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As I reflect on the March on Washington, I recall that it was union leadership that made the March a reality. Like you within the labor movement, I stand for the people of this country. We cannot give up, we cannot give in.”There were about 1500 people in attendance from labor unions, clergy, community organizations and elected state and local officials. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.30.2013	Congresswoman Johnson and Chairman Miller address the press after their oversight visit Dallas, TX – (Friday, August 30, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Congressman Jeff Miller (FL-01), Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, conducted a congressional oversight visit to the Dallas VA Medical Center. The visit is a result of a series of allegations from VA workers, patients and family members regarding poor patient care, and compliance complaints against the VA in the last three years. During Chairman Miller and Congresswoman Johnson’s visit, they attended an executive briefing to discuss consecutive Inspector General reports of non-compliance, operational procedures, and results of a facility investigation and inspection by the VA central office. "While improvements have been made we are not satisfied with the conditions in this hospital," said Congresswoman Johnson. "We want this facility to care for people as much as they care for the professional staff that work here. The people that you serve are veterans, and they deserve the very best treatment as possible. We want that to become a reality."Congresswoman Johnson continued, "There has been a substantial number of patients that have come to our office regarding treatment they have received at the VA. What is happening at the VA is unacceptable and it is must stop. There must be a strong effort to improve conditions at the VA."On Sept. 9 , the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs will examine the Dallas VAMC and a number of other VA facilities during a hearing entitled “A Matter of Life and Death: Examining Preventable Deaths, Patient-Safety Issues and Bonuses for VA Execs Who Oversaw Them.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.29.2013	Dallas, TX – (Thursday, August 29, 2013) – On Wednesday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Thanks-Giving Square hosted the “Let Freedom Ring!” bell-ringing ceremony to commemorate the 50th anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech. The program was held at Thanks-Giving Square Chapel from 1:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. CST. The ceremony included a reading of “I Have a Dream” speech by leaders of different faiths, and a keynote address by NAACP State President Gary Bledsoe.“It’s now a false sense that it’s a fight between blacks and whites,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “It’s not. It’s a fight between justice and injustice. Our battle is as strong today as it was 50 years ago. It has as much to do with ideology as it does with the color of our skin. Until we all work together, we won’t achieve the dream.”NAACP State President Gary Bledsoe said, “There are people that are working actively to do everything they can to deny us our rights.”Across the world, people of all races and religions participated in bell-ringing ceremonies of their own to celebrate and advance the dream. The King Center encouraged organizations all throughout the world to ring their bell at 3 p.m. EST to symbolize the human unity that was the core of Dr. King’s message.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.28.2013	Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, August 28, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington:“Today we reflect on the hundreds of thousands of people who have flocked to the Nation’s capital to demand jobs and freedom. The United States was at the height of the Civil Rights Movement during the 1960s, and African Americans were experiencing extreme acts of violence, discrimination, and suppression. But with the passing of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act, many of us could finally see change on the horizon.The U.S. has made commendable progress for racial equality, and while we take this time to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the March on Washington, let us not become complacent. We have elected the first African American President, but despite popular belief, our struggle for racial equality is not over. The Supreme Court’s decision to strike down one of the most significant pieces of legislation for minorities essentially turned back the clock for millions of Americans. A number of states are enforcing discriminatory voter ID laws that place unnecessary burdens on millions of legitimate voters. We should all make it our ultimate mission to ensure we remove all barriers that keep our nation from advancing the dream. We may not be fighting the most blatant and racially-charged occurrences of the 60s, but racism and oppression are still prevalent in our society. It is imperative that we recommit ourselves to advancing the dream and creating a nation where all Americans are afforded equal protection under the law. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.27.2013	Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, August 27, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the U.S. Department of Justice will award a federal grant of $698,382 to Dallas County for the Fiscal Year 2013 DNA Backlog Reduction Program. The funds will be used to assist Dallas County in their efforts to reduce forensic DNA sample turnaround time, increase the establishment of public DNA laboratories, and reduce DNA backlogs.“I am very pleased to announce that DOJ will award these funds to Dallas County,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I know these funds will be used to ensure that we improve our efforts to reduce current delays in processing, and prevent future backlogs. In order for our criminal justice system to work in a fair and timely manner, we must ensure that our crime laboratories that conduct DNA analysis have the resources they need to run more efficiently and effectively. This is particularly true of the current budget climate we find ourselves in.”Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins noted, “Congresswoman Johnson’s successful efforts to obtain this grant will further enhance District Attorney Craig Watkins’ and Dallas County’s ‘smart on crime’ approach and enhance justice in Dallas County.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.26.2013	Dallas, TX – (Monday, August 26, 2013) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Women’s Equality Day:“Today we celebrate the 93rd anniversary of Women’s Equality Day, and generations of women throughout America. Not only do we take this day to commemorate the passage of the 19th Amendment, but we also acknowledge the perseverance of women, past and present, who have helped bring the fight for women’s equality to the forefront of national debate. As we reflect on the progress that we have made as a nation, it is important that we recognize that equality for women was not achieved without consistent struggle and demand for change, freedom, and opportunity.This past election, women have made history yet again as we ushered in 20 female senators, 16 of which are Democrats and 78 female Members of the House of Representatives, 62 of which are Democrats. These women continue to work diligently to address issues that affect women at home and abroad. Even with these historic moments, it’s clear that our work is far from over as women still struggle for the right to equal pay and the right to affordable health care. Today, let us reaffirm our commitment to removing barriers that prevent women in America and around the world from achieving their full potential.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.24.2013	Washington, DC – (Saturday, August 24, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, along with the Congressional Black Caucus, and other civil rights organizations, attended the 50th Anniversary March on Washington “Realize the Dream” March & Rally. This march was held to commemorate the 1963 “Jobs and Freedom” March on Washington, and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s famous “I Have a Dream” speech. Congresswoman Johnson spoke at the Pre-Rally at the Grand Hyatt Hotel.“Fifty years ago hundreds of thousands of people descended upon the nation’s capital to raise their voices in demand for jobs and freedom. High rates of crime and poverty in African American communities throughout the U.S. were the driving force behind the largest march that our country had ever seen during that time. But with the passing of the 1963 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act, sentiments of hope and change began to resonate throughout the nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson continued, “The United States has made tremendous strides in our fight for equality, yet today we find ourselves once again pleading for the reimplementation and reauthorization of legislation that protected so many minorities. The Supreme Court’s decision to strike down one of the most prominent achievements from the Civil Rights era, further implicates how our struggle for equality is not over. We are seeing a rise of discriminatory voting laws throughout states like Texas that suppress the votes of minorities. We also have members of Congress who are adamantly against protecting the rights of all Americans under the law. All Americans should have the opportunity to achieve their version of the American Dream, but we must remove barriers that impede them from doing so. If Dr. King was alive today, he would acknowledge how far we have come in our struggle for racial and economic equality, but he would implore us all to do our part to advance the dream for future generations.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
08.21.2013	Congresswoman Johnson along with federal and local transportation officials helped cut the ribbon to open the DFW Connector Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, August 21, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson spoke at the ribbon cutting ceremony for the DFW Connector. This $1.1 billion dollar project will improve travel for an 8.4 mile span in Grapevine, Southlake and Irving, and double the size of the existing highway system around the north Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport entrance.“In 2009, I was the lone congressional member of the North Texas delegation to vote for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which resulted in $261 million in funds for this project.As a vocal proponent of advancing our infrastructure and as the most senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am proud to be here today to participate in the tremendous accomplishment that is the DFW Connector – a crucial component in alleviating traffic in the Metroplex,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Federal Highway Administrator Victor Mendez was also a keynote speaker, and other state and local officials provided remarks at the ceremony. The DFW Connector will be the Texas Department of Transportation’s first North Texas highway built as a public-private partnership. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.20.2013	Congresswoman Johnson spoke to the crowd about the benefits of the Affordable Care Act Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, August 30, 2013) – On Monday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33) hosted a forum for the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Health Braintrust “Making Good Health My Reality” tour. The event was held at St. Paul United Methodist Church from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. and provided participants with critical information needed to prepare for enrollment in the Health Insurance Marketplace opening on October 1, 2013.“When Obamacare is mentioned in the future, it will be in the same category as Social Security,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We are about to embark upon one of the most dramatic and profound programs since Social Security.”During the sessions, attendees were able to gain a complete understanding of the Affordable Care Act. Health experts from the local, state and national level shared key information about Medicaid, health insurance exchanges, and the impact of the new law on small business owners and employee coverage. The townhall also featured free, on-site health screenings and fun activities for families to enjoy.“This is an extremely important program. More than one million people in the Dallas/Ft. Worth area are without health insurance. This program is going to be great for our country,” said Congressman Veasey.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.16.2013	Congresswoman Johnson offered inspirational words to the Dallas youth who attended the summit Dallas, TX – (Friday, August 16, 2013) –On Thursday, August 15, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 7th Annual Youth Summit and Diversity Dialogue at the Meadows School of the Arts at Southern Methodist University. Students between the ages 13-17 from the Dallas Fort-Worth area were selected to participate in the summit. Congresswoman Johnson began this program to introduce children to diversity and cultural awareness programs that will prepare them to be future leaders and find solutions to the many problems we face as a society.“Our future begins with you,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “There is nothing that you cannot do if you put your minds to it and stay focused. It’s important that you don’t give up because we are depending on you to lead our country in the future.”The program began with opening ceremonies where students heard from Dr. Gerald Turner, President of Southern Methodist University; Benji Gil, former Major League Baseball Player; and Naveed Patel, Aga Khan Council of the Central US, in addition to remarks from Congresswoman Johnson.Benji Gil provided valuable professional leadership and encouragement to the students. “People tried to tell me that I could not succeed, but I proved them wrong,” said Gil. “You have to work hard if you are going to get where you want to go, and you can get there if you are willing to pursue it.”Congresswoman Johnson and the keynote speakers concluded the summit by encouraging the group to continue serving their communities and to engage in dialogue to foster an understanding of cultural differences. To culminate the program, students from the summit will participate in a service project at the Park Manor Health Care & Rehabilitation Center. The youth will assist the Park Manor staff on special projects and tend to the needs of the residents.View pictures from the event here: https://bit.ly/19nzUek ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.06.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, August 6, 2013) – Today marks the 48th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act becoming law. Recently, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a 5-4 decision that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act was unconstitutional. Section 4 established the formula used to determine which states must receive preclearance from the federal government before changing its voting laws. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the continued need to secure equal voting protection for all Americans: “For 48 years, the Voting Rights Act has protected minorities’ right to vote. However, many people, including the U.S. Supreme Court Justices that turned down Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act, assert that our country has changed, and that the Voting Rights Act is no longer needed. Although voter intimidation today may not be as blatant as poll taxes or literacy tests, it still exists in more devious forms, such as burdensome voter ID laws that aim to oppress minorities. A prime example for the need of the Voting Rights Act is Texas Attorney General Gregg Abbott’s swift decision to enforce voter ID laws immediately following the Supreme Court’s ruling. Texas has a long and detailed history of voter suppression, and Attorney General Abbott is continuing down the same path. He is an elected official that should be looking out for all Texans, but his recent decisions indicate that minorities are not included. The minority population does not only include African Americans and Hispanics, but also the elderly and those that live in the most rural parts of the country. The Voting Rights Act will remain relevant and necessary, as it was in 1965, until all American’s are able to cast their ballots without fear of suppression.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.01.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, August 1, 2013) – Today, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced that the City of Dallas would receive $7.9 million in federal funding for the Dallas Love Field Airport. The grant will provide funds to the airport to rehabilitate existing apron pavement, or the area where aircrafts are parked, loaded and unloaded.“I would like to congratulate Dallas Love Field Airport on receiving this grant,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It’s important that we continue to improve our nation’s infrastructure, and I know these funds will be used to ensure necessary renovations take place to keep the airport up-to-date.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
08.01.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, August 1, 2013) – On Wednesday, U.S. Reps. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30), Janice Schakowsky (Ill.-09), Mike Honda (CA-17), and Niki Tsongas (MA-03) re-introduced the Women, Peace and Security Act. The bill promotes the active participation of women in all aspects of conflict prevention and resolution; integrates the interests of affected women into conflict-prevention strategies; promotes women’s physical safety and economic security; and ensures that women have access to aid distribution services.“The Women, Peace and Security Act is an essential component in our efforts to continue to provide women with peace and security around the world,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The burden of peacemaking and peace building must be a shared responsibility by both men and women, and I urge my colleagues to sign on to this important legislation.”“Women have a critical role to play in building peace. This week, as Israeli and Palestinian envoys meet to begin the process of forging a peace agreement, Israel has sent a woman as chief negotiator,” said Congresswoman Schakowsky. “This legislation promotes the active participation of women in the process of conflict resolution, ensuring that their voices are heard and their concerns addressed in the process of reaching a peace deal.”“I applaud President Obama for his leadership in establishing a U.S. National Action Plan (NAP) to include women’s voices and perspectives in decision-making processes in countries threatened by war, poor governance and violence,” said Congressman Honda. “It is now the responsibility of Congress to ensure the full implementation and delivery of NAP’s goals so that women are equitable partners in all aspects of peace building and conflict prevention. Amplifying women’s voices and perspectives and ensuring their place at the table are imperatives to achieving long-lasting global peace and security.”“Time after time studies have demonstrated that gains for women have a direct positive effect on sustainable development, economic growth and ending violence,” said Congresswoman Tsongas. “In addition to being a moral issue, the investment in women and girls is a matter of security, for the international community and here on our own shores. It is time to amplify their voices so that justice, peace and equality can be heard the world over.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.30.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 30, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 48th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid becoming law: “Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize the 48th anniversary of Medicare and Medicaid. These programs provide an essential safety net for seniors, people with disabilities, and vulnerable children and families.Before Medicare was enacted on this day in 1965, half of all seniors were uninsured. Today, forty-two million seniors and nine million people with disabilities receive health care through Medicare. Sixty-seven million Americans also rely on Medicaid, including six million seniors and one million nursing home residents.On this notable anniversary, we must consider not only how to preserve, but also how to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid well into the future. The Affordable Care Act helps support Medicare by making key preventive services available to consumers with no out-of-pocket costs, by eliminating fraud and improving efficiency, and by saving seniors an average of $18,000 in drug costs over the next decade.I am confident that Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Care Act will continue to provide quality, affordable health care for Americans who need it well into the future. I will be working hard in Congress to make sure of it.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, July 19, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced a bill (H.R. 2757) that would repeal the exclusion from Medicaid of services for patients in an institution for mental diseases (IMD). IMDs are defined as inpatient facilities of more than 16 beds whose patient roster is over 51% people with severe mental illness.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “Many Americans rely on Medicaid, and by repealing this IMD exclusion, we can help more Americans receive the healthcare they need. There isn’t a need for this exclusion because there has been a decline in large psychiatric hospitals and Medicaid currently permits the treatment of children, adolescents, and seniors with severe mental illness in IMDS. The current law is discriminatory and leaves many citizens with severe mental illnesses without access to healthcare.”In the 1960s, federal policy excluded IMDs from Medicaid reimbursement to prevent states and counties from shifting responsibility for caring for this population to the federal government. Currently, Medicaid payments are prohibited for IMDs with a population between the ages of 22 and 64.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.19.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, July 19, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announces a new analysis that shows that her constituents are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. This analysis comes on the heels of the 38th vote by Republicans in the House of Representatives to repeal the protections and reforms of the health care law.“Over the past three years, my constituents have already been seeing lower costs and better coverage,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “Instead of working together to ensure there is a smooth implementation process of the Affordable Care Act, House Republicans are continuing their efforts to repeal and undermine the law.”The new analysis shows that the health care law has already provided the following benefits to my constituents:Coverage for 10,100 additional young adults. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. Because of this provision, 10,100 young adults in my congressional district have already gained health care coverage.Lower drug costs for 3,900 seniors. The health care law is providing major savings in drug costs for seniors in the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, 3,900 seniors in my congressional district have received prescription drug discounts worth $5.6 million, an average discount of $620 per person in 2011, $720 in 2012, and $770 thus far in 2013.Free preventive services for 77,000 seniors. Since 2011, the health care law provides free Medicare coverage of preventive services, such as mammograms and colonoscopies. As a result, 77,000 seniors in my congressional district are now eligible for Medicare preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance or deductible. Free preventive services for 124,000 individuals in private plans. Since September 2010, the health care law also provides, for those enrolled in most private plans, free coverage of preventive services. As a result, 124,000 individuals in private plans – including 26,000 children and 54,000 women – now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductible.Savings in premiums for 113,000 individuals. 113,000 individuals in the district have saved on their premiums due to ACA provisions that prevent insurers from spending more than 20% of their premiums on profits and administrative overhead. Because of these protections, over 31,800 consumers in the district received approximately $4.5 million in insurance company rebates in 2012 and 2011 – an average rebate of $95 per family in 2012 and $187 per family in 2011. Protection for up to 48,000 children with pre-existing conditions. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from denying coverage to children for having a pre-existing health condition. Because of this provision, up to 48,000 children with pre-existing conditions in my congressional district are being protected from denial of coverage. Elimination of lifetime limits on coverage for 150,000 residents. Since September 2010, the health care law has prohibited insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. As a result, in my congressional district, 150,000 individuals no longer have a lifetime limit imposed on their coverage, and beginning in 2014, will not face an annual limit on coverage. Access to quality, affordable coverage for 204,000 uninsured individuals. Beginning in 2014, millions of uninsured Americans will gain access to quality, affordable health coverage, through the new Marketplaces and the expansion of Medicaid, under the health care law. In my district, 23,000 individuals who lack health insurance will have access to quality, affordable coverage without fear of discrimination or higher rates because of a preexisting health condition.
07.17.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, July 17, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he review a proposed strategy to support women’s rights in Afghanistan. The letter asks the President to work with Congress to further develop and implement this plan.“As the United States prepares to draw down troops in Afghanistan, we must send a clear message to the Afghan government that we are serious about promoting women’s rights,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In recent years, the U.S. has made significant progress in protecting women’s rights in Afghanistan. Implementing a strategic plan to support the rights of women and girls in the future will ensure that this progress is not undone.”In the letter, Congresswoman Johnson highlights a strategic plan prepared by Human Rights Watch. The plan will help ensure that international pressure on Afghanistan to promote women’s rights will continue after the U.S. military’s drawdown of forces.The letter has 11 cosponsors. View a copy of the letter and the cosponsors here. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.10.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, July 10, 2013) – Today, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that three community health centers in Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s congressional district will receive grants to enroll uninsured Americans in new health coverage options made available by the Affordable Care Act. The Martin Luther King Jr. Family Clinic Inc. will receive $92,352, Mission East Dallas will receive $70,352, and Parkland Health & Hospital System will receive $147,924.“My sincere congratulations go out to each community health center in my district that will receive a grant,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As the Administration continues to implement the Affordable Care Act, I know these funds will assist health centers in their efforts to ensure that all Americans have access to health insurance.”HHS announced funding for these health centers in the 30th Congressional District of Texas in conjunction with the $150 million in grants awarded nationally to 1,159 other community health centers. The state of Texas will receive $9,907,738 in grant funding to help consumers understand their coverage options in the new Health Insurance Marketplace. The funding will also be used to help individuals determine their eligibility for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program; learn about the financial assistance they may receive; and enroll in new affordable health coverage options. In Texas, 67 health centers operating 388 sites served 1,085,199 patients last year, 51 percent of whom were uninsured. With these funds, the awardees expect to hire 193 additional workers to assist 369,195 Texans with enrollment into affordable health insurance coverage. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.09.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 9, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and other Members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) met with President Barack Obama about implementation of the Affordable Care Act, voting rights, economic issues, and immigration reform at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building. Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after the meeting:“Today’s meeting allowed us the opportunity to voice our opinions and really have a productive dialogue with the President. During the meeting, I emphasized the importance of making higher education more accessible by making student loans more affordable. The jobs of the present and future are in the fields of science, engineering, and math. We must encourage our students to pursue these fields, but these are degrees that take 4 to 5 years to complete. In order for our country to remain competitive, we must ensure the burden of student loans does not deter these students from pursuing bachelors and advanced degrees in these important fields that will help secure our Nation’s economic future. In light of the recent Supreme Court’s decision on the Voting Rights Act, I also stressed the need for all American citizens to have their right to vote protected. In my home state of Texas, Attorney General Gregg Abbott has already moved forward with voter id laws that the federal government previously blocked under section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. I was pleased to hear that the President is committed to working with the CBC to ensure we end discriminatory voting laws around the country, and protect everyone’s right to vote.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.09.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 9, 2013) – Yesterday evening, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced a resolution in honor of the commencement of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, in conjunction with Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-5) and Congressman André Carson (IN-7). The resolution, H.Res. 289, recognizes Ramadan and commends Muslims in the United States and throughout the world for their faith. Ramadan began last night at sunset and will end on August 6th. For many Muslim Americans and Muslims around the world, Ramadan is a time of heightened spiritual awareness, family bonding, communal service and worship, and self-renewal.Congresswoman Johnson said, “We are blessed to live in a Nation that protects the right to religious freedom, embraces religious diversity, and promotes interfaith understanding. Muslim American communities contribute tremendously to the vibrancy of American society and culture. I strongly believe that the American ideals of diversity, unity, and democracy are reaffirmed and strengthened by the everyday contributions of Muslim Americans.”Congressman Ellison said, "Ramadan is a time for spiritual renewal, charity and family bonding. I hope it will also be an opportunity for greater interfaith understanding. People should use this special time to better get to know their friends and neighbors who are celebrating Ramadan this month. Ramadan Kareem to all."Congressman Carson said, “For Muslims all over the world, Ramadan is an important time of reflection, charity, prayer and fasting. We refocus our attention to strengthening the bonds of family and friendship and living with purpose and conviction. But more than that, it is also a time to recognize our collective journey and to reinvigorate our work to make our cities, states, and nations stronger and more responsive to the needs of their people.”The resolution currently has 13 original and 2 additional co-sponsors. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.08.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, July 8, 2013) – After serving 13 years, Texas Governor Rick Perry announced he will not seek another term. Perry stated he will serve out his term through January 2015. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to this decision:“As the longest serving Texas Governor, Rick Perry has finally realized his time has come to an end. I have known Governor Perry for a long time, and over the years his views have become more extreme. He refuses to implement solutions that will improve the lives of many Texans. I strongly believe the majority of Texans are able to say they are happy Governor Perry has decided to vacate his position, and they look forward to real change in the near future. The Governor’s partisan politics have caused more harm than good, and I am ready to see a new Governor who cares about the people and is actively working to ensure the well-being of all Texans.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.02.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 2, 2013) – Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that the Community Council of Greater Dallas will receive funding from the HHS Connecting Kids to Coverage Outreach and Enrollment Grants. The Community Council of Greater Dallas will receive $989,357 to continue efforts to reach out, enroll, and retain eligible children in Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP).“I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to the Community Council of Greater Dallas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased to see these funds being used to support children’s health insurance outreach in Dallas, and this grant will help ensure that Dallas children have access to the health care they need.”HHS announced funding for the Community Council of Greater Dallas as part of $32 million in grants awarded nationally. Funded by the Affordable Care Act, the HHS grants announced today were awarded to 41 state agencies, community health centers, and non-profits in 22 states. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.02.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 2, 2013) – On Monday, July 1, 2013, former Congressman William H. Gray III passed away in London. Congressman Gray was the first African American to serve as the House Majority Whip and as the Chair of the House Budget Committee. Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement: “I am deeply saddened by the loss of a great friend and mentor. Congressman Gray tirelessly served the people of Philadelphia and this Nation with the utmost passion and commitment. During his tenure in Congress, he spoke out on the apartheid in South Africa, enhanced the infrastructure in Philadelphia, and advocated on behalf of the middle class and under-served communities. He was an exceptional leader whose legacy will forever remain in our hearts and minds. My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Andrea, his three sons, and his family and friends as they mourn the loss of their loved one.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
07.01.2013	Dallas, TX – (Monday, July 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after 19 firefighters lost their lives battling a wildfire near Yarnell, Arizona:“My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the 19 firefighters, who lost their lives in the line of duty. We are all truly appreciative of the efforts of these brave heroes, as they worked tirelessly to keep their community safe.Today, let us remember all the first responders that willingly serve and protect their respective communities. I stand ready to assist and provide support to state and local officials, as they continue to try and contain the Yarnell fire. Let us all work together to provide any additional assistance to our neighbors in need, as they recover from this tragedy.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.26.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, June 26, 2013) – Today, the United States Supreme Court ruled on United States v Perry. In a 5-4 decision, the Court ruled that Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) is unconstitutional because it violated equal protections and due process principles applicable to the federal government. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Court’s ruling:“The Supreme Court’s decision to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act is a monumental victory for marriage equality in this country. As we celebrate LGBT Pride Month, the Court’s decision is a timely affirmation of our commitment to preserve equal rights for all Americans. Discrimination in all of its forms is still inequality, and I am proud that the highest court in our land has taken a strong stance in favor of equal rights for all Americans.I was proud to join with 211 of my House and Senate colleagues to file an amicus brief, urging the Court to uphold the lower court’s ruling in U.S. v. Edith Schlain Windsor that DOMA is unconstitutional. With this landmark decision, same-sex couples will now have access to more than 1,100 federal laws, programs, and benefits that were traditionally afforded only to opposite-sex couples. Today’s decision moves our country forward as we continue to fight for equal rights for all American citizens. ” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.25.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, June 25, 2013) – Today, the United States Supreme Court ruled on Shelby County v. Holder. In a 5-4 decision, the Court ruled that Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was unconstitutional. Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act established a formula to determine which states must receive preclearance from the federal government before changing its voting laws. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in response to the Court’s ruling: “Today, the Supreme Court dealt a devastating blow to those who have fought to restore the integrity of the electoral process. The Court’s decision will turn back decades of sacrifice by civil rights leaders and legislators who have continuously fought to preserve equal voting rights for minorities. Despite much progress, there is still a mountain of evidence to suggest that present-day disenfranchisement and suppressive tactics are still being used at polling places. During the 2012 election cycle, many states enacted oppressive voting laws that aimed to alienate, intimidate, and ultimately discourage minorities from exercising their right to cast their ballots at the polls. In the state of Texas, the strictest voter ID laws in the country were struck down because of the protection under the Voting Rights Act.Now is the time for Congress to put aside partisan politics, and truly work in a bipartisan manner to ensure we are protecting all American citizens’ voting rights. As we move forward, I will continue to work with my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to develop an updated formula for determining which states must seek preclearance. We must not delay on something so crucial as protecting the inalienable American right to vote.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.25.2013	Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, June 24, 2013) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and the Dallas Coalition for Hunger Solutions hosted the Dallas 2013 Summer Meals Kick-off Event at the Casa Grande Village Apartments. During the summer, many children do not have access to their schools’ free breakfast and lunch programs. This event was held to publicize an effort by Dallas-area organizations to combat childhood hunger while students are out of school. Congresswoman Johnson and the Dallas Coalition also teamed up with CitySquare, PepsiCo Food for Good, the Texas Hunger Initiative, United Way, and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to bring this event to the community. The kick-off featured games, activities, information for parents on how to receive the summer meals, and guest speakers.North Texas families can access these free summer meals by visiting www.summerfood.org or calling 211, or texting FOODTX to 877-877.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.20.2013	Congresswoman Johnson and author Khaled Hosseini spoke to the crowd about the plight of refugees worldwide Washington, DC – (Thursday, June 20, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, in conjunction with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), hosted an event in honor of World Refugee Day. The event featured international best-selling author and UNHCR Goodwill Envoy Khaled Hosseini, and Anne Richard, the Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration.“We can talk about Syria, the Congo, Bosnia, Kosovo, Iraq, and many other countries that have to deal with war,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “So it’s very important that we always pause and remember the refugees that have joined our country seeking safety and peace.”World Refugee Day was established by the United Nations in order to maintain and intensify ongoing efforts to resolve world conflicts and promote peace and security so that refugees can safely return home to their families.UNHCR Goodwill Envoy Hosseini thanked everyone for their ongoing commitment to Afghanistan and said, “It’s my dream that Afghanistan will become a viable self-sustained free country free from violence and from upheaval, and where women are educated and rising in the ranks in both business and politics.”With over 43 million displaced refugees, UNHCR and other worldwide humanitarian organizations identify and help meet basic and life-sustaining needs.Assistant Secretary of State Anne Richard said, “I want to thank all of you, and especially our Members of Congress and staff, for the role you play in appropriating funding that helps us save lives overseas and bring refugees to the United States to restart their lives.”The event was attended by Ranking Member on the House Foreign Affairs Committee Eliot Engel, Capitol Hill staffers, and members of non-governmental organizations. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.15.2013	Washington, DC – (Saturday, June 15, 2013) – In 2006, the United Nations designated June 15 as World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, a day aimed at bringing global attention to the physical, emotional, and financial abuse of elders. This day is also a time to contemplate the challenges the aging population face on a daily basis, and to bring together different entities to foster ideas on how to stop abuse of those in the elder community.“On this day, we must all take the time to reflect on the contributions and sacrifices these citizens have made to our Nation, and to ensure that they are protected from abuse,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. She continued, “In my district of Dallas, Texas, a large portion of its occupants are elders, and I have always been a staunch advocate for their protection. Acts of abuse against our senior citizens is unconscionable, and we must all do our part to identify ways to reduce incidents of abuse and neglect. I encourage everyone to raise awareness of the mistreatment of elders, and make a commitment to protect the older Americans of this country.”Millions of older Americans are neglected, abused, or exploited each year, with an estimated 84 percent of cases going unreported. The World Health Organization data suggests that four to six percent of the elderly suffer from some form of abuse, but with a lack of comprehensive data collection, the numbers could be much higher. Estimates indicate that by 2050, the global population of people above the age of 60 will exceed the number of younger people ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.10.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, June 10, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement commemorating the 50th Anniversary of the Equal Pay Act:“Fifty years ago today, President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963 into law. The Act has been instrumental in advancing women’s right to equal pay in the workplace, but our work is not over.According to a new report from the American Association of University Women, women in Texas earned just 82 cents for every dollar earned by men. That is why we need the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would update and strengthen the Equal Pay Act. The Paycheck Fairness Act would provide remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for equal work, and it would protect employees who share salary information with their colleagues.This legislation is a crucial next step in our efforts to combat wage disparities. I urge my Republican colleagues to bring this bill to floor, so we can finally achieve equality in pay for American women.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.10.2013	Representatives from the U.S. Small Business Administration spoke to the crowd about assistance the SBA can offer business owners.Dallas, TX – (Monday, June 10, 2013) – This past Friday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, joined with the Small Business Administration, hosted the second forum, in her newly launched Small Business Series. The purpose of this forum was to promote voluntary efforts in strengthening the role of women business owners within the community, and provide education, financial or managerial assistance to enhance women’s business ownership.“I believe that small businesses are the backbone of America’s economy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These enterprises will be a key factor in strengthening our economy and creating jobs.”The panel discussion took place at the Bill J. Priest Center for Economic Development, and attendees were welcomed by Yolanda Olivarez, U.S. Small Business Administration Regional Administrator. Regional Administrator Olivarez thanked Congresswoman Johnson for her strong support of the small business community, and outlined agency programs and the importance of the Small Business Administration’s 3 Cs-Counseling, Contracting, and Capital.“Here in Dallas, the U.S. Small Business Administration has loaned more than $75 million to women owned businesses and I attribute that to strong initiatives like these programs that connect communities with resources,” said Administrator Olivarez. She continued, “I am honored to be a champion of what you do.”The panelists included: Melea Crouse, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers; Margo Posey, Dallas/Fort Worth Minority Supplier Development Council; Charles Waldrop, SBDC Specialty Center for Government Contracting; Indria E. Hollingsworth, Parkland Health and Hospital System; Jermaine A. Hunt, City of Dallas; James Kahler, First United Bank.Congresswoman Johnson’s Small Business Series is a program designed to provide current and aspiring small business owners the educational and operational resources necessary for managing successful small businesses. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
06.04.2013	Congresswoman Johnson addresses the audience and panel members that Skyped in from Israel Washington, DC – (Tuesday, June 4, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a panel discussion entitled, “Moving Forward: Addressing the Challenges in Israeli/Palestinian Peace”. The purpose of the discussion was to understand the challenges those on both sides of the conflict face, as well as to advocate for peace and the peaceful negotiation of conflict.“After seeing the remnants of war, I know that war is not the answer,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Women must be included in peace negotiations, and while progress is difficult, we all must continue to do our part in the process.”The panel discussion included : Salwa Duaibis, Women’s Centre for Legal Aid Counseling; Lior Finkel, The Peace NGO Forum; Tania Hary, Gisha; and Betty Herschman, Ir Amim.Attendees included Members of Congress, Capitol Hill staffers, and non-governmental agencies. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.28.2013	Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 27, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day:“Each year on Memorial Day, we pause to honor the sacrifices of the brave men and women in our Nation’s Armed Forces, who have fought and died to protect our country. I deeply respect our servicemen and women for their devotion to this country and their dedication to defending our freedom. On this day and every day, we must recommit to addressing the challenges that our military families face. As a nation, we must ensure that all veterans receive the benefits they have earned, from healthcare to educational assistance and job training services.This Memorial Day, I ask that we all take the time to thank our veterans and active duty members for their unwavering service to this great country.”Watch Congresswoman Johnson’s video message to our veterans here: https://youtu.be/Lni-MkiWEcg ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.23.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, May 23, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the newly formed bipartisan Texas Maritime Caucus:“This caucus is an opportunity to examine and strengthen the economic impact that Texas has on the national economy. Maritime transportation is an integral part of the Texas economy, and Texas is the artery through which commerce flows throughout the U.S. I believe this caucus will allow my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to foster and generate ideas on how to expand the reach of our ports and waterways. As the Congress turns its attention to authorization of the Water Resources Development Act, it is important to have a bipartisan effort to ensure our ports are part of the national conversation.” Congresswoman Johnson and Congressman Blake Farenthold are the founding co-chairs of the caucus. Members of the caucus include: Reps. Carter, Conaway, Culberson, Flores, Gene Green, Hinojosa, Jackson Lee, McCaul, Olson, Vela, Weber, and Williams.The bipartisan caucus will work to: Educate Congressional members and staff on how ports and waterways affect their districts. Highlight how Texas ports and waterways facilitate goods movement throughout the country.Support a robust Water Resources Development Act that includes provisions to:Protect and spend down the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund (HMTF) for its intended purpose. Create a firewall for the fund and require use of annual receipts.Streamline both feasibility studies and projects. Provisions should mirror the streamlining changes included in the last surface transportation reauthorization bill, MAP-21. Streamline the Corps of Engineer’s processes.Dredge and maintain the Gulf Intracoastal Waterway (GIWW) to its authorized depth of 12 feet. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.22.2013	Congressional Caucus on Homelessness co-chair Eddie Bernice Johnson speaks on the plight of the homeless. Washington, DC – (Wednesday, May 22, 2013) – The Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, in conjunction with the National Center on Family Homelessness, hosted a congressional briefing entitled “Homelessness in America: Experiences & Solutions in the 113th Congress.” Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson serves as co-chair and co-founder of the Caucus. “I have worked extensively with national organizations and federal agencies in this field and what we have found is that the biggest hurdle to combating this issue is raising awareness of homelessness in our communities, and poor access to consistent and reliable data,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The purpose of the briefing was to educate members of Congress and their staff on the issues currently facing our homeless population and increase awareness among stakeholders.“There are many reasons people become homeless. Though lack of affordable housing and poverty are the leading causes, other factors cluster together, such as domestic violence, trauma, depression, and low wages,” said Dr. Carmela DeCandia, Director of The National Center on Family Homelessness. “A combination of housing and services are needed to end homelessness for youth, families, individuals, and veterans.”In an effort to address the lack of reliable data, Congresswoman Johnson has introduced H.R. 1136, the Violence Against the Homeless Accountability Act. This legislation would authorize the comprehensive collection of information on attacks against homeless individuals.The panelists included: Carmela J. DeCandia, Psy.D., Director of the National Center on Family Homelessness; Brian Carome, Executive Director for Street Sense; Maria Foscarinis, Founder and Executive Director of the National Law Center on Homelessness and Poverty; and Devin Johnson, a high school student from Prince George’s County, Maryland. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.20.2013	High school students from across the Dallas area came to learn more about the opportunities in the service academies. Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 20, 2013) – On Saturday, May 18, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 21st Annual Military Academy Day at Duncanville High School. The program provides high school students with the opportunity to hear from representatives from the armed service academies.“As a Nation, we must meet the challenges of today and prepare for the future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We look to you and future generations to work hard and engage in your communities. You are our country’s future leaders.”Beverly D. Johnson, a West Point alumni, and Jae Yu, an Air Force alumni, both offered remarks on life after the academy and how to be the ideal candidate. Five students were honored for their appointment to attend U.S. Service Academies this fall.Over 200 Dallas area high school students were in attendance, along with Dallas ISD superintendent, Mike Miles, and Duncanville ISD superintendent Dr. Alfred Ray. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.13.2013	Congresswoman Johnson pictured with winner Crystal Hernandez and the winning art piece: After PrismsDallas, TX – (Monday, May 13, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that Crystal Hernandez, a junior at Skyline High School, was selected as the winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition for the 30th Congressional District. This year’s art competition was held on Friday, May 10th, at the Morton H.Meyerson Symphony Center. Art students from the Dallas area had their submissions critiqued by a panel of judges from area colleges and the South Dallas Cultural Center.The annual art competition offers the opportunity for one high school student from each Congressional district to have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for the following year. Ms. Hernandez will have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. and join other winners from across the country for a special ceremony to recognize their work. Ms. Hernandez’s winning piece was entitled: After Prisms.Congresswoman Johnson thanked the artists and their instructors for their dedication, and praised the quality of the students’ work. “I am very proud of each of you,” she said. “Your skills and determination are commendable.”Schools that participated in this year’s competition included A. Maceo Smith, Bishop Dunne, Booker T. Washington, Canterbury Episcopal, Cedar Hill, Carter, Lancaster, Molina, Skyline, South Grand Prairie, and Townview Center. “All of us in the high school art community are grateful to Congresswoman Johnson for allowing our students to display their talent,” said Carter High School fine arts instructor Curtis Ferguson, whose students participated in the competition.“This is an inspiring program,” he said. “Knowing that a Member of the Congress has taken an interest in our arts education and young artists is encouraging, and inspires students and faculty alike.”See and download pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/14p1UuQ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.13.2013	Congresswoman Johnson spoke about the strong foundation she received from the Waco school system. Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 13, 2013) – On Friday, May 10th, the city of Waco and the Waco Independent School District honored Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson as one of its most outstanding citizens who attended Waco public schools.Members of the Waco business community, school administrators, teachers and residents presented Congresswoman Johnson with a plaque acknowledging her as a “distinguished alumni” of the school system at a luncheon attended by approximately two hundred people.Congresswoman Johnson graduated from Moore High School with honors. After graduating, she left Waco to study nursing at St. Mary’s College in South Bend, Indiana.“I had a strong academic foundation at Moore,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “My teachers prepared me for the future, and the lessons I learned helped me excel in my professional career.” Bonny Cain, the superintendent of Waco ISD, said “We are honored to recognize Congresswoman Johnson for her many achievements. We are proud that she is a graduate of Waco ISD.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.06.2013	Congresswoman Johnson at the 13th annual “A World of Women for World Peace” conference in Dallas, TX Dallas, TX – (Monday, May 6, 2013) – On May 4, 2013, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her 13th annual "A World of Women for World Peace" conference at the Federal Reserve of Dallas. "I began my initiative, A World of Women for World Peace, to bring a greater visibility to the role of women who are victims of war and aggression," said Congresswoman Johnson. "It is my hope that we continue this dialogue to promote peace around the world."One of the keynote speakers, Ms. Nazanin Bonadi, spoke about her work with Amnesty International and the peaceful resolution of conflict. "If we can protect and respect the basic human rights that everyone of us is born with – this is Amnesty's mission – then ultimately we can help create a more just and peaceful world," said Ms. Boniadi.Dr. Hind Jarrah spoke on the Muslim community and how women play an integral part in peaceful negotiations. "Women are marvelous with working with compassion and always seeking a common ground," Dr. Jarrah noted.Internationally renowned Israeli activist Ronny Edry spoke on his campaign to promote peace between Israelis and Iranians. "We are using graphic design to change the way the world perceives us," said Mr. Edry.The conference hosted over 200 local and international peace activists along with representatives from local government.Panelists included Nazanin Boniadi, Iranian-American actress and official spokesperson of Amnesty International USA; Ronny Edry, Israeli Peace Activist, and Dr. Hind Jarrah, Executive Director of the Texas Muslim Women's Foundation. The panel was moderated by Zara Tariq of the Dallas Peace Center.See and download pictures from the conference here: https://on.fb.me/13nTHHr Video of the entire conference here: ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a Ranking member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.03.2013	Congresswoman Johnson and members of the Dallas City Council at the streetcar groundbreaking ceremony Dallas, TX – (Friday, May 3, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson participated in the groundbreaking of the Union Station to Oak Cliff Streetcar project. The Streetcar project is a result of a $23 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant awarded by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) in 2010. “I worked diligently to get federal funding for this project, but all of you made this happen.” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Dallas Union Station to Oak Cliff Streetcar project is a great example of everyone coming together to pursue a multi-modal transportation system in North Texas,” said Congresswoman Johnson.This project was a collaborative effort between the City of Dallas, North Central Texas Council of Governments, Dallas Area Rapid Transit, and the FTA. The streetcar track is approximately 1.6 mile, extending from near Union Station in downtown Dallas to the Colorado Boulevard and Beckley Avenue intersection in Oak Cliff. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
05.02.2013	Congresswoman Johnson and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi are led on a tour by some of the students of theIrma Lerma Rangel SchoolDallas, TX – (Thursday, May 2, 2013) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi visited the Irma Lerma Rangel Young Women’s Leadership School.The Rangel School is the first all-girls public school in Texas for young ladies in grades six through 12 with a curriculum that emphasizes mathematics, science, and technology. It was recently rated by the US News & World Report as the 14th Best High School in the Nation, and the 2nd in TexasLeader Pelosi and Congresswoman Johnson toured both the high school and middle school sections of the campus. They visited the science laboratory where they spoke with some of the young women in the class. Afterwards, Congresswoman Johnson and Leader Pelosi addressed the young women students in the auditorium. Congresswoman Johnson introduced Leader Pelosi with a few remarks.“In 2007, Leader Pelosi broke a marble sealing by becoming the first woman to serve as Speaker of the House,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Her leadership is outstanding and she continues to work hard to bring more women to Congress.”Eden Phillips, a sophomore at the school, moderated a discussion with Leader Pelosi. Leader Pelosi regarded Congresswoman Johnson as a leader in Congress on STEM issues, followed by advice for young women pursing public office.“Be yourself! Know your power and know that you can make a tremendous difference,” said Leader Pelosi. “The best path for you is your own individual path.”Dallas Independent School District Superintendent Mike Miles was in attendance, as well as a number of women’s organizations, including The Links, Inc.; Dallas Women’s Foundation, and the Dallas Summit.View and download pictures from the event here:https://bit.ly/15bXjAI ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.23.2013	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, April 23, 2013) – Today, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) announced that Big Thought Arts Education and the Nasher Sculpture Center Museum will receive grants as part of NEA’s second major round of arts funding in FY2013. Big Thought Arts Education will receive $37,000 to support professional development for teaching artists, and the Nasher Sculpture Center Museum will receive $60,000 to support Nasher XChange: 10 Years, 10 Artists, 10 Sites: Bringing Dallas Together, a public art installation.“I’m pleased to see these funds used to continue to promote the arts in the Dallas area, and develop young artists,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These grants will help support projects in the district and continue to spur interest in the arts.”Over $26 million, including nearly $4 million in arts education projects, will be awarded in this round of grants. In total, more than 800 organizations in 46 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico will receive funding.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.18.2013	Dallas, TX – (Thursday, April 18, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today concerning the explosion at the fertilizer plant in West, Texas: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of West, and with the families of the victims of this explosion. As we continue to monitor the situation, we pray for the health and recovery of those injured, and for the first responders who arrived on the scene to administer aid to those wounded. If there is anything I can do to assist in the recovery efforts surrounding this tragedy, my office stands ready to respond in whatever capacity needed.” For information on admitted patients to Hillcrest Baptist Medical Center, (254) 202-1100. For inquiries about patients: Providence Health Center (254) 761-7200; Scott & White, (888) 394-4947. For information on victims and survivors (254) 826-4115.For anyone needing a place to stay: First Baptist Church of Lott (254) 829-2321; Aquilla ISD; Blair’s Cove Apartments (254) 447-0810; Latham Springs Baptist Camp; Abbott gym; Valley Mills Nursing Home (for nursing home residents) (254) 932-6288; First Baptist Church of Gholson; Gholson ISD; Brazos Meadows Baptist Church; Antioch Community Church; Alliance Auto Auction; Penelope School; Central United Methodist Church off Bagby Avenue; American Legion Post 121 in Elm Mott; Sykora Family Ford; and Town Hall Estates. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.12.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, April 12, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the National Financial Literacy Act of 2013. The bill would require that federal financial supervisory agencies establish minimum standards for community-based financial literacy programs in order to be eligible for consideration as a qualified community-based financial literacy program. The bill would also allow a tax credit to small businesses for 35% of the expenses paid or incurred for providing qualified continuing financial education to their employees.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “Financial literacy is essential to preserving the economic well being of individuals and families. I am introducing this legislation in order promote increased understanding and awareness of the consequences of financial decision making. By increasing financial literacy, we contribute to economic stability in the U.S. and provide the needed tools for the middle class to thrive.”April is designated as Financial Literacy Month. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.11.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, April 11, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 5th Annual Bosnian Women’s Day in conjunction with the Advisory Council for Bosnia and Herzegovina.“I have had the privilege of traveling to Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Bosnian War, and I realized that with women involved, peace could be achieved,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I know what it takes to bring change, and the road is long and arduous, but you must continue to move forward.”The keynote speaker was the Ambassador of Bosnian and Herzegovina to the United States Jadranka Negodic. Ambassador Negodic spoke of her challenges of ensuring women have a seat at the table during peace negotiations.Ambassador Negodic noted, “We must encourage women’s ambitions and help them advance to the next stage. Young Bosnian women must be the change they want to see. You are the best advocates for your country.”Diana Sehic, President of Rights for All, a non-governmental organization based in Sarajevo, Bosnia, spoke on her efforts to encourage women to pursue political office.“Bosnia and Herzegovina has seen improvement, but we still need support from the international community,” said Ms. Sehic.The Advisory Council for Bosnia and Herzegovina is an independent, non-profit organization dedicated to advancing the interests of Bosnian Americans and works to improve relations between the United States and Bosnia and Herzegovina.See pictures from the event here:https://on.fb.me/ZcG8d8See video of the event here:
04.10.2013	Congresswoman Johnson was presented the award by the CEO of the National Urban League , Marc Morial Washington, DC – (Wednesday, April 10, 2013) – Today, the National Urban League awarded Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson the “I Am Empowered” Award for Education. Congresswoman Johnson was recognized for her dedication and leadership, and for her commitment to encouraging students to pursue STEM education. “It’s an honor to receive this award from the National Urban League,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “For more than a century, the National Urban League has worked tirelessly in their efforts to promote equality and empowerment for all Americans. I am truly honored to be among such extraordinary leaders and civil rights activists. ”Founded in 1910, the National Urban League is a civil rights organization dedicated to economic empowerment in order to elevate the standard of living in historically underserved urban communities. The National Urban League spearheads efforts with its local affiliates through the development of programs, public policy research and advocacy. Today, the National Urban League has 95 affiliates serving 300 communities, in 35 states and the District of Columbia, providing direct services that impact and improve the lives of more than 2 million people nationwide.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.09.2013	Congresswoman Johnson spoke with panelists about ending the homeless veteran problem in DallasDallas, TX – (Tuesday, April 9, 2013) – Recently, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson launched her small business series to assist homeless veterans in the Dallas area. The purpose of the series is to inform homeless veterans about the Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) program and provide them with the tools they need to apply for assistance. “No veteran should ever come home from war and be homeless,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I have traveled all over the world and there is no place else that allows the freedoms and opportunities like the United States. We are afforded this luxury because of the sacrifice and skill of our men and women in uniform, and we should all be there for them when they return home.”The event took place on April 5,2013 at the Bill J. Priest Institute for Economic Development from 1:30 – 3:30 p.m. Veterans, veterans support organizations, and developers were in attendance.Welcoming remarks were given by Regenia Hawkins, Public Housing Director at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Panelists included David Storms, HUD Public Housing Division Director; Troy Broussard, Senior Vice President of the Dallas Housing Authority; Heloise Ferguson, VA – VISN 17 Homeless Coordinator with the VA North Texas Health Care System; Teresa House-Hatfield, Director of the VA Comprehensive Homeless Center and Domiciliary Care for Homeless Veterans at the VA North Texas Health Care System; Don Clemmons, Program Manager V.A. Per Diem Program with Union Gospel Mission; and Dennis Strickland, Homeless Recovery Manager with BRIDGE Dallas. The discussion was moderated by Bob W. Cook, Director of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Dallas.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.02.2013	Washington, DC – (April,2 , 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding President Obama’s new BRAIN initiative:“I applaud President Obama’s Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, which is designed to help researchers and scientists find innovative ways to treat, cure, and prevent brain disorders. As Ranking Member on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have championed investment in research and development to maintain our international leadership in medicine and technology.In my congressional district, the University of Texas at Dallas Center for Brain Health has been conducting cutting-edge research on the brain for over a decade. The scientific discoveries made by the Center for Brain Health have been transformative, and I look forward to greater federal support for this important line of research. The President’s major new initiative has the potential to transform our understanding of the human mind and take us leaps and bounds forward in our endeavor to treat veterans with traumatic brain injuries, children with autism, or the more than 5 million Americans who suffer from Alzheimer’s.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
04.01.2013	Washington, DC – (April 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the expansion of Medicaid in Texas:“I am very disappointed by Governor Rick Perry’s statement today that he will continue to reject Medicaid expansion in Texas. In refusing additional Medicaid funding, Gov. Perry is denying millions of Texans access to life-saving health insurance, a decision that would save taxpayers, hospitals, and local governments millions of dollars in costs spent caring for the uninsured. Medicaid expansion is particularly urgent for Texas, which is ranked first in the number of uninsured residents in the country.Medicaid expansion is expected to increase Texas’ economic output by $67.9 billion in the first four years, improve the public’s health by increasing access to preventive care, and, most importantly, save the lives of 8,400 Texans every single year. By opting out of the Medicaid expansion, Gov. Perry is forcing local governments and taxpayers to pay for his political opposition to the Affordable Care Act. I urge the Governor to stop playing petty politics, and make the economically sound decision to expand Medicaid. I remain open to working with the Governor, the Administration, and the Texas delegation in Congress to support a Medicaid expansion that will benefit all Texans.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
04.01.2013	Washington, DC – (April 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement:“I’m very pleased the City of Dallas will receive $11,750,000 through the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program. This funding will allow the City of Dallas to assist the Hamilton Atmos Limited Partnership to finance the rehabilitation of the Atmos Lofts, a mixed-use, mixed income residential development in the Dallas central business district. Through the Section 108 Program, we will continue our efforts to effectively expand access to affordable housing in the Dallas area.”During Phase II, the Partnership will convert three vacant office buildings into 123 rental housing units, and 9,500 square feet of ground floor retail and parking garage and ground level parking.City of Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said, “We want to thank the Department of Housing & Urban Development for understanding the vision and needs we have for our Downtown area. The Atmos project is a $30 million dollar investment which simply would not have been possible without HUD leveraging funds with the City of Dallas. We are excited to be able to provide the citizens of Dallas with new housing and retail opportunities in the Downtown Area. And, we are especially pleased to be able to repurpose the former Lone Star Gas building at 301 S. Harwood which had been vacant for a number of years.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.27.2013	Congresswoman Johnson encouraging students to be the next S.T.E.M. innovators Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, March 27, 2013) – Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, hosted her 10th Annual Math and Science Lecture Series at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center located in Dallas, Texas.“The students are the future, and the Nation is depending on them,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “In order to remain globally competitive, we must have more students interested in the STEM fields.”The University of Texas at Dallas created the Eddie Bernice Johnson Math and Science Lecture Series in honor of Congresswoman Johnson. Each year Dallas-area high school students are exposed to the best and brightest minds in mathematics and science. They are urged to seek training that will prepare them for career opportunities in those fields.This year the keynote speaker was Dr. Cynthia McIntyre, the Senior Vice President at the Council on Competitiveness. Dr. McIntyre spoke about her early experiences in STEM and about the conference she started for Black physics students.“Don’t limit yourself by not taking risks,” said Dr. McIntyre. “Take a risk and do the interesting thing. Take the opportunities and maximize them for your benefit.”Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center has received recognition at the state and national levels as one of America’s top high schools.See pictures from the event here: https://bit.ly/13xNqww ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.22.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, March 22, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced a new report from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which highlights the number of people in Texas that are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. March 23rd is the third anniversary of the enactment of the Affordable Care Act.“Millions of Texans, including many of my constituents, are already seeing lower health care costs and receiving better insurance coverage,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I will continue to oppose Republicans’ efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and work with my Democratic colleagues to ensure that this important law continues to be implemented effectively.” Congresswoman Johnson continued.The new report shows that the health care law has already provided: · No lifetime limit on health insurance coverage for 7,536,000 residents of Texas, including 2,771,000 women and 2,094,000 children. The health care law prohibits insurers from placing a lifetime limit on coverage. In the past, lifetime limits on coverage have forced some families to declare personal bankruptcy. · Lower drug costs for 206,304 seniors in Texas.The health care law makes prescription drug coverage for people with Medicare more affordable. It does this by gradually closing the gap in drug coverage known as the ‘donut hole.’ Because of this provision, in 2012 alone, 206,304 seniors in Texas saved over $140.2 million on their drugs – an average of $680 per senior. · Free key preventive services for 5,198,000 Texans. The law requires many insurance plans to provide coverage with no deductible or co-pay for a number of preventive health services like flu shots, annual wellness visits, mammograms, Pap smears, and colon cancer screenings. Because of this provision, 5,198,000 Texans now have access to these preventive services at no cost.· Coverage for 357,000 young adults in Texas, who would otherwise be uninsured. The health care law requires health insurers to permit parents to retain coverage for their children until their 26th birthday. As a result, 357,000 young adults in Texas have gained health insurance through their parents’ plan.· Rebates from insurance companies benefiting 1,516,721 consumers in Texas. Under the health care law, insurers must spend at least 80 percent of premiums on medical care and quality improvement – rather than on CEO pay, profits, and administrative costs. Insurance companies that fail to meet this standard must pay rebates to their customers. Last year, 1,516,721 consumers in Texas benefited from $166,975,840 in rebates from their insurance companies.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.21.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, March 21, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after passage of the Republican Budget for Fiscal Year 2014. “The Ryan-Republican budget does nothing to address the needs of the American people. Families all across this country are depending on us to work together to both create jobs and reduce the deficit. House Republicans have consistently refused to address the top priorities of the middle class, and they continue to produce these same failed policies that are not moving the country forward. The American people deserve better. Our budget needs to reflect the ideals and values of all American families and I will only support a plan that does just that.”The House passed the Ryan-Republican budget by a vote of 221-207. For the third year in a row, all House Democrats voted against the Ryan-Republican budget.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.15.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, March 15, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Congressional Black Caucus Alternative Budget for Fiscal Year 2014:“The Republican Members of Congress have produced a budget that would jeopardize seniors, families, and those most vulnerable. The CBC budget protects these interests while addressing the fiscal future of our country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We know that tough decisions must be made regarding the deficit, but we do not believe that cutting the services that families need the most is the solution.”The CBC Alternative Budget, Pro-Growth. Pro-People. Pro-America., would abolish the sequestration cuts, in addition to reducing the deficit. The CBC budget focuses on creating jobs, strengthening vital programs, increasing economic opportunity for poverty-stricken communities, and ensuring continued investment in education, workforce development, and infrastructure.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “In this budget we also propose additional funding for investments in science and technology. These investments are critical to the development of new technologies, innovations, and will ensure that America remains globally competitive. The impacts of sequestration on the Nation’s R&D enterprise will only be made worse if the Ryan Budget plan were enacted into law. Theadditional deep cuts to non-defense discretionary budgets proposed in the Ryan Budget would do severe and long-lasting damage to America’s ability to innovate and create the highly-skilled jobs of the future. The CBC believes that we can and should do better.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.15.2013	Congresswoman Johnson thanks the NNPA for honoring her with the Torch award Washington, DC – (Friday, March 15, 2013) –On March 14, 2013, the National Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation awarded Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson the Torch Award for Political Achievement. Congresswoman Johnson was recognized for her political accomplishments and demonstration of leadership in Congress on behalf of Black communities of America.“It’s an honor to receive this prestigious award from NNPA,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I applaud the efforts of the NNPA for their work in the press and I hope that together we can continue to advocate on behalf of the needs of our communities” said Congresswoman Johnson.The National Newspaper Publishers Association, also known as the Black Press of America, is a 69-year-old federation of more than 200 Black community newspapers from across the United States.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.13.2013	Congresswoman Johnson gives her opening remarks before the roundtable discussion begins. Washington, DC – (Wednesday, March 13, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a roundtable discussion on the U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security. The discussion was held in conjunction with Congressman Mike Honda (CA-17), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND), and the U.S. Civil Society Working Group on Women, Peace, and Security. The program focused on the role women play in peace building and conflict resolution, as well as the progress that has been made on the implementation of the U.S. National Action Plan.“The panelists here today are working diligently to provide women with peace and security around the world,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “Both men and women are integral components in this process. In pursuing these efforts, it is essential that we, as Members of Congress, utilize our roles to promote women’s leadership and ending conflicts through peaceful negotiation.”The National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security represents a government-wide effort to protect women and girls from gender-based violence, and to ensure women and girls have access to humanitarian assistance during crises and disasters.Susan Shaer, Executive Director for WAND, noted “WAND praises Congresswoman Johnson’s long-time commitment to advancing Women, Peace and Security on the political agenda. We are pleased to bring together high-level representatives from various agencies to discuss the full and effective implementation of the U.S. National Action Plan, and look forward to working closely with the Congresswoman to pass the WPS Act in the 113th Congress.”Panelists included: Sanam Anderlini, International Civil Society Action Network; Jamille Bigio, U.S. Department of State; Abigail E. Disney, producer of Pray the Devil Back to Hell; The Honorable Shinkai Karokhail, Member of the Afghan Parliament; Robert S. Kravinsky, U.S. Department of Defense; Carol Koppell, USAID Senior Coordinator for Gender and Equality and Women’s Empowerment; Susan Shaer, Executive Director for Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND); and Tanya Henderson, Public Policy Director for Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND). ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.13.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, March 13, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced the Violence Against the Homeless Accountability Act of 2013 (VAHA). VAHA includes bias-motivated attacks against homeless individuals as a category within the uniform crime statistics collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, for the purposes of hate crimes reporting.Current federal hate crimes reporting standards categorize hate crimes as a crime where a victim is selected based on his/her actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, gender, disability, or sexual orientation.“Before we can solve the problem, we must understand the problem,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This legislation is desperately needed if we are to send the message that homeless individuals are not out of sight and out of mind.”“As it stands today, we must rely on third-party organizations to track the severity and scope of attacks on our homeless. These organizations simply do not have the resources to collect complete data. VAHA would put the resources of the federal government behind the collection of reliable data on violent attacks against homeless individuals all across the country.”The Violence Against the Homeless Accountability Act of 2013 has gained the support of twelve original cosponsors, and is endorsed by the National Coalition for the Homeless. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.08.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, March 8, 2013) - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of International Women’s Day:Today we recognize the extraordinary contributions women have made across the globe. Women around the world are now leaders in business, government, and the sciences. The 20th century ushered so many women into leadership roles, and we must continue to build upon that progress in the 21st century.We have seen throughout history how women have shown tremendous strength and courage in the face of war, poverty, and natural disasters. This year nine women received the U.S. Department of State’s International Women of Courage Award for their leadership in the pursuit of women’s rights in their respective communities. The awardees are from Afghanistan, China, Honduras, India, Nigeria, Russia, Somalia, Syria, and Vietnam. Through adversity these women have uplifted their communities by seeking peaceful conflict resolution and equality.During my tenure in Congress, I have made it my mission to champion the empowerment of women around the world. In 2001, I began “A World of Women for World Peace” to bring greater visibility to those who are victims of war and conflict, and to bring attention to women who are active participants in non-violent conflict resolution in their communities. We must all continue to work to achieve equality for women all over the world and ensure peace and security for those in conflict regions.U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas. ###
03.07.2013	Washington, DC – (Thursday, March 7, 2013)- Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the President signing into law the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act: “I was proud to attend the President’s signing ceremony for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. Passage of VAWA was a bipartisan effort. By working together, we expanded protections to the LGBT, Native American, and immigrant communities. This law sends a strong and collective message that our nation will not tolerate these acts of violence. I will continue to advocate for victims of domestic violence, and to ensure that they receive the protections and services they deserve.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.01.2013	Congresswoman Johnson stands with Democratic Leader Pelosi and women of the Democratic Caucus to emphasize the effects that the sequester will have on America’s womenWashington, DC – (Thursday, February 28, 2013) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined a press conference with women Members of the Democratic Caucus to stress the impact the upcoming budget cuts will have on women and families.In the state of Texas, approximately 600,000 women and children would be dropped from the Department of Agriculture’s Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) from March through September. Head Start and Early Head Start services would be eliminated for approximately 4,800 children in Texas, reducing access to critical early education. Close to 2,300 disadvantaged and vulnerable children could lose access to child care.Congresswoman Johnson stated after the press conference, “Women and children will be hit the hardest by the sequester. Programs like Head Start and child care services, the vital services that the American people depend on everyday to care for their families, will be eliminated for thousands of women. The GOP is asking women and children to bear the burden of the sequester, and that is disgraceful.”“The American people need to know the consequences of these budget cuts, and how many women and children will be severely affected. The sequester will be detrimental to the growth of our economy and the investments we have made for our future,” Congresswoman Johnson noted. “We are doing a disservice to the American people by allowing these cuts to take place, and I urge my Republican colleagues to seriously consider the harm they are causing to our country.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
03.01.2013	Washington, DC – (Friday, March 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today in recognition of Women’s History Month:“Today marks the first day of Women’s History Month, a time when we reflect on those who have fought for women’s equality and celebrate the many contributions women have made to our Nation. For generations, women have led in fields of government, business, science, and education. I am proud to serve with a record number of women in Congress this term. We will utilize our collective voice to advocate for more opportunities for women and the programs that assist women and families.“This year, we commemorate the centennial anniversary of the 1913 National Women’s Suffrage Parade, where women came together, organized, and demanded the right to vote. Although we have made great strides throughout this country’s history, we must continue to work to break the barriers that affect women – like equal pay in the workplace and preserving a woman’s right to make her own healthcare decisions.“Women and girls have contributed significantly in the science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields. It’s crucial that we make a commitment to encourage young girls and women to pursue careers in STEM, because they are our future innovators and entrepreneurs.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.27.2013	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, February 27, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the unveiling of the Rosa Parks statue in the U.S. Capitol:"It was a great honor to witness the unveiling of the Rosa Parks statue. This statue is a culmination of her legacy in the civil rights struggle, and a remembrance of her act of civil disobedience that helped trigger the Montgomery Bus Boycott. Rosa Parks' courage in standing up to injustices and discrimination changed the face of history, and now she takes her place among our country’s great leaders in Statuary Hall. This year we celebrate what would have been her 100th birthday, and with this gesture we pay tribute to her tireless efforts during the civil rights movement. Ms. Parks’ story will forever resonate in our hearts and minds, and this statue will allow future generations the opportunity to reflect on an iconic historical figure.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.27.2013	Congresswoman Johnson & Congresswoman Bass led a productive dialogue on what Congress can do to help the plight of women in Africannations Washington, DC –(Wednesday, February 27, 2013) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson co-hosted a roundtable discussion with her Congressional Black Caucus colleague Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-CA) entitled Promoting Peace and Security for Women in African Nations. The purpose of the roundtable was to foster a dialogue on the plight of women in African nations, and to identify how best to strengthen the efforts of peace and security for women in Africa.“I have always believed that women bring a unique perspective to conflicts, and conflict resolution is incomplete without them,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As policymakers, we have the opportunity to work alongside African women leaders and leaders who advocate on behalf of African women, to help them access the necessary resources to effectively implement peace strategies in their communities.”The panelists included: United States Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Ambassador Johnnie Carson; United Nations Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict Zainab Hawa Bangura; Farah Council, Institute for Inclusive Security; Rebecca Deng, Shaza Elmahdi, and Hawa Salih, Voices for Sudan; Marcelo Giugale, The World Bank Director of Economic Policy and Poverty Reduction Programs in Africa; Afshan Khan, Chief Executive Officer, Women for Women International, Dr. Elavie Ndura, Ed.D Professor at George Mason University, and Dr. Akec Khoc, Ambassador of the Republic of South Sudan. The discussion was moderated by Kathleen Kuehnast, the Director for the center for Gender and Peacebuilding at the U.S. Institute of Peace.The attendees included several Members of Congress, as well as staff from the State Department, United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Civil Society Working Group, Institute for Inclusive Security, the Embassies of Sierra Leone and South Sudan, and other women advocacy organizations.“It is important we have these dialogues on a consistent basis, in order to identify and address the major needs of women around the world,” noted Congresswoman Johnson. “It is my sincere hope that today’s discussion will be a catalyst for further discussion on the persistent issue of peace and security for women in African countries, and across the globe.”See Pictures from this event here: https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10151462757097068.516252.84096022067&type=1###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.12.2013	Washington, DC –(Tuesday, February 12, 2013) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following responses to President Obama’s State of the Union address:On the Economy:“The President’s address focused on how best to grow our economy and create more jobs, and I applaud his efforts to ensure that our country is moving forward. Investments in research and innovation are key to our efforts to create more jobs. The mandatory cuts that are set to take effect after March 1st will be detrimental to research institutions such as the National Science Foundation, National Institutes of Health, and FDA. We must invest in research and development because it is critical for America is to remain a leader in global innovation.”“As the President noted in his address, we must encourage companies to make it in America so that we can bolster our manufacturing sector. Investments in our future are imperative to move our country in the right direction.”“I am a strong supporter of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education. In his remarks, the President advocated for educational policy that is better equipped to graduate students in STEM fields. Our country has a demand for high-skilled workers, and we must provide the resources our students need to excel in these careers. We must continue to emphasize the importance of STEM education because employers are looking for those skills to fill jobs here in the United States. If we want to remain on the competitive stage globally, we must invest in STEM education.”On Infrastructure:“The President’s “Fix-It-First” program would get people back to work, and address our aging infrastructure’s most urgent repairs.”On Deficit Reduction:“I agree with the President that we must have a balanced approach in cutting our deficit. Our country is in the process of rebuilding, and I believe that relief for the American people is on the horizon. Republican Members of Congress continue to push the message of slashing government spending, but we have cut so much already. They operate under the notion that our deficit created itself, or that these were not debts we incurred in the past. We can’t afford to just keep cutting without additional sources of revenue. The cuts will affect law enforcement, our first responders, nutrition assistance to low-income families, and emergency unemployment compensation. Deeper cuts to essential programs that assist small businesses and promote educational opportunities will have a detrimental impact on the future of this nation. We need to have a bipartisan balanced approach in cutting the deficit.”On Immigration Reform: “I applaud the President’s push for a comprehensive immigration system. The time is now to act to on immigration reform. Many immigrants come to America looking for a better day, and I am supportive of providing opportunities to those that are hopeful for a better tomorrow. I believe that we must have a responsible pathway to citizenship, as well as protecting our border. My colleagues on both sides of the aisle must come together to create a plan that is truly comprehensive.”On Climate Change:“I was pleased to see that climate change was a focus in the President’s address. As the Ranking Member on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, it is my duty and that of my colleagues to ensure we address our changing climate. We must continue to foster policies that are focused on prevention and prediction of devastating natural disasters. It is well past the time to address the costly impacts of a changing climate.”On Gun Control:“The horrific events like those at Sandy Hook Elementary School, and tragedies we see every day across this country are grim reminders of the need to curb gun violence. I am from a state where gun rights are extremely important, but I believe we must have commonsense reform. Background checks are needed to make sure that those who try to buy guns are mentally stable and of appropriate age. We need to restrict high capacity magazines, because too many lives have been lost already.”WATCH THE FULL SPEECH HERE### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.12.2013	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Senate’s passage of the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act:“Today’s passage in the Senate of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization is a significant step towards protecting all victims of violence. I applaud Senate Democrats and Republicans for working together to pass a strong, bipartisan VAWA Reauthorization bill, and urge my GOP colleagues to take up this bill quickly and so we can get it to the President’s desk for signature,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“It has been 501 days since House Republicans allowed VAWA to expire. A delay in bringing this bill to a vote in the House is unconscionable,” Congresswoman Johnson noted. “We are essentially asking victims of domestic violence and sexual assault to wait for the protection they desperately need. Congress must send a strong message that the American people will not tolerate violent crimes against women.”The bipartisan Senate bill includes provisions to ensure that all victims of domestic violence, including Native Americans, immigrants and members of the LBGT community, receive the resources and protections they need. VAWA will significantly strengthen the ability of Federal and State governments, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.On January 22, 2013, Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI), House Judiciary Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI), and other House Democrats introduced H.R. 11, a VAWA Reauthorization identical to the Senate bill. H.R. 11 currently has 194 Democratic cosponsors. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas
02.11.2013	(Congresswoman Johnson pictured w/ Joel Allison of Baylor, Stan McKenzie, keynote speaker Bishop Vashti Murphy McKenzie, and Rev. Claude Maples)Washington, DC –(Monday, February 11, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her 18th Annual Prayer Breakfast at the Baylor Health Care Diabetes Health and Wellness Institute at the Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center. The theme this year was “The Cost of Humanity: Protecting and Providing for Society’s Vulnerable.” Congresswoman Johnson is a founding co-chair of the Congressional Homeless Caucus, and has identified an increased need for services for those who are lacking basic necessities in the 30th district. “Everyone in a shelter did not start there, and whether it’s a single mother, veteran, or professional who has fallen on hard times, it is our responsibility as a community to lift them up as they transition to improved circumstances,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Bishop Vashti McKenzie, the presiding Bishop for the 10th Episcopal District for the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and a member of President Barack Obama’s Advisory Council of the White House Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, gave the keynote address. Congresswoman Johnson also honored Bishop J. Neaul Haynes, a long-standing board member of the Church of God in Christ.“It is very fitting to honor Bishop Haynes among his peers at this year’s Annual Prayer Breakfast. His tireless service with the Church of God in Christ has served the North Texas community and the Nation for over six decades,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Joel Allison, President & CEO of Baylor Health Care System, also offered remarks during the prayer breakfast. “Congresswoman Johnson has always been there for those who are in need of help. She has always been there for the downtrodden. We are grateful for her leadership,” said President Allison.More than one hundred leaders of the North Texas faith-based community were in attendance and discussed the importance of providing assistance to those that are poverty-stricken in Dallas. A diverse group of faith leaders from the Baptist, Church of God in Christ, Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, and Hindu communities attended the prayer breakfast.CLICK HERE TO SEE PHOTOS FROM THE PRAYER BREAKFAST### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.07.2013	Washington, DC –(Thursday, February 7, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the importance of HIV/AIDS awareness for Black communities:“Today many Americans will advocate for HIV testing and treatment, especially in Black communities. It is imperative that we stress the importance of being educated about the disease, get tested, and get treated,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.Because of health and socioeconomic disparities, African American communities are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. Sixty-nine percent of all cases reported among teenagers in 2010 were attributed to African American teenagers, while only representing 15 percent of all teenagers in the United States. African American women accounted for 68 percent of all new HIV cases among women in 2010, with an infection rate that was almost 20 times higher than that of White women.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “These numbers are striking and are a testament to how critical our efforts are in combating the spread of HIV/AIDS in the African American community, and all other communities. Federal, state, and local governments, public health agencies, and the media must all work to educate about the importance of prevention and testing, as well as the advances in the methods of treatment.”Please take the time and get tested. For more information on where to get tested for HIV please visithttps://hivtest.cdc.gov ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.04.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, February 4, 2013)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced the bipartisan National Nurse Act of 2013. The National Nurse Act of 2013 would designate the Chief Nurse Officer of the U.S. Public Health Service as the “National Nurse for Public Health.” The National Nurse for Public Health would function alongside the Surgeon General and focus on health promotion, improving healthcare literacy, and reducing health disparities.“As the first registered nurse in Congress, I know from experience how nurses play a critical role in health promotion and disease prevention,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“Chronic illnesses such as diabetes, cancer, and heart disease threaten the health of so many Americans. The National Nurse for Public Health would raise awareness about what each of us can do to prevent illness while improving our own health and that of our families.”The National Nurse Act of 2013, co-led by Congressman Peter King (R-NY), has gained the support of thirty original cosponsors ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
02.03.2013	Washington, DC – (Monday, February 4, 2013)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on anniversary of the ratification of the 15th Amendment:On February 3, 1870, the 15th Amendment to the United States Constitution was ratified. The 15th amendment banned race-based voting qualifications, and granted African American men the right to vote. Although ratified, the promise embodied in the 15th Amendment would not be fulfilled for almost a century. African American men would be disenfranchised by the use of poll taxes, literacy tests, or threats of violence. Not until the Voting Rights Act of 1965 were the majority of African Americans in the South registered to vote. “Yesterday, we remembered a landmark day in history – the ratification of the 15th Amendment to our constitution in 1870. While this was a turning point in the fight to secure voting rights for African Americans, there were still significant barriers in place to bar them from the polling place,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. “It is important that we remember this milestone in the long and arduous road to guaranteeing the right to vote for all Americans.” Congresswoman Johnson continued, “The right to vote is a fundamental principle of our democracy, and we must remain vigilant against any attempts to limit access to the polls.”Later this month, the Supreme Court will hear arguments in Shelby County v. Holder, which tests the constitutionality of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act. Under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, those states and localities that have a history of discriminatory practices must submit any proposed changes in election laws to the Justice Department and show that the laws are not discriminatory before they can go into effect. Under current law, Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act remains in effect until 2031. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.29.2013	Washington, DC –(Tuesday, January 29, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the four-year anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act:“Four years ago, President Barack Obama signed his first bill, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, into law. The passage of this bill signified the progress we have made in fighting gender-based pay disparities, and restored an employee’s legal right to challenge pay discrimination. Discriminatory pay directly affects a family’s prosperity, especially those families with women as heads of household, and leads to reduced retirement security. The Ledbetter Act protects women in the workplace, and moves our country forward to a day when women will be paid what they rightly deserve.According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women make only 77 cents for every dollar earned by their male counterparts. The Institute of Women’s Policy Research found that this wage disparity will cost women anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million over a lifetime in lost wages. These figures highlight the importance of passing the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would strengthen the Equal Pay Act and close loopholes that have allowed employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay. The Paycheck Fairness Act would prohibit retaliation from employers against employees who share their salary information with their coworkers. It would also require employers to show that unequal pay is job-related and consistent with a business necessity. The Paycheck Fairness Act is a necessity in order to properly combat wage disparities. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues to urge House Republicans to bring this legislation to the floor.”The Lilly Ledbetter Act was named for Lilly Ledbetter, a victim of sex-based pay discrimination who was denied a remedy by the Supreme Court in 2007, in a 5-4 decision. The Supreme Court held that a suit for pay discrimination must be filed within 180 days of the employer’s initial decision to pay an employee less. The bill restores longstanding prior law, which states that a pay discrimination charge must be filed within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.24.2013	Washington, DC –(Thursday, January 24, 2013) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement regarding cuts to North Texas Job Corps Center student enrollment:“The Department of Labor has announced that beginning next week, it will suspend new student enrollment at all Job Corps Centers across the United States in an effort to close a $61.5 million budget shortfall. This is a shortsighted and unwelcomed shift in policy, and one that will drastically reduce our capacity to provide critical vocational education and training for our emerging workforce,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. “The Job Corps program is critical to preparing our young people, particularly those in communities that are underserved and lack jobs and training opportunities.” The Gary Job Corps Center, which educates students from the 30th District, was selected as one of seven centers nationwide to lose new student training slots in addition to the freeze. Congresswoman Johnson added, “As a member of the Job Corps Congressional Caucus, I oppose any cuts to programs that enhance the quality and value of our workforce in an increasingly competitive job market. Today, I am joining my colleagues to urge the U.S. Department of Labor to place a 30-day moratorium on these cuts. This additional time will allow the agency more time to reevaluate the impact of these cost-cutting measures on competitiveness and education and hopefully find a viable alternative to this decision.”Job Corps is an education and career technical training program administered by the U.S. Department of Labor that helps young people ages 16 through 24 improve the quality of their lives through career technical and academic training.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.22.2013	Washington, DC –(Tuesday, January 22, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the 40th anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade, which first recognized women’s constitutional right to safe and legal abortion: “On the 40th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, I stand with women across the country as we reflect on the strides we have made in providing access to safe and legal abortion. Yet there is more work to be done to ensure that all women have access to reproductive health care,” said Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.“Today, I renew my commitment to protecting women’s rights to reproductive health choices. We all deserve to make private decisions about our bodies and our lives, and I pledge to continue the fight for this constitutional right."###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.21.2013	Washington, DC –(Monday, January 21, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the third anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United v. FEC, which struck down government restrictions on political expenditures by corporations and unions: “The Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, which struck down limits on corporate spending in political campaigns, has seriously undermined the integrity of our election process. The principles and strengths of a political candidate should drive the outcome of an election, not unbridled spending by special interests. By lifting these restrictions, the Supreme Court has inadvertently empowered a few individual billionaires and corporations to spend millions and millions, effectively suppressing the collective voice of the American people, undermining the strength of our democracy indefinitely.”“Since the ruling, Democrats in Congress have stood uniformly in opposition to this decision. Today, our resolve to reverse the consequences of Citizens United has never been more determined. Until we can address the massive amount of special interest money involved in our political process post-Citizens United, there will always be the threat of American citizens losing their Constitutional right to fair and open elections.”In 2012, campaigns and outside groups spent $6 billion in federal elections with more than $1 billion of that by Super PACS. The top 32 Super PAC donors, individuals contributing an average of nearly $10 million each, matched all of the money small donors gave to the Obama and Romney campaigns combined. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.21.2013	Washington, DC –(Monday, January 21, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of President Barack Obama’s Second Inauguration:“Today, people all over the world watched as the first African American President of the United States was sworn in for his second term. Barack Obama’s presidency has been a symbol of the progress we have made as a Nation in the struggle for civil rights and equality. This inauguration is all the more poignant as we also celebrate the 50th Anniversary of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s “I Have a Dream” speech. As we celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, this is a time to reflect on how far our Nation has come in the pursuit of a more equal union. This occasion will be etched in the history of our country, and will forever resonate in our hearts and minds.President Obama’s first term was one of many accomplishments. We passed the most significant health care reform in decades and ended the war in Iraq. We also saw the first female Hispanic Justice, Sonya Sotomayor, confirmed to the Supreme Court, and the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell. I believe that during the president’s second term, he will continue to advocate for the progressive policies that will help our country continue to exceed, and serve as an example to the world. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.21.2013	Washington, DC –(Monday, January 21, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “Today, we honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Dr. King fervently fought for unity and equality during his lifetime, and paved the way for future generations to live in a country of hope and prosperity. His dream inspired many people around the world, and his courageous fight against injustices transcends generations.Although we have overcome many obstacles as a Nation, now is the time to identify what more can be done to ensure civil rights for all mankind. Today is an opportunity to engage in our civic responsibility, and together we can make a difference domestically and internationally.Dr. King gave his life securing civil rights for all, and we must remain vigilant in the process of achieving his dream. It is my hope that we all will reflect on Dr. King’s message and continue to serve our country now and in the future. I encourage my constituents to reflect on Dr. King’s legacy, and to work to improve their communities throughout the year.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.11.2013	Washington, DC –(Friday, January 11, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced she has joined the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. The task force was created in response to the recent attack on Sandy Hook Elementary in Newtown, Connecticut, and will focus its efforts on reducing and preventing gun violence.The Gun Violence Prevention Task Force is developing a comprehensive set of policy proposals, including examining sensible regulations to govern the sale and purchase of firearms while protecting the 2nd Amendment rights of responsible gun owners, closing gaps in our mental health care system, strengthening the background check system, and addressing violence in our culture. “America needs a comprehensive approach to curb the gun violence.” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I look forward to serving on the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and working with my colleagues to create effective legislation that will help keep our communities safer and free from gun violence.”Over the next several weeks the task force will hold a number of meetings and hearings designed to identify the best policies to reduce and prevent gun violence. The task force will meet with various interest groups, including law enforcement officers, gun owners and sportsmen groups, gun manufactures and gun retailers, mental health experts, gun violence prevention groups, members of the entertainment industry, education organizations and other experts and stakeholders. A comprehensive set of policy proposals will be released by the task force in early February.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.03.2013	Washington, DC –(Thursday, January 3, 2013) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was sworn-in to her eleventh term as the Representative of Texas’s Thirtieth Congressional District.“I am honored and humbled by the trust placed in me by the people of the 30th Congressional District,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I will work diligently for my constituents, and ensure that we are moving forward as a district and as a Nation. We must ultimately find a way to prevent further economic crisis, and to continue to strengthen our middle class. I hope all of my colleagues and the Leadership will continue to work on these issues, and that the legislative policies forthcoming in the 113th Congress ultimately reflect solid bipartisan collaboration.”The 30th District of Texas includes downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff, Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.Congresswoman Johnson has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since 1993. She is the first African American and the first female Ranking Member on the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee. Congresswoman Johnson also serves as the highest ranking Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.02.2013	Washington, DC –(Wednesday, January 2, 2013) – Late last night, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson reluctantly and cautiously supported the Senate Amendment to HR 8 which helped America avoid the pending tax rate increases commonly known as the Fiscal Cliff. Congresswoman Johnson made the following statement after voting for this difficult but necessary measure: “Last night’s vote in the House was one of the hardest votes I have cast in my tenure in Congress. The agreement was not a perfect proposal, but it avoided serious damage to our national economy. One of my concerns about the measure is that it did not generate nearly enough revenue. I am afraid that the haste and the lack of detailed effort will ultimately translate to a series of tax hikes and spending cuts in future years that will negatively impact the middle class and the poor.I have serious reservations about any attempt to cut benefits in Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. I am committed to evaluating the impact of the funding used to pay for the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR or "doc fix"). I strongly oppose cuts to services for diabetes, end stage renal disease, and other illnesses disproportionately impacting my constituents. As a non-practicing registered nurse, I know how devastating these cuts would be for medical services in underserved communities.I am pleased to see that the Senate approved a one-year extension of unemployment insurance benefits, providing necessary support for those looking to return to work as the economy recovers. I am also pleased to learn that deep cuts for many important programs that support the most vulnerable and provide pathways to prosperity for millions of Americans, including Head Start and WIC, were delayed. I would have preferred to see a long term extensions to these critical provisions.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Kessler Park, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, South Dallas & South Oak Cliff; all of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Ferris, Glenn Heights, South Grand Prairie, Oak Lawn, Ovilla, Uptown/Victory Park and West Dallas.
01.01.2013	Washington, DC –(Tuesday, January 1, 2013) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was invited as a special guest during the 150th Anniversary of the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation as the United Postal Service unveiled a commemorative stamp in the National Archives in Washington, D.C on January 1, 2013. Joined by members of the National Archives and Records Administration, and the United States Postal Service, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the 2013 commemorative stamp to the Nation, which will be sold at post offices all across the country.“The signing of the Emancipation Proclamation marked a critical moment in our Nation’s history. By declaring free all slaves throughout Confederate states, this document laid the groundwork for many of the equalities that have come to define our great Union as we know it today. This commemorative stamp is one way that we as a people can honor this important piece of our Nation’s history.”The Emancipation Proclamation stamp will be sold as a Forever stamp through the United States Postal Service. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.17.2012	Washington, DC –(Monday, December 17, 2012) – Today, Politico featured a joint editorial by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson on the need to continue to invest in America’s future during the ongoing “fiscal cliff” negotiations.“If we don’t prioritize spending or bring in sufficient revenues, programs that expand our economy and protect the most vulnerable are at risk. Indiscriminate cuts to those kinds of programs would damage the economy even further, and make it harder for millions to achieve the American Dream,” Reps. Hoyer and Johnson noted. “We’re concerned that, unless we reach a big and balanced deal, items like House Democrats’ “Make It In America” plan will not become reality. This jobs plan invests in innovation, education, and infrastructure in order to help our businesses and workers compete in the global economy. This is the type of jobs platform our nation needs to build a lasting, strong economy, and it represents the kind of investments we believe are worth prioritizing as we get our fiscal house in order.”Democrats’ Make It In America plan was introduced earlier this year, and is comprised of legislation that promotes innovation and a stronger workforce here in the United States. As Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the Broadening Participation in STEM Education Act, which would authorize National Science Foundation grants to help bring more students from underrepresented groups into STEM learning programs.To view the full op-ed, click here:https://www.politico.com/story/2012/12/deficit-solution-must-preserve-the-american-dream-85180.html?hp=r2 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.14.2012	Washington, DC –(Friday, December 14, 2012) – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a $120 million direct loan to the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) to continue the third phase of its light rail Orange Line extension project. The extension project will connect Irving, Texas, with Dallas Fort Worth Airport (DFW), and is part of a long-term effort to create a 90-mile light rail network by 2014 to serve the Dallas metropolitan area. The loan will be used to fund construction of a key 5.17-mile segment of DART’s 14.5-mile light rail Orange Line. DART President and Executive Director Gary Thomas said, "Securing this agreement is an important next step in our progress toward connecting DFW Airport to the growing DART Rail network. We appreciate Congresswoman Johnson's steadfast support of all of our programs. We are always able to count on her and the entire delegation when it comes to improving regional mobility."Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson noted, “Texas, and North Texas specifically, has been very successful in pursuing TIFIA funding. TIFIA awards are very competitive nationally, and this award speaks to the merit of DART’s application and is indicative of the steps we are taking to improve local transit, and our ongoing commitment to investing in our infrastructure. The expansion of Dallas’ Orange Line is a vital part in our efforts to bolster our economy, by creating jobs and strengthening our infrastructure. As a conferee to the recently-passed transportation bill, I was pleased to be able to help expand the TIFIA program, and am glad to see the benefits come to North Texas. ” “This investment will continue expanding Dallas’ Orange Line, creating jobs and delivering a major transportation project that will help the regional economy continue to grow and prosper,” said Ray LaHood, secretary of U.S. transportation. “It’s all part of President Obama’s vision of rebuilding America, providing commuters and visitors with a variety of transportation options to fit their needs.” The Department of Transportation has committed a total of approximately $796 million since 1996 to help DART build the Green and Orange Line portions of an extensive light rail system. Once completed, the expanded line will improve east-west connections between DFW and the DART system by connecting to the Green Line that runs through downtown Dallas as well as to other transit services, including commuter rail. The loan agreement is part of the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program (TIFIA), which provides assistance for projects of regional and national significance. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.11.2012	Congresswoman Johnson speaking to scientists and educators at ethnic diversity workshop in Arlington, Virginia Washington, DC – (Tuesday, December 11, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson spoke at the Ethnic Diversity Workshop in Materials Science, held by the National Science Foundation and the Department of Energy. The workshop’s focus was to address the lack of diversity in post-secondary education and the Materials Science fields.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “Statistics show that students from minority communities are falling behind in math and science as early as the 4th grade. We cannot continue down this path if we want to remain competitive globally. We must continue to emphasize and invest in STEM education so that our science and tech companies can find the skilled workforce they need here at home.”Justin Schwartz, head of the Department of Materials Science at North Carolina State University, said “Congresswoman Johnson has shown both expertise and leadership in increasing diversity in the science fields, and we are thankful for her thoughts and perspectives.” North Carolina State University was one of the universities partnering in the event.The workshop was held in Arlington, Virginia, and attended by government agencies, academics, and graduate students from across the country.As the first African American and the first female Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Congresswoman Johnson has been a constant champion for increasing the ranks of underrepresented minorities in science, technology, engineering, and math fields. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.07.2012	Washington, DC –(Friday, December 7, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today, commemorating the 71st anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor:“On this day, we honor and remember those who served our country at the Pearl Harbor naval base on December 7, 1941. The bravery shown that day by our men in uniform will never be forgotten. We are thankful for those who made the ultimate sacrifice that day, and their dedication to the protection of this country will always be in our hearts.One of those heroes was Dorie Miller, an African American mess attendant aboard the USS West Virginia, when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Dorie Miller was responsible for dragging his ship's wounded commander out of the line of fire. Once his captain was safe, he manned a machine gun on the ship's deck. Dorie Miller continued to serve his country in the Navy during World War II. However, in 1943, he and 654 shipmates were killed in the line of duty when the Japanese sank the USS Liscome Bay near the Gilbert Islands. As we honor the devotion, dedication, and sacrifice of all who served at Pearl Harbor, I can think of no better commemoration than to finally recognize the brave acts of Dorie Miller. I have introduced legislation that would begin to cure this injustice. The bill would waive the time limitation specified in current law for the awarding of military decorations in order to allow the posthumous award of the Congressional Medal of Honor to Dorie Miller for his heroic actions during World War II.Many soldiers lost their lives that day, and we will forever be indebted to them. We thank all those in the Armed Forces who serve our great Nation, and not enough appreciation could ever be shown to those who sacrificed their lives at Pearl Harbor.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.03.2012	Washington, DC –(Monday, December 3, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the announcement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services concerning prescription drugs savings made possible by the Affordable Care Act:“Today, Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced that America’s seniors have saved more than $5.1 billion on prescription drugs since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act. In Texas alone, 158,000 Medicare recipients have saved over $300 million by closing the Medicare prescription drug coverage gap known as the “donut hole.” Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, Medicare recipients will continue to see these savings on prescription drugs until 2020, when the donut hole coverage gap will close.As the only North Texas legislator to vote for this historic healthcare reform bill, I am pleased to see so many Texans taking advantage of its many benefits. More than 1.62 million Texans have also utilized free access to preventive services. As the American people see increased savings and access to care, the Affordable Care Act is more popular than ever before.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.30.2012	Washington, DC –(Friday, November 30, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on World AIDS Day, which falls on Saturday, December 1, 2012: “As we approach the 19th anniversary of World AIDS Day, let us reaffirm our commitment to finding a cure for this deadly disease, so that an AIDS-free generation can soon become a reality. As a Nation, we have made remarkable progress over the past 30 years in the fight against HIV/AIDS. We must not only renew our efforts, we must pursue a cure and improved treatment aggressively. With investments in advanced research and cutting edge technology, we are considerably closer than we were 31 years ago to finding a cure for HIV/AIDS. Despite our Nation’s fiscal woes, we must continue to prioritize funding, research, and treatment initiatives. Not only is HIV debilitating and AIDS a deadly diagnosis for so many globally, these illnesses are a huge economic burden on our Nation. Scaling back our investments in HIV/AIDS research is short-sided and could compromise domestic productivity and fiscal growth. I am deeply concerned about the destruction that HIV/AIDS has brought to the African-American community. While African-American women comprise 22 percent of the population in Dallas, they account for 71 percent of women who are diagnosed with HIV.On World AIDS Day, let’s use this opportunity to take up a renewed call to fight this global pandemic, and reinforce our efforts in helping those affected by HIV/AIDS.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.30.2012	Washington, DC –(Friday, November 30, 2012) – Today, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) announced that the new Dallas-Fort Worth regional satellite office will be housed in the Terminal Annex Federal Building in downtown Dallas.For the first time in its history, the USPTO is expanding its operations outside of the Washington, D.C. area in an ongoing effort to modernize the U.S. patent system, and foster economic growth through innovation.“The Central Business District will be a great fit for the USPTO’s new office. Downtown Dallas is one of the most diverse and talented communities in the Nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Dallas has a thriving business sector, and our city will embrace its role as a center of entrepreneurship and innovation.”“With this announcement, inventors and business leaders across the country will have greater access to the protections afforded by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. This expansion will bolster our capacity as a Nation to foster new ideas, and continue to be the world leader in developing intellectual property.”The Dallas satellite office will expand the capacity of the USPTO to process patents and recruit high-quality examiners, while enhancing overall accessibility for the rest of the country. The Dallas office is being established under a 10-year lease, and is projected to create more than a hundred new jobs in the Dallas-Fort Worth area. Occupancy of the new satellite office is planned for late 2013.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.26.2012	Washington, DC –(Monday, November 26, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement on extending middle class tax cuts:“With Cyber Monday shopping, the holiday season is in full swing, and spending by consumers is providing a much needed boost to our economy. Today, the White House released a report on the impact on consumer spending and retailers of the impending middle class tax hikes. As the White House report illustrates, our economy can’t afford middle class tax hikes. By extending these tax cuts, the typical middleclass family will maintain a tax break of $2,200 next year. For the good of our country and our economy, we must work together to quickly extend tax cuts for 98 percent of all Americans. If Congress fails to act, middleclass families will see their income taxes go up in 2013. It is essential that we work together to provide certainty and peace of mind to families, retailers, and small businesses during this holiday season.Democratic Members of Congress have proposed the extension of all the middle class tax cuts, and the Senate has passed middle class tax cut legislation. It is now time for the House Republican Leadership to take up this proposal and provide some economic certainty to the American people.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.09.2012	Washington, D.C. - (November 9, 2012)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Veteran’s Day, which will be observed on Monday, Nov. 12, 2012:“Veteran’s Day is a day when Americans come together to recognize and remember the sacrifices of servicemen and women of America’s Armed Forces. The brave efforts of our Armed Forces is the sole foundation of freedom and democracy.I express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the brave American men and women in uniform and recognize the families of our fallen. Their dedication to protecting our country’s freedom is truly appreciated and can never be forgotten.On this day, we remember the contributions of those who have served in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere around the world. President Barack Obama ended the war in Iraq responsibly, and brought home our troops that were stationed there. We are working towards the same goal in Afghanistan and plan for our troops to return home in 2014.Now, more than ever, we must renew our commitment to our veteran’s and ensure they receive the benefits they so rightly deserve when they come home. Our soldiers are in desperate need of employment and medical treatments. In the 30th Congressional District, over 30,000 veterans reside and it has the 2nd largest VA Medical Center in the nation. The national unemployment rate for our post-9/11 veterans is at 9.7 percent. Specifically in the state of Texas, the average unemployment rate for post-9/11 veterans was 13.5 percent in 2011, according to the latest finding by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Congress and President Obama have made great strides in helping our veterans succeed. The new Post 9-11 GI Bill has already helped over 700,000 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan Wars to afford college. We have strengthened health care for more than 5 million veterans by providing better access to treatment. The support for military families has fortified buy building more military child care centers and better military housing. While we are on the path to decreasing these unemployment figures, we must continue to push forward to ensure our veterans have the tools they need to successfully enter the workforce.As we reflect on this Veteran’s Day, I ask that all Americans take a moment and thank our veterans and active duty members for their unwavering service. We appreciate all of their hard work and dedication to keeping our country safe, and we have an obligation to ensure a return to normalcy when they come back from service.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.02.2012	Dallas, TX - (November 2, 2012)– On Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson served meals to veterans at the annual Pre-Veterans Day Cook-Out at the Dallas VA Medical Center.Each year this event is held to show appreciation to the veterans for their service and to the staff for all of their due diligence in caring for our veterans. The event hosted nearly 2,000 people, including patients, staff and volunteers.“I am the granddaughter, daughter, wife, sister, niece and cousin of veterans and I am extremely grateful of your service because it made America the thriving country it is today,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“It’s always an honor to welcome Congresswoman Johnson back to Dallas VA. Our Veterans appreciated her special words to honor their service at our veterans appreciation event,” said Jeff Milligan, director of the Dallas VA.Congresswoman Johnson was the first AA nurse supervisor hired at the Dallas VA, and the first African American professional nurse elected to the U.S. Congress. Her 15 years of experience as a Chief Psychiatric Nurse at the Dallas VA allows her to be a leader in Congress on veterans issues. Congresswoman Johnson has successfully introduced legislations to improve the quality of care at VA hospitals.See pictures from this event here: https://goo.gl/3i4KZ ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.02.2012	Dallas, TX - (November 2, 2012)– On Thursday, Nov. 1, 2012 , Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson visited the Barack Obama Male Leadership Academy where she addressed students on the importance of leadership in all aspects of their lives.Congresswoman Johnson stressed the need for young men to possess strong leadership qualities in order to become the next exceptional leaders of America. She also highlighted the successes and challenges of her career in public service, followed by a question and answer period with the students.“Our young men are an intricate part of the future direction of this nation. We must continue to encourage them to face challenges with perseverance and determination to help prepare them for the obstacles they will encounter in their futures,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The young men provided a moving patriotic themed medley, while the jazz ensemble showcased a number of classics before Congresswoman Johnson spoke to the students.Congresswoman Johnson commended the leadership academy for their dedication and diligence in the development of these young men. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.26.2012	Dallas, TX - (Friday, October 26, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement reaffirming the importance of the Help America Vote Act:“As we mark the tenth anniversary of the enactment of the Help America Vote Act, which was signed into law on October 29, 2002, we must continue to ensure for a trustworthy and accessible voting process for the citizens of this nation. During this election, the voting process has come under attack. It is our duty as Members of Congress to make certain that the voting process is without blemish, especially after the election fiasco in Florida in 2000.The Help America Vote Act is instrumental in making sure ballots are counted accurately, making it easier for military personnel to vote, and ensures that polling places are accessible to those with disabilities. It created the Election Assistance Commission, which helps states transition to modern voting machines. The Act enforced the use of provisional ballots for those whose eligibility is questioned and who would have been turned away. In addition, the Act included provisions such as creating a uniform, nationwide voter registration database to protect against fraud, and help military service members to vote while abroad. Even though this legislation has created positive changes to our voting system, we must take the next steps to protect voter access.In May, civil rights leader Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) led House Democrats in introducing the Voter Empowerment Act, legislation that will further highlight the issue of a secure voting system. I firmly support this legislation because it makes sure all eligible voters can cast their ballots without the risk of being turned away. It bans unlawful purging of voter rolls, and cracks down on deceptive practices that discourage voters from turning out. The Voter Empowerment Act will ensure that the gains we have made as a Nation in the name of expanding voting rights for all Americans will remain intact. I urge the House leadership to bring the Voter Empowerment Act to the House Floor for a vote to guarantee voter security and to continue to push for stronger voting rights.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.16.2012	Washington, DC -(Tuesday, October 16, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on how the Ryan plan will increase premiums for millions of seniors, and how specifically its effects would be felt by seniors in the 30th Congressional District of Texas:“Congressman Ryan introduced a budget, which is supported by Governor Romney and House Republicans, that would do irreparable damage to our Medicare system. The Ryan-Republican Plan transforms Medicare into a voucher system, increasing costs for seniors and subjecting them to the whims of private insurance companies. Under the Ryan Plan, the guarantee we have made to our seniors of coverage and affordability of Medicare will cease to exist. Americans have contributed to Medicare their entire lives, and the Ryan Plan jeopardizes a program that seniors rely on when they retire.”In the 30th District, the Ryan plan:· Increases prescription costs for 4,600 Medicare beneficiaries who enter the Part D donut hole, forcing them to pay an extra $42 million for drugs over the next decade.· Eliminates new preventive care benefits for 71,000 Medicare beneficiaries.· Forces 71,000 Medicare beneficiaries who are currently enrolled in traditional Medicare to pay thousands of dollars more in premiums to remain in traditional Medicare after Medicare becomes a voucher program.· Reduces coverage for 11,600 Medicare beneficiaries who rely on Medicaid to supplement their Medicare coverage, potentially denying them over $410 million in health benefits.· Jeopardizes nursing home care for 1,400 district residents whose expenses are paid by Medicaid.The Congresswoman noted, “the Ryan plan is harmful to the residents of the 30th District, and I will not support a policy that breaks the promises we have made to our seniors. There is a far better alternative to the Ryan plan: the Affordable Care Act, supported by Democratic Members of Congress and signed into law by President Obama. The Affordable Care Act reduces the costs of prescription drugs for seniors, offers a wide range of critical preventive services for seniors, and extends the program by nearly a decade. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues to protect seniors from these destructive attempts by the GOP, and stand firm against Republican attempts to dismantle the Medicare system.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.15.2012	Washington, DC -(Monday, October 15, 2012)–Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement on Blind Americans Equality Day:“Today, we celebrate the many achievements of Americans who are blind or visually impaired. These individuals often face tremendous challenges in their everyday lives. Yet, despite these challenges, Americans who are blind or visually impaired make significant contributions to our country.”“As a diverse Nation, it is critical that we treat each person with respect and dignity. Today, we reaffirm our Nation’s commitment to preserving the equality and fair treatment of individuals who are blind or visually impaired.”“In my District, I remain firmly committed to supporting the efforts of the Dallas Lighthouse for the Blind in North Texas. Since 1931, the Dallas Lighthouse has provided extensive employment opportunities and training to individuals who are blind or visually impaired. Today, the Dallas Lighthouse continues to empower hundreds of individuals with more exciting opportunities and innovative skills than ever before.”“While we celebrate the contributions of Americans who are blind or visually impaired, we must also uphold our promise to ensure equal access and opportunity for every American.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.10.2012	Washington, DC -(Wednesday, October 10, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement concerning today’s oral arguments in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin before the Supreme Court:"Today, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments in Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin, in what has become the first challenge to using race as a factor for college and university admissions since the court upheld this practice in 2003. The holistic approaches currently utilized during the evaluation of college applicants are again being brought into question despite years of proven practice to take race into account to achieve diversity.""Diversity in higher education helps to strengthen our education system and our Nation, and equips students from all different backgrounds with the skills needed to compete in today’s global economy. A decision by the Supreme Court to overturn legal precedent recognizing diversity as a compelling interest would curtail the ability of schools to tailor their admissions policies, and negatively impact our children’s future. Understanding the gravity of this decision and the importance of diversity in educational institutions, I have joined my colleagues in filing an amicus brief in support of the University of Texas at Austin’s existing admissions policies to diversify and enhance its student body.""While it may be months before a final decision is reached, the potential consequences of an unfavorable ruling cannot be overemphasized. The outcome of this ruling could undo decades of effort by higher learning institutions to create a richer and more integrated learning environment for students. I trust that the Supreme Court will uphold precedent that equal opportunity in higher education is one pathway to success that we must preserve for all Americans."###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.10.2012	WASHINGTON, DC – (October 10,2012) - Congressional Black Caucus member Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement regarding the death of former Congressional Black Caucus Chairman Mervyn Dymally on October 7, 2012. Mr. Dymally served as Member of the Congressional Black Caucus from 1981-1993 and served as Chair during the 100th Congress:“It is deeply saddening to hear of the passing of our former Chairman Mervyn M. Dymally. He was instrumental in breaking a number of barriers for African Americans, and for all people of color during his tenure as an elected official on the local, state and federal levels.Mr. Dymally was the first Black state Senator and first Black Lieutenant Governor for the state of California. His constant advocacy for the protection of rights for all people ensured that the voices of people of color, and lower socioeconomic levels would be heard. The most defenseless Americans had a voice in securing their futures because of the tireless efforts of Mr. Dymally.During his career in the House of Representatives and as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Mr. Dymally continuously brought civil, economic and human rights issues, domestically and abroad, to the forefront. Mr. Dymally was a prominent figure in the passage of the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986 that implemented sanctions against South Africa, secured the freedom of Nelson Mandela and other political prisoners, and helped to end apartheid in the country. He was also the CBC member that pioneered the way for advancements in technology, prior to my tenure in the House.Mr. Dymally’s impact on society will have a rippling effect on this generation and generations to come. My thoughts and prayers are with the family during their time of bereavement.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.05.2012	Washington, DC- (Friday, October 5, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issues the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor’s September employment report:“I am very pleased to learn that the unemployment rate fell to 7.8 percent and that 114,000 jobs were added in September. The unemployment rate fell to its lowest since President Obama took office and this is a strong indication that our economy is on the right track towards improvement.House Democrats and the President are working hard to provide tax cuts for working families, to invest in small businesses and manufactures. While we are headed on the right track, there is still more to be done to bring security to American families who are struggling in our economy.I will continue working with my House colleagues to ensure that all Americans have access to the American Dream.”
09.26.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Addresses Nearly 300 students at the Science & Technology BraintrustWashington, DC- (Wednesday, September 26, 2012) — Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson recently hosted her annual Science and Technology Braintrust, which brought together prominent leaders in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields to help influence nearly 300 minority students to become engaged in STEM.This year’s theme Changing the Tide, focused on the important role that community leaders, and mentors play in guiding and inspiring our youth. Actress Tatyana Aliserved as a moderator of the discussion.“I’ve hosted the Science and Technology Braintrust each year to foster more interaction between positive minority role models and minority youth. When children see examples of successful leaders who look like them, the potential for those children to believe in themselves and succeed are far greater,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Braintrust serves as an important forum to discuss vital strategies on how we can produce future scientists and engineers.”During the program, students had the opportunity to engage with the panelists and ask direct questions. Attendees heard from panelists, including Stephanie Wilson, Astronaut at NASA; Veronica Johnson, Meteorologist at NBC4 Washington; and others.The Braintrust was viewed through a live webcast hosted by NASA to students nationwide. Students in Texas had the opportunity to virtually ask questions to the panel. See Pictures from this event here: https://on.fb.me/WtylTp ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.26.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Receives STEM Champion AwardFrom Open Gov TV Washington, DC-(Wednesday, September 26, 2012) – On September 20th, Congresswoman Johnson was honored by Open Gov TV for her work in STEM Education (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics) at the STEM Champions Reception. Congresswoman Johnson was awarded the prestigious STEM Champion Award for serving as an innovative leader and advocate for increasing diversity in the STEM fields.“It is an honor to receive the STEM Champion Award and I thank Open Gov TV for recognizing my work in STEM Education,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“As the Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, I have worked hard to ensure that all Americans have equal opportunities and exposure in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The purpose of the STEM Champions Reception was to foster dialogue on how urban America can reduce the wealth gap and participate in the 21st century global economy. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.18.2012	Washington, DC— (Tuesday, September 18, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15 every year.“On September 15, our Nation began its month-long celebration of Hispanic heritage. Since 1988, millions of Americans have celebrated this month in recognition of the worthwhile and lasting contributions by Latinos to our society. The Hispanic community is the fastest growing ethnic group in our country, with more than 50 million people, who make America a better and stronger Nation through their values and achievements that have enriched America’s melting pot.In Texas, Latinos now account for thirty eight percent of the population, while over twenty percent of businesses in Texas are Hispanic-owned. Showing appreciation for the Hispanic community is showing appreciation for our fellow business leaders, working families, and servicemen and women.This month, we also acknowledge my fellow Texan and the Chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus – Chairman Charlie Gonzalez. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus has worked hard to advance the needs and interests of the Hispanic community. Hispanic Heritage Month is just one way that we can show our appreciation for their many contributions and celebrate the diversity of our great Nation.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.11.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Honors 9/11 with House Colleagues On Capitol Hill Washington, DC- (Tuesday, September 11, 2012)– Today, Members of Congress gathered on the steps of the Capitol in remembrance of the victims of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in recognition of 9/11:“Eleven years ago today, America was forever changed. Today, we pause to remember the thousands of people who lost their lives and the loved ones who are still impacted by the devastating terrorist attacks on our Nation. We come together to reflect on their memory and the memory of the brave first responders who sacrificed their lives’ to save their fellow Americans.This day is never easy and eleven times we have recognized this day in reflection and remembrance of the nearly 3,000 innocent lives lost. We are deeply indebted to the members of our Armed Forces who stand ready to protect us from future terrorist attacks. The strength of the American people has never been tested so greatly, yet our perseverance and resolve has never been greater. We must always continue to honor the lives lost and the families affected. 9/11 will always remain in our hearts and in our prayers.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.31.2012	Washington, DC-(Friday, August 31, 2012) – Yesterday, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia rejected Texas’s Voter ID law, Senate Bill 14 (SB 14), which would have required voters to present a government-issued photo ID. In its decision, the Court noted that the law would have imposed “strict, unforgiving burdens on the poor,” and that minority voters are more likely to live in poverty. “This ruling is another solid victory for the state of Texas. The Texas Voter ID law would have disenfranchised hundreds of thousands of seniors, students, low-income individuals, minorities, and people with disabilities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Overturning this law will preserve the integrity of our elections, and ensure that every American has equal access to the polls. I applaud the Court’s decision to reject this discriminatory law, and I look forward to fair and open elections in November.”Under the Voting Rights Act, Texas and several other states with a history of discriminatory practices, must obtain “pre-clearance” from the Department of Justice or a declaratory judgment from the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia in order to implement any changes to election laws.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.30.2012	Washington, DC – (Thursday, August 30, 2012)— On August 28th, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia ruled that the redistricting maps drawn by the Republican-led Texas legislature did not comply with the Voting Rights Act of 1965. The Court found the U.S. Congressional and Texas State Legislature redistricting maps discriminated against minority voters.“This ruling is a huge victory for the state of Texas and for voting rights across our country. The right to vote is the bedrock of our democracy, yet history has shown deliberate attempts to disenfranchise minority communities and bar them from voting at the polls,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“Our state is very diverse and it is becoming more so each year. This diversity should be reflected in the individuals that we send to theTexas State Legislature, and the United States Congress. All citizens, in Texas and throughout the U.S., should have equal voting rights and protection under the law.”Under the Voting Rights Act, Texas and several other states with a history of discriminatory practices, must obtain “preclearance” from the Department of Justice or a declaratory judgment from the U.S. District Court of the District of Columbia in order to implement any redistricting plans. ”Since the 2000 U.S. Census, Texas’s population has grown by 4.3 million people. Latinos accounted for 65 percent of that growth, while 13.4 percent were black and 10.1 percent were Asian-American. It was argued that this growth was not represented in the new maps.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.30.2012	Washington, DC-(Thursday, August 30, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Alameda Heights Outreach Foundation will receive a $1.1 million grant from the U.S. Department of Labor for the organization’s Dallas YouthBuild program. YouthBuild is a community-based education program that provides classroom instruction and occupational skills training to at-risk youth ages 16-24.“It is great news to hear that the Alameda Heights Outreach Foundation will be awardedsuch a significant grant from the U.S. Department of Labor. This news comes at a time when the foundation was facing afunding challenge to enroll more young people into their program. Now the foundation will have greater financial resources to provide young adults the certifications and skills necessary to achieve economic independence,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.Alameda Heights Outreach Foundation received the highest amount awarded by the Department of Labor. “On behalf of Alameda Heights Outreach Foundation, we thank Congresswoman Johnson for her continued support for our Dallas YouthBuild program. We appreciate her concern for today’s youth, for serving as an advocate for all constituents, and providing ongoing support in ensuring budgetary funding for YouthBuild programs,” said Artis Dean, Executive Director, Alameda Heights.The U.S. Department of Labor awarded more than $75 million in YouthBuild grants to various organizations to help out-of-school youth earn a GED or high school diploma, while learning critical skills in construction, health care, information technology, and other fields. The Labor Department actively funds 127 YouthBuild programs around the country.
08.23.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, August 23, 2012) –Today, Congresswoman Johnson applauded a $174,410 grant for Dallas County, which was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. The award given is a part of the National Institute of Justice’s Paul Coverdell Forensic Science Improvement Grants Program. “I am pleased to learn that Dallas County will be awarded funding to improve forensic science. Forensic evidence is a critical tool that our law enforcement officials need to investigate crimes. This data is essential in helping our officials solve crimes, and keep our communities safe,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“The Coverdell funds will go a long way to enhance our existing law enforcement capabilities. These funds will be used to improve the quality of forensic science and medical examiner services in Dallas County and these financial resources can be used to eliminate backlogs in the analysis of forensic evidence.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill
08.21.2012	Dallas, Texas - (Tuesday, August 21, 2011) – On August 16, Congresswoman Johnson presented the Eddie Bernice Johnson Award for Excellence in Transportation Leadership to Congressman Tom Petri, who represents the 6th District of Wisconsin.“I am very proud to present this award to Congressman Petri for his longstanding dedication to improving transportation infrastructure in our country. Congressman Petri’s career in Congress has been characterized by his commitment to pursuing thoughtful legislation, and the advancement of sound policy,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The Transportation & Infrastructure Summit was Congresswoman Johnson’s brainchild and she has been heavily involved in the Summit since its inception. Congresswoman Johnson also served on a panel with several other Members of Congress on issues facing the Nation’s transportation systems and what passage of the transportation bill would mean for Texas.“The passage of the transportation bill will result in over 2 million jobs being created or saved across the Nation. In terms of transportation dollars, Texas will receive more than $3 billion annually in highway formula funds. As the senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that Texas receives the needed infrastructure and its share of federal funding.”The event,now in its 15th year,is an internationally recognized conference aimed at furthering the dialogue on transportation policy. See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/PJuORm ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights
08.16.2012	Congresswoman Johnson presented plaque by Doug Jones, Julie Shaffer, Blake Lindsay, & CEO of Lighthouse for the Blind, Nancy PerkinsWashington, DC- (Thursday, August 16, 2012) — On August 15, Congresswoman Johnson received an award plaque by the Dallas Lighthouse for the Blind for her involvement with the organization as an AbilityOne Champion, which includes her effort to promote opportunities for economic and personal independence of the blind and those with severe disabilities. Congresswoman Johnson spent the day with the organization, offered remarks, and toured the facility. “I humbly accept this honor for my work as an AbilityOne Champion, and will continue to support community oriented organizations through my work in Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“Since 1931, the Dallas Lighthouse for the Blind has provided unique employment opportunities and training to blind or visually-impaired individuals throughout North Texas. Your organization has established a proven method for creating jobs, bolstering local economies, and integrating those who are visually impaired into the workforce.”See pictures from the event here: https://on.fb.me/NfBMca ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.14.2012	Washington, DC-(Tuesday, August 14, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson releases the following statement in honor of the 77th Anniversary of Social Security:“On August 14, 1935, President Franklin Roosevelt signed Social Security into law to provide seniors financial security after a lifetime of hard work. With the enactment of this law, our Nation made a promise to guarantee the retirement security of American seniors.Prior to Social Security, nearly half of our seniors lived in poverty and now less than 10 percent are impoverished. Today, Social Security allows nearly 55 million seniors, Americans with disabilities, andwidowers and their children the opportunity to live in financial security.It is extremely disturbing to know that Republicans are working hard to halt these benefits for seniors, privatizing Social Security, and limiting economic stability. I will continue working with my Democratic colleagues to fight for the financial security of our Nation’s seniors and all Americans.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.13.2012	Congresswoman Johnson with DeSoto Mayor Carl Sherman and Lancaster Mayor Marcus Knight Washington, DC- (Monday, August 13, 2012) — On Friday, August 10,Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson spoke at the Best Southwest Partnership’s Annual TGIF Legislative Breakfast Series at the Methodist Charlton Medical Center. The Legislative Breakfast Series provides an opportunity for constituents and interested parties to connect directly with their elected officials on the local, state, and national level.“As most of you know, Congressional Members spend most of August in their districts. My time away from Washington allows me the chance to be here with you today,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson spoke about recent legislative activity on Capitol Hill.“I believe that the most significant legislative accomplishment in this Congress was the passage of the transportation bill. Investing in North Texas’ infrastructure brings with it both long and short-term gain. By building out our infrastructure we not only create thousands of good paying jobs, but we provide a platform to invest in our economic future. I am pleased to share that due to the passing of the transportation bill, Texas will receive more than $3 billion in highway formula funds.”Congresswoman Johnson also discussed several additional programs and legislation that she has introduced in the areas of health care, manufacturing, and economic development in South Dallas/Dallas County.The Best Southwest Partnership is 26 years old consisting of core cities and chambers of Cedar Hill, DeSoto, Duncanville, Lancaster, among others. The TGIF Legislative Breakfasts are free and open to the public. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.08.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Poses With Participants During The Summit Washington, DC- (Wednesday, August 8, 2012) — On Monday, August 6th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her daylong 6th Annual Youth Summit & Diversity Dialogue at Southern Methodist University. The summit provided a forum for students to explore diversity and cultural awareness programs and to participate in interactive breakout sessions. Students between the ages of 13-17 from the Dallas Fort-Worth area were selected to participate in the summit.“This year’s theme is Putting Our Signature on the Future. This summit is designed to foster diversity and stimulate dialogue on issues that will affect you, your classmates, and your communities. Everyone here in this room today has the potential to make real and positive change in their communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“As you become young adults, we will look to you to provide leadership, and to find solutions to the growing problems facing our world today.”The day began with an opening ceremony where students heard from Dr. Gerald Turner, President of Southern Methodist University; Catherine Monson, CEO of FASTSIGNS; and Sarosha Hansraj, Founder of Children Care for Children; Bonnie King,Regional Environmental Education Coordinatorof Environmental Protection Agency, in addition to remarks from Congresswoman Johnson.Catherine Monson, CEO of FASTSIGNS, INC., who was featured on the CBS TV Series Undercover Boss, provided valuable professional leadership insights to include her very own “7 Steps to Success.” At the conclusion of the summit, students incorporated Ms. Monson’s steps into the closing ceremony program.Congresswoman Johnson and the panelists concluded the summit by encouraging the group to continue serving as young leaders in their communities and to engage in dialogue to foster an understanding of cultural differences on how best to promote a climate for social change. To culminate this experience, students from the summit will participate in a service project at the Texas Discovery Gardens at the end of August.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
07.31.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Addresses Dallas Love Field Airport Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 31, 2012)— Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Dallas Love Field Airport will be receiving more than $11 million in grant funding from the Federal Aviation Administration’s Airport Improvement Program. $7.9 million will be used for improvement of the apron pavement, and $3.435 million will go towards taxiway rehabilitation and the installation of guidance signage. “Investment in infrastructure for our Nation’s airports is vital to the aviation industry,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “North Texans depend on Love Field’s convenient access to air travel, and I am pleased to announce such a substantial grant that will bring much needed improvements to Love Field.”The Airport Improvement Program (AIP) provides grants to public agencies for the planning, development, and improvement of public-use airports that are included in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems (NPIAS). The total grant award from the FAA is $11,334,277.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.31.2012	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, July 31, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced the Justice Department’s award of $1.034 million to the City of Dallas to improve criminal justice services. The award was made through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program, which is designed to provide federal guidance and assistance in crime prevention on the state and local levels.“I am delighted that the City of Dallas will receive this substantial grant from the U.S. Department of Justice. These funds will allow law enforcement to develop a comprehensive plan to keep our neighborhoods safe, and will be used to bolster existing law enforcement efforts in the area,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“Law enforcement are often the first responders to the scene, and risk their lives daily to protect the public. As a result of these funds, Dallas will now have greater resources to support criminal justice initiatives.”###
07.30.2012	President Lyndon B. Johnson signs Medicare into lawWashington, DC- (Tuesday, July 31, 2012)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement:“Forty seven years ago, Medicare and Medicaid were enacted into law to provide the elderly, the disabled, and less fortunate affordable healthcare insurance and access to medical services. Almost half a century ago, law makers made a promise to change the way vulnerable Americans received medical services by creating these programs, which have helped to extend the lives of an untold number of Americans. Medicare currently provides comprehensive health care coverage to over 3 million Texans, nearly 2.6 million of these individuals are seniors.Today, nearly 100 million Americans can sleep soundly at night knowing the security that Medicare and Medicaid provides them, their families, and future generations.Unfortunately, Republicans are working hard to implement laws that will make astronomical cuts to these programs that sustain millions of Americans. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues to stand firm against Republican efforts and to continue strengthening Medicare and Medicaid for all Americans.”
07.26.2012	Washington, DC-(Thursday, July 26, 2012) – Recently, Congresswoman Johnson hosted students from Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Mongolia, and Burma, as well students from St. Mary’s College during the Educating Tomorrow’s Global Women Leaders program. The initiative was hosted by St. Mary’s College, Congresswoman Johnson's alma mater, and the U.S. Department of State’s Women’s Leadership Institute to promote a better understanding of the U.S. abroad and to help develop future world leaders.“Too often important decisions that affect women, their families, and their societies are made without their voice in the deliberations. One of my passions is helping to increase the number of women leaders around the world. I believe that when women have a strong voice in government, there is a greater possibility of peace, increased co-operation, and an increased quality of life for women and children.”“That feeling in your gut that tells you to stand up and lead – do not ignore it. Women must come together to change the face of politics, and to use our voices to collectively make a lasting impact on issues that affect us.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.26.2012	Washington, DC-(Thursday, July 26, 2012) – Yesterday, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS) announced that in the first half of 2012, one million Medicare beneficiaries have saved $657 million due to the Affordable Care Act. “In a short time, seniors have already felt a direct benefit from the Affordable Care Act due to the closing of the Part D ‘donut hole’ coverage. More than 5.2 million seniors have saved $3.9 billion on prescription drugs since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. In Texas alone, patients have saved close to $235 million on prescription drugs,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“GOP efforts to repeal this law are short sighted and wrongheaded. This law is saving seniors money, and providing them with access to preventative care. Now that the American people are learning more about the law and starting to see savings, they are rejecting these partisan tactics.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.18.2012	Washington, DC- (Wednesday, July 18, 2012) – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced a $12 million grant award to the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). The project was selected on a competitive basis through the FY 2012 State of Good Repair Program. “I am very pleased that DART’s transit services are being recognized and that they’ve received this award. Maintaining and improving our public transportation systems is essential to providing mobility and supporting livable communities. Transit systems ease congestion and reduces emissions,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.The funds will be available to finance capital projects, and to replace, rehabilitate, and purchase buses and other equipment. The DART service area consists of 13 cities: Addison, Carrollton, Cockrell Hill, Dallas, Farmers Branch, Garland, Glenn Heights, Highland Park, Irving, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, and University Park.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.16.2012	Washington, DC-(Monday, July 16, 2012) –The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA)recently announced a $15,000 grant for the Friends of the Dallas Public Library through the agency’s “Big Read” initiative, which is designed to “restore reading to the center of American culture.” The funds will enable the library to host Big Read projects, where people can come together to explore literature from the United States and around the world. The Friends of the Dallas Public Library will use these funds for the reading of Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury.“Promoting literacy is absolutely critical for our youth, and the Big Read initiative will help to spur interest among our Nation’s children and their families,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am pleased to see these funds going towards such an important cause here in Dallas.”The NEA Big Read grant will go to 78 organizations across 30 states, totaling $1 million.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.16.2012	Washington, DC-(Monday, July 16, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s legislation, the Advancing Innovative Manufacturing Act of 2012 (“AIM Act”), was selected by House Leadership as part of the Make It In America agenda. The Make It In America plan supports job creation by encouraging businesses to make products and innovate in the US and sell it to the world. The AIM Act would help accelerate research, development, and innovation in advanced manufacturing and improve the competitiveness of American manufacturers.“If we want the U.S. to hold on to its manufacturing edge, then we need to maintain the capacity to manufacture new and innovative products here at home. The key to maintaining this capacity is through strategic investments in advanced manufacturing research, development, and education,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“The AIM Act, which I introduced earlier this month along with my Democratic colleagues on the Science Committee, makes the investments necessary to spur innovation and increase the competitiveness of American manufacturers.”With millions of Americans out of work, keyDemocratic lawmakers came together to emphasize the importance of bringing more attention to job creation in America. Republican leaders have so far resisted most of the Democrats' job-creation proposals.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.12.2012	Congresswoman Johnson with Key Leaders of Links, Inc.Washington, D.C. — (Thursday, July 12, 2011) – Recently, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the Links, Inc. 2012 Co-Founders Award for National Trends and Services. The National Trends and Services Award honors an individual every year who has made significant contributions to reducing barriers to services through advocacy and education. “It is a great honor to receive this award from the Links, Inc. Like so many in the Links, I have devoted my life’s work to service; first as a registered nurse, then as a member of the Texas legislature, and now in my 20th year in the United States Congress representing the 30th District of Texas. As Links members, it is our duty to empower our communities, and our best weapon is through education – educating our youth on the democratic process and the importance of voting, and educating future generations so that they may have the tools and resources to achieve success,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson was honored for her tireless work to promote minority participation and excellence in Science, Technology, Education, and Mathematics (STEM), and raising awareness on the importance of voting and combating state Voter ID laws that disenfranchise minority communities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.10.2012	Washington, DC-(Tuesday, July 10, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson ,the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness, and the National Coalition for the Homeless, hosted a briefing on violence against the homeless. The goal of the briefing was to raise awareness about the violence facing homeless men, women, children, veterans, elderly, and the disabled.“Protecting some of the most vulnerable people in this Nation should be a top priority of this Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Raising awareness is just one component of finding a comprehensive solution to that not only protects the homeless from violence, but also reduces the total number of people living on the streets.”The panel included experts from the National Law Center on Homelessness & Poverty, law enforcement, a former victim of violence.Congresswoman Johnson is one of four co-founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Homelessness. Congresswoman Johnson has also authored legislation to include hate crimes against homeless individuals in the uniform hate crimes statistics collected by the Department of Justice. The bill has been referred to the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
06.28.2012	Washington, DC-(Thursday, June 28, 2012)— Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement:“The GOP-led Congress voted 255 to 67 to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for failing to cooperate with the gun tracking operation “Fast and Furious.” No cabinet member has ever been held in contempt in the entire history of the United States Congress . This afternoon’s vote was nothing more than a politically-charged effort to embarrass the Administration in the midst of a contentious election. The Attorney General has already submitted nearly 8,000 documents to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and has demonstrated a continued willingness to cooperate with the Oversight Committee in its investigation.Unfortunately, House Republicans do not share the willingness to cooperate, and instead have resorted to radical and unprecedented measures in order to achieve their ulterior motive. Republicans efforts have been so flawed that Democratic members of the Oversight Committee have identified one hundred errors, omissions, and mischaracterizations in the contempt resolution itself and the corresponding Committee report.We cannot allow the oversight role of Congress and the powers at its disposal, to be seized for political gain. For the sake of the integrity of our democracy and this institution, we must resist efforts to undermine the legitimate use of Congressional power; we owe nothing less to the American people. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.28.2012	Washington, DC— (Thursday, June 28, 2012) – The Department of Transportation announced a $1.239 million grant for the Dallas Area Rapid Transit System (DART) through the agency’s Veterans Transportation and Community Living Initiative Program. This competitively-awarded grant will offer opportunities to connect veterans to valuable services through a single, consolidated repository of information. “I applaud DART’s efforts to successfully pursue this grant. This effort, funded in part by DART and the North Central Texas Council of Governments, exemplifies how the North Texas region cares about our veterans, and has a long-range vision for coordination of community transportation resources,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. "We appreciate Congresswoman Johnson's continued support and the opportunity to find new ways to support veterans," stated Gary Thomas , President/Executive Director of Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART).The DART service area consists of 13 cities: Addison, Carrollton, Cockrell Hill, Dallas, Farmers Branch, Garland, Glenn Heights, Highland Park, Irving, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, and University Park.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.28.2012	Washington, DC-(Thursday, June 28, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement today after the Supreme Court ruled the Affordable Care Act constitutional:“ The Supreme Court ruling is a victory for the American people and a defining moment for our country. The Affordable Care Act is already benefiting Texans. In the Act’s first year alone, Texans saved more than $1.3 million in health care costs, an average of $639.36 per beneficiary. In my district, 18,000 children and 80,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. By 2014, 181,000 residents who now lack health care coverage will have access to affordable coverage for the first time, and everyone in the 30th district will be protected from discrimination by insurers based on a preexisting health condition. Texas has the highest number of uninsured in the entire Nation. With full implementation of the Affordable Care Act, Texas will hopefully no longer lead the Nation in uninsured individuals. As a non-practicing registered nurse, I understand first-hand how important this ruling is to women, children, families and seniors. Americans will benefit from lower health care and prescription drug costs, insurance companies will be held accountable, and millions of Americans will have the opportunity to receive quality and affordable health care. It has taken most of my lifetime for the enactment of a comprehensive and inclusive form of health care. I am proud to stand with my colleagues and the President to support a system that provides security, accountability, and peace of mind to the people whom we serve. The American people now have the security of knowing that their health care system has the ability to move forward, by providing this right for all and not for the select few.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.27.2012	Washington, DC- (Wednesday, June 27, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of National HIV Testing Day:“Today is an important day to take charge of your health. I want to encourage my constituents to participate in the free testing events and awareness campaigns surrounding National HIV Testing Day. Nearly 20 percent of the 1 million people living with HIV do not know they’re infected. Knowing your status is extremely important to one’s health, because early diagnosis and treatment can help save lives. If you’re HIV negative, it is crucial that you remain that way. For more information about events and testing resources, please visit https://hivtest.cdc.gov/Default.aspx to find a site near you. Get tested, know your status, and protect yourself.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.08.2012	Congresswoman Johnson hosted a powerful discussion with key leaders in the peace community Washington, D.C. — (Friday, June 8, 2011) – On Wednesday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a Roundtable Discussion on the U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security. The Roundtable Discussion was held in conjunction with the Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom, U.S. Section and Congressman Russ Carnahan (D-MO). Congresswoman Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Congresswoman Susan Davis (D-CA) were also in attendance to support the initiative. The program focused on the role of women in peace-building and conflict prevention.“It is a pleasure to have the Honorable Melanne Verveer, the first ever U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues, serve as our keynote speaker. We are thankful for her leadership and commitment to the political, economic, and social advancement of women around the world,” noted Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.“This Roundtable Discussion is a part of my women’s peace initiative A World of Women for World Peace. Through A World of Women for World Peace, I have worked to bring attention to the women who are at the forefront of the peace movement. Whether meeting with international delegations or hosting events on Capitol Hill, I hope to bring peaceful conflict resolution to the center of our dialogue on foreign policy. The goal for today’s discussion is to explore ways in which my colleagues can work with the Administration to best support implementation of the National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security.”The National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security represents a government-wide effort to protect women and girls from gender-based violence, and to ensure women and girls have equitable access to humanitarian assistance during crises and disasters.“Women must have a seat at the table when developing and executing plans for sustainable peace. The Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND) looks forward to working with Congresswoman Johnson, Congressman Carnahan, Ambassador Verveer, WILPF, and other Congressional and community leaders, to push for funding and legislative efforts that support the implementation of this plan to promote women, peace and security, stated Susan Shaer,” Executive Director of WAND and moderator of the Roundtable.Panelists included: The Honorable Melanne Verveer, U.S. Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women’s Issues; Tanya Henderson and Laura Roskos, Women’s International League for Peace and Freedom, U.S. Section; Susan Shaer (Moderator), Women’s Action for New Directions; Sanam Anderlini, International Civil society Action Network; Ambassador Swanee Hunt.See pictures of the event here###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.25.2012	New Video Message from Congresswoman Johnson2012 Memorial Day“ Honoring Our Veterans ” Washington, DC- (Friday, May 25, 2012) — Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 28, 2012:“On this Memorial Day, we honor the sacrifices of the servicemen and women of America’s Armed Forces who have fought and died to defend our freedom. Members of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard have molded America into the great Nation that it is today. I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to the brave Americans in uniform and recognize the families of our fallen. It is those families who have served as the backbone for America – remaining strong and providing the memories of the fallen in our hearts.For the servicemen and women that are fortunate enough to return home, we must continue to uphold our promise to these soldiers by ensuring that benefits and healthcare services are provided to them and their families. Every man and woman that makes it home from active service is a veteran, and we must continue to treat them with the honor and respect that they have earned. I would like to encourage our Nation’s veterans to participate in the Veteran’s History Project, which was created by the United States Congress to collect, preserve, and share the stories of American wartime veterans, so that future generations could hear about their service directly from those who served. To date, the Veterans History Project holds over 80,000 individual collections, and is the largest oral history project in the Nation. I invite you to be part of this critical mission to preserve the stories of our Armed Forces, by going to the website www.LOC.gov/Vets. As we reflect this Memorial Day, I ask that my constituents and Americans of this great country to take a moment and thank our veterans and active duty members for their unwavering service.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.24.2012	Washington, DC- (Wednesday, May 23, 2012) — Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, the Dallas Food Planning Association , and the Texas Hunger Initiative have formed a steering committee to tackle local hunger issues. The steering committee consists of elected officials, government agencies, corporations, non-profit organizations, faith-based community leaders, and local residents. “Nearly half a million Dallas County residents are considered food insecure because they don’t have regular access to healthy nutritious meals. It is my top priority to address local hunger issues, and to help combat food insecurities in Dallas. The steering committee will bring community stakeholders from all sectors to the table by addressing this critical issue in Dallas through innovative solutions,” stated Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.“Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s leadership in forming the steering committee has been invaluable in helping to bring our community together to combat hunger in Dallas. There is a lot of synergy around the topic of food access in Dallas; the existence of an organization like the Dallas Food Planning Association, which organizes our community’s efforts and resources to eradicate hunger in our county, is a necessity,” stated Sonia White, Director of Good In Deed and member of the steering committee. The steering committee is currently developing a plan to address the most pressing local hunger issues by focusing on:· Increasing access to federally funded nutrition programs to those who qualify· Growing and providing access to healthy food· Increasing access to non-federally funded nutrition programs· Decreasing the number of food deserts and food swamps The steering committee was formed as a result of the successful “Texas No Kid Hungry Dallas Summit” held last year to help eradicate hunger through policy and education. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.22.2012	test
05.17.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, May 17, 2012) – Yesterday, the GOP controlled House voted in favor of H.R. 4970, the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (VAWA), by a vote of 222 to 204. Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement:“It is with great disappointment that the House voted for this measure in its currently flawed form, and that something so important as this has been politicized. The Violence Against Women Act that was considered yesterday is not of the same caliber of legislation as authorized in previous congresses, nor was it drafted with the same bipartisan considerations or support. H.R. 4970 is identical to previous reauthorizations in title only, and will do tremendous damage to the established programs for battered women seeking justice or protection from their abusers.The issue of defending and caring for battered or abused women should remain a non-partisan issue. Instead, this legislation was seized in order to promote a partisan agenda of excluding immigrants, LGBT individuals, and Native Americans, from protections afforded by the government.I have always supported programs in the past that have effectively provided victims with the tools they needed to escape their abusers. However, I voted against H.R. 4970 because it falls drastically short of the original intent of the law, and represents an attack on women that no democratic society should ever have to endure.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.17.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, May 17, 2012) – This week, Reading Is Fundamental (RIF) awarded Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson for her commitment to RIF’s mission, children’s literacy, and recognizing the incredible effect books can have in a child’s life. The event held by RIF was to honor her leadership on behalf of underserved children and families.Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement in response to the award, “Reading Is Fundamental has a significant impact in the 30th District and across the state of Texas. This program is a vital tool in ensuring underserved youth have access to books and literacy resources, encouraging parents to read to their kids, and working to make reading fun and a part of everyday life.”“For the past ten years, I’ve been an advocate for supporting legislation geared toward promoting children’s priorities on behalf of children’s literacy, including leading the way for a new literacy grant program called the Department of Education’s Innovative Approaches to Literacy program. “Thank you to Reading Is Fundamental for recognizing my work in improving the literacy among our Nation’s children, and for the good work they do.”Last year, RIF distributed nearly 175,000 books to 50,000 at risk children in the 30thCongressional District of Texas. In the state of Texas alone, RIF programs served more than half a million children, distributing nearly two million books to children that otherwise could not afford them.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.14.2012	Washington, DC- (Monday, May 14, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released a statement acknowledging the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) selection of Austin, Texas to receive non-stop service to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA). “I am pleased that Southwest Airlines will now be offering service from Austin, Texas to Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA). The order will provide daily non-stop round trip flights from DCA to Texas through Southwest Airlines. This news is excellent for the state of Texas, as I believe this will help boost tourism and economic development in our region. Southwest Airlines is an important economic staple to our community.“Today’s announcement will mean new, convenient, low-fare service between Washington, DC and Austin,” U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said. “Along with the other new services from Reagan National, we can look forward to increased competition for airlines serving our nation’s capital, which can lead to lower fares for consumers.”Congresswoman Johnson supported H.R. 658, the Federal Aviation Administration Modernization and Reform Act of 2012, which allows for increased direct access to Washington National Airport by adding additional round-trip flights.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.10.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Recognizes Congressional Art Competition Winner Christian Alexander Gietema Washington, DC- (Thursday, May 10, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson announced that Christian Alexander Gietema, a sophomore student at Booker T. Washington High School, was chosen as the winner of this year’s Congressional Art Competition for the 30th Congressional District of Texas. This year’s winning piece was entitled Broken Record Conversation.“I am very impressed with the artistic abilities and talents that come from the high school students in the 30th District. I congratulate Christian and I’m looking forward to seeing his winning piece hung in the halls of the Capitol. The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful way to highlight the importance of the arts and to promote self-expression. I appreciate all of those who participated in this year’s competition,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.The annual art competition offers the opportunity for one high school student from participating Congressional Districts to have their art work hung in the Cannon Tunnel in the United States Capitol for the next year. The winner will now have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C.and join other winners from across the country for a special ceremony to recognize their art work.The Congressional Art Competition is now in its 30th year and was started with the goal of providing recognition for the hard work and artistic abilities of our country’s young talent.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
05.09.2012	Washington, DC- (Wednesday, May 9, 2012)–Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement:“I’m very pleased that the North Texas Fair Housing Center will receive $261,589 in a Fair Housing Organization Initiative (FHOI) grant, awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). This grant will help ensure that our fair housing laws are adequately enforced. Without enforcement, families across Texas could be left stranded without access to equal housing opportunities. The FHOI grant will bolster our ability to enforce important laws, and effectively expand access to housing in underserved areas throughout District 30.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
05.08.2012	Washington, DC- (Tuesday, May 8, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today from the House Floor:“National Nurses Week is dedicated to acknowledging the hard work, patience, and service that our nurses provide. As the first registered nurse in Congress, I know first-hand how important healthcare professionals are in enhancing our daily lives. That is why I introduced H. Res. 644 to support the ideals and goals of National Nurses Week. Nurses need recognition for their hard work all year long.For the 12th time in 13 years, nursing ranked first in a Gallup survey for honesty and ethical standards in 2011. While our country shifts towards a nationwide focus on prevention and promotion, I believe it is the nurses who should stand at the forefront of this reformation. Nurses save lives, provide critical care, and advocate on behalf of their patients 52 weeks a year; they deserve more than one week of recognition for their tireless work in healthcare. This week, remember to thank a nurse for the admirable and selfless contributions they make to the community.”The Resolution was introduced with large bi-partisan support, including 62 original cosponsors.National Nurses Week is a week for Americans to recognize nurses. It ends each year on May 12th, the birthday of Florence Nightingale, founder of modern nursing. The resolution surrounding National Nurses Week is sponsored by the American Nurses Association (ANA) and the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN).###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
05.05.2012	Washington, DC- (Friday, May 4, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Cinco de Mayo:“Cinco de Mayo marks a historic day when we come together and celebrate the significant contributions that Mexican-Americans, and all Hispanics have made to help strengthen our country. This day recognizes the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862, 150 years ago. The contributions of Hispanics throughout America’s history are a source of pride to our Nation.Latinos are a fast growing minority group with 51 million Hispanics living in the United States – 63 percent of which are of Mexican descent. Hispanics have the largest minority-owned business community, and Latino workers continue to drive the growth of the labor force. Democrats are fighting to create jobs for Hispanic men and women, to make college more affordable for Hispanic young people, to protect Social Security and Medicare for the millions of Hispanic seniors who rely on these programs. I will continue working with my colleagues to preserve the American dream for all Americans, including Hispanics, by building upon the pillars that have always made our economy strong— small businesses, entrepreneurs, and a thriving middle class,” stated Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.04.2012	From left to right: DFW Fire Chief Brian McKinney, DFW Airport CEO Jeffrey P. Fegan, Congresswoman Johnson, Kevin Solco - Airports Division Manager - FAA Southwest, DFW Vice President for Public Safety Alan Black, and Executive Vice President for Operations James Crites. Washington, DC- (Friday, March 4, 2012) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson offered remarks to congratulate the new Airbus A380 Mockup at the DFW Fire Training Research Center (FTRC), where it will be used for live fire training. The DFW Fire Training Research Center is in the midst of a $20 million renovation to be completed at the end of 2012.“I'm delighted that the FAA has made the decision to help fund this facility. It means a great deal to us. It means that firefighters from all over can learn the skills right here to help them to save lives,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.In 2010, Congresswoman Johnson helped secure a $3 million Airport Improvement Program (AIP) grant from the Federal Aviation Administration to provide innovative training strategies and models.The FTRC offers Aircraft Rescue Firefighting (ARFF) in a unique environment that is modeled on the actual conditions a firefighter would encounter in responding to an emergency. Since 1995, the FTRC has served firefighters from all over the world with variety course offerings such as aircraft and structural fire suppression, incident management, ARFF emergency vehicle operations.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.01.2012	Washington, DC- (Tuesday, May 1, 2012) — Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement:“I’m very disappointed to learn that the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled to exclude Planned Parenthood from the Women’s Health Program in Texas. Planned Parenthood is a vital resource for cancer detections and preventative healthcare screenings. Over 100,000 low-income women in our state will lose their access to healthcare in light of this decision. This news is devastating and sad for the women in Texas. Despite this ruling, I will continue working on providing quality health care for women in Texas.” Click the following link to view all pictures from the Peace Conference : https://www.facebook.com/media/set/?set=a.10150799905807068.438121.84096022067&type=1 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.30.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Offers Remarks at Peace Conference in DallasWashington, DC- (Monday, April 30, 2012) — Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her 12th annual “A World of Women for World Peace” peace conference on Saturday, April 28th , at the Trammell & Margaret Crow Collection of Asian Art. Congresswomen Corrine Brown of Florida, Donna Edwards of Maryland and Sheila Jackson Lee of Houston were in attendance to support the conference.“I began my initiative, “A World of Women for World Peace,” after I learned about the plight of child soldiers. No mother who took pains to give birth and raise her child,would want to see that child destroyed in fruitless violence,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. “I hope to make peaceful conflict resolution a central part of our dialogue on foreign policy.”This year’s theme was Women, Technology, & Peacebuilding andthe dialogue centered on how technology can be used to lift a collective voice in support of peace and empowerment of women around the world. The conference included over 100 activists from the peace community and political arena. The distinguished panelists explored how women in conflict and post-conflict zones have used social media as a tool of empowerment for political and social change.Panelists included: Ana Cristina Reymundo, American Airlines Nexos (Moderator); Vivienne O’Connor, United States Institute of Peace; Dahlia Scheindlin, Huffington Post (Via Skype); Linda Higdon, Founder of the Global Room for Women; Libby Lenkinski , Association for Civil Rights in Israel (Via Skype); Farzaneh Milani, University of Virginia; Mitra Razavi, Peace Activist.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.26.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, April 26, 2012) — Yesterday Congresswoman Johnson was named as a conferee to the Transportation Reauthorization bill. As conferee, she will work with other House and Senate conferees to produce legislation that will ultimately be sent to the President for signature.Congresswoman Johnson was selected for the conference because of her position as Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, which has jurisdiction over the research and development activities of the Department of Transportation, as well as surface and water transportation research, development, and demonstration programs. She is also the most senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.Congresswoman Johnson noted, “I was pleased to be selected as a conferee. Our roads and bridges are in desperate need of repair. I have served on the Transportation Committee for 20 years, and know how critical it is for state DOTs, transit agencies, and local municipalities to have a long-term transportation authorization in place in order to plan infrastructure projects. I will use my role as conferee to advocate for the transportation policies that work for my district, and for Texas as a whole.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.25.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Offered Remarks to Leaders in the STEM Community Washington, DC- (Wednesday, April 25, 2012) — Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc. (NACME) held a press conference to introduce the "Broadening Participation in STEM Education Act.”Congresswoman Johnson offered the following remarks: “I would like to give a special thanks to Dr. Irving McPhail, President and CEO of NACME, for his vision and extraordinary leadership on these issues. Just past my 70th birthday, I became the first African American and first female Ranking Member on the House committee on Science, Space and Technology.For 20 years, I have worked to ensure that diversity provisions in legislation that come before the Science committee are as strong as possible. I want to reiterate my commitment to broadening participation in STEM for all, which has been one of my top priorities as a Member of Congress.I want to thank the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the American Society for Engineering Education, the American Association for University Women and the Society of Women Engineers, who have endorsed this legislation and hopefully we can get it moving.”The “Broadening Participation in STEM Education Act” would authorize the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to award grants to increase the number of students from underrepresented minority groups receiving degrees in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). The bill would also expand the number of faculty members from underrepresented minority groups at colleges and universities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.19.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Offers Remarks at the 17th Annual Women Ambassadors Conference Washington, DC- (Thursday, April 19, 2012) — Yesterday, Congresswoman Johnson hosted the 17th Annual Women Ambassadors Conference. The conference was held in conjunction with Howard University and the Women Ambassadors Foundation, and focused on the role of women in peacemaking efforts, international diplomatic challenges, and conflict resolution.“When President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf of Liberia was running for office , I asked if she would eliminate child soldiers under her regime, if she won. As President she ended the practice of using children to wage war in Liberia. Women ambassadors and women leaders are necessary and essential principals towards ending war causalities and creating peace building initiatives across the globe. No mother raises a child only to be killed in battle, and women have a particular understanding of the atrocities of war and negotiating peaceful resolutions,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. Congresswoman Johnson also noted, “We need to find alternatives to war, learn to respect each other’s differences, and talk through conflicts to achieve resolutions.”This year’s theme was “People, Democracy, and Resources in a World in Transition.” Women Ambassadors from Zambia, Senegal, Ecuador, Finland, as well as a representative from the U.S. Department of State participated in the panel discussions.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.19.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, April 19, 2012) Yesterday, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the National Financial Literacy Act of 2012. The bill would require that federal financial supervisory agencies establish minimum standards for community-based financial literacy programs in order to be considered a qualified community-based financial literacy program. The bill would also allow a tax credit to small businesses for 35% of the expenses paid or incurred for providing qualified continuing financial education to their employees. “As we have seen in the recent economic downtown, financial literacy is essential to preserving the economic well being of individuals and families. I am introducing this critical legislation in order promote increased understanding and awareness of the consequences of financial decision making,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“By increasing financial literacy, we contribute to economic stability in the U.S. and provide the needed tools for the middle class to thrive, stated Congresswoman Johnson.” SEE THE FULL BILL HERE : H.R. 4394 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.17.2012	Washington, DC- (Tuesday, April 17, 2012) – On Tax Day,Congresswoman Johnson releases the following statement on the Buffett Rule and how we can strengthen the economy for all Americans:“It’s that time of year again which most Americans dread, Tax Day. Middle class Americans are being asked to pay a higher tax rate than millionaires and billionaires. This is an unfair burden on the middle class, which is why I support the Buffett Rule. The Buffett Rule seeks to reverse the notion that the tax code only works for the wealthy.For far too long, the tax code has benefited the wealthiest Americans, while middle class families have struggled. It is time for Congress to work together to address this injustice, strengthen our middle class, and rebuild our economy. The Buffett Rule will help us get there.”The Buffett Rule was named after billionaire Warren Buffett, whose secretary pays a higher tax rate than he does. Congresswoman Johnson is a co-sponsor of the Buffett Rule, H.R. 3903 "Paying a Fair Share Act."###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.06.2012	Washington, DC- (Friday, April 6, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement after touring Lancaster and the surrounding areas affected by North Texas tornadoes:“ It was reported that 13 tornadoes hit the North Texas region on Tuesday, April 3. Hundreds of structures and homes were destroyed, but fortunately no lives were taken during this natural disaster. I applaud the first responders who helped accelerate the response process and provided quick assistance to those in need. The Red Cross, Salvation Army, United Way of Texas, and Volunteer Center of North Texas are currently providing relief assistance. My thoughts are with all those in North Texas who were affected by these devastating storms and tornadoes.My office continues to stand by for any inquiries or questions related to the tornado aftermath. “###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.03.2012	Washington, DC- (Tuesday, April 3, 2012) – Today, the Department of Transportation Federal Transit Administration announced an $81,606,000 grant for the Dallas Area Rapid Transit System (DART). This grant is for the design and construction of the Dallas Northwest and Southeast Light Rail Extension project. “This is wonderful news for DART and the Dallas community. DART is a significant asset to our area and thousands of people rely on this stateoftheart transportation to connect them to various routes in North Texas every day,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. “This grant will help spur economic development in our community. The expansion of the Green Line is expected to provide $5.6 billion in economic impact and help create 48,000 long-term jobs in the North Texas region.”The grant is part of the $700 million Full Funding Grant Agreement for the Green Line that DART was awarded by the Federal Transit Administration in 2006. The 28-mile Green Line connects parts of South Dallas and Pleasant Grove to downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Dallas Market Center, six medical centers including Parkland Hospital, Love Field airport, and the cities of Farmers Branch and Carrollton. The Green Line was the longest light rail project in North America, and employed more than 2,200 workers daily. This project includes 16 stations, 2,700 parking spaces, and 21-mile light rail track. This funding is being used to fund purchase of LRT vehicles, guideway & track, Right-of-Way acquisition, stations, support facilities and systems work and materials. The DART service area consists of 13 cities: Addison, Carrollton, Cockrell Hill, Dallas, Farmers Branch, Garland, Glenn Heights, Highland Park, Irving, Plano, Richardson, Rowlett, and University Park.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.29.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, March 29, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement:“I oppose the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012, because it represents a 3 month extension to the bill as opposed to a long-term reauthorization. States and municipalities need time to adequately plan their transportation projects, and these piecemeal extensions will not offer the certainty to see these projects through.It has been more than a month since House Republicans reported their seriously flawed bill, and they do not have the votes to pass it. I have served on the Transportation Committee for 20 years, and up until now, the committee has worked in a bipartisan fashion to produce a sound and commonsense transportation policy. Instead of voting on another extension, we should be considering the bipartisan Senate transportation bill. While I would prefer a longer reauthorization, the 2-year bipartisan Senate bill will provide the kind of investment in infrastructure and job creation that is desperately needed.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.29.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, March 29, 2012) –Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement on the final passage of the House Republican budget plan that would end the Medicare guarantee and would provide huge tax cuts for the wealthy:“Today, House Republicans passed their budget resolution, commonly known as the Ryan plan. This plan would do damage to our current economy by ending the Medicare guarantee, raising seniors’ health care costs, and offering almost a $400,000 tax break to millionaires. Never have the GOP’s priorities been more clear. The Republicans’ budget stands in stark contrast to an alternative plan supported by the Democratic Members of Congress, which seeks to preserve Medicare, foster economic growth, and protect the middle class.Under the GOP budget, 9.6 million students would see their Pell Grants cut in 2012. This budget would result in $430 million in cuts to the Head Start program, with 60,000 low-income children losing access to early childhood education. These are the Republicans’ objectives: to provide huge tax breaks for the wealthy, balanced on the backs of working Americans, the elderly, and the poor. House Democrats offered a plan that would provide tax breaks for the middle class, create jobs, and build a stronger economy for the future. Fortunately, this plan is a non-starter in the Senate, and I am sure that the GOP will be hearing from seniors throughout this country who oppose the Ryan plan. I will continue to oppose these sorts of drastic cuts outlined in the Ryan plan, and will work with my colleagues to advance legislation that protects the American Dream and gets our country back on track. ” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.29.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, March 29, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement:“I’m very pleased DART will be receiving a $12 million grant from the Federal Transit Administration’s State of Good Repair program. This grant was awarded on a competitive basis, highlighting how DART is one of the premier transit systems in the country. These funds will be used to replace existing buses, making way for increased ridership and better fuel efficiency.Many in the Dallas community rely heavily on DART for their daily transportation. It is critical that we pursue a multi-modal approach to our transportation needs. Transit systems help relieve congestion and provide thousands of people in Dallas a convenient way to get to and from work every day.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.28.2012	Congresswoman Johnson Receives Distinguished Service Award from the DOE’s Associate Deputy Secretary Melvin Williams Washington, DC- (Wednesday, March 28, 2012) – On March 22, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, the first female Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology served as the keynote speaker at the Department of Energy’s event celebrating Women’s History Month. Congresswoman Johnson discussed the importance of women’s education in the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics fields (STEM).“Women continue to be under-represented in most STEM fields and we must do more to create opportunities to educate and retain them, especially at the university and faculty level. America cannot afford to lose one-half of its brain power,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson was awarded the Distinguished Service Award for her efforts over the years in promoting STEM education, and her support of legislation that has contributed towards supporting the advancement for women in this field.“Thank you to the Department of Energy for recognizing my work in STEM and for your hard work and dedication to this cause. I look forward to continuing our work together so that we can achieve our common goals,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The Distinguished Service Award is a prestigious honor that is awarded based on merit and achievement.Video Recap of the event >> https://youtu.be/8v2gLjc9GiY ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.27.2012	Washington, DC- (Monday, March 26, 2012) – Today, the Departments of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Veterans Affairs (VA) announced grant awards for their Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH). HUD-VASH combines Housing Choice Voucher rental assistance for homeless Veterans with case management and clinical services provided by the VA. This program will supply permanent housing and case management for more than 10,000 homeless veterans.“There is no reason that any person should be living on the streets, no less our servicemen and women. HUD-VASH will provide critical support for our veterans, who have selflessly put their lives at risk in the defense of our Nation and our freedom,” stated Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.The Housing Authority of the City of Dallas was awarded $629,950.00 for these purposes. Nationwide, $72.6 million will be awarded to public housing agencies in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. This is the first of two rounds of the 2012 HUD-VASH funding.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.23.2012	Washington, DC- (Friday, March 23, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the second anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, which is observed today:“In the two short years since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act, there have been historic advancements in our Nation’s health care system. With this legislation, young adults have access to their parents’ health care coverage, seniors have access to free annual wellness visits, small business employers can receive tax benefits to provide health insurance for their employees, and patients with pre-existing conditions will be covered in 2014. Insurance companies will no longer be able to terminate women’s coverage when they get sick or pregnant, and seniors have more options to receive care.Under the Affordable Care Act, 86 million Americans are receiving free preventive services, such as check-ups and cancer screenings. Seniors in the “donut hole” have saved $2.1 billion on prescription drugs, an average of $604 per senior. Texans are saving more than $1.3 million in health care costs (an average of $639.36 per beneficiary), and 210,700 Texans are directly saving on their Medicare prescriptions. As a registered nurse, I understand how critical these benefits are. Patients now have more freedom and control over their health care choices than ever before.As we celebrate the anniversary of the Affordable Care Act this week, we should reflect on the progress made in this country and acknowledge how this legislation has been able to provide health care to millions of Americans.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.21.2012	Washington, DC- (Wednesday, March 21, 2012) – On Monday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, met with students at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center in Dallas to encourage students to pursue their studies in math and science.Created nine years ago by the University of Texas at Dallas, the Eddie Bernice Johnson Lecture Series was named in honor of Congresswoman Johnson to expose Dallas-area high school students to future career opportunities in the math and sciences. Congresswoman Johnson introduced special guest John Manahan,Special Assistant to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan.“The most important aspect in keeping America globally competitive is the development of our young scientists. For those of you who continue your pursuits in math and science, you have the opportunity to be our next generation of global leaders,” remarked Congresswoman Johnson. “I invited John Manahan here today so that he can outline a practical and tangible plan on how to get there. I encourage you all to keep your goals in mind and strive towards success.”John Manahan provided insight into his career in the military and his experience as a nuclear expert. He emphasized the key to succeeding in the science and math fields is to refine one’s problem solving skills. Dr. Bruce Gnade of the University of Texas at Dallas, Principals Alice Black and Jovan Wells of Townview Magnet Center, also addressed the students.Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet Center is one of the most diverse schools in the Dallas area. The school has received recognition at the state and national levels as one of America’s top high schools.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.19.2012	Washington, DC- (Monday, March 19, 2012) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement:“This is a sad time for women in Texas. Despite a warning from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Governor Perry has elected to move forward with a State rule that restricts freedom of choice of health care providers for women enrolled in the Texas Medicaid Women’s Health Program. Now, because of petty partisanship, 130,000 women in Texas are losing their access to preventative health care, and Texas is losing $40 million in federal funding. These funds provide lifesaving treatments to women who would otherwise not have access. Because of the Governor’s reckless actions, there are women who simply will not receive the care they need, and illnesses like breast and cervical cancer will go undetected.The Women’s Health Program was passed by the Texas legislature with bipartisan support, and was implemented during President George W. Bush’s time in office. This is not about abortion; this is purely about politics. Planned Parenthood clinics that are licensed providers of abortion care are separate, self pay entities that are not affected by policy changes in the Texas Women’s Health Program. Planned Parenthood is the single largest provider of care within the TexasWomen’s Health Program.Despite these obstacles, I will continue to fight for increased access to quality health care for women in Texas.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.19.2012	Washington, DC- (Monday, March 19, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on Governor Rick Perry’s Decision to halt funding for the Texas Medicaid Women’s Health Program:“This is a sad time for women in Texas. Despite a warning from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Governor Perry has elected to move forward with a State rule that restricts freedom of choice of health care providers for women enrolled in the Texas Medicaid Women’s Health Program. Now, because of petty partisanship, 130,000 women in Texas are losing their access to preventative health care, and Texas is losing $40 million in federal funding. These funds provide lifesaving treatments to women who would otherwise not have access. Because of the Governor’s reckless actions, there are women who simply will not receive the care they need, and illnesses like breast and cervical cancer will go undetected.The Women’s Health Program was passed by the Texas legislature with bipartisan support, and was implemented during President George W. Bush’s time in office. This is not about abortion; Planned Parenthood clinics that are licensed providers of abortion care are separate, self pay entities that are not affected by policy changes in the Texas Women’s Health Program. Planned Parenthood is the single largest provider of care within the Texas Women’s Health Program. This is purely about politics. Shame on Governor Perry.Despite these obstacles, I will continue to fight for increased access to quality health care for women in Texas.”
03.13.2012	Washington, DC- (Tuesday, March 13, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement:“Yesterday, the Department of Justice rightfully rejected a Texas state law that required voters to show photo identification before voting at the polls. The U.S. Department of Justice objected to Sections 9 and 14 of Texas Senate Bill 14 (SB 14) for not meeting its burden under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, and failing to demonstrate that the law will not have a discriminatory effect on minority voters. Sections 9 requires a valid form of photo identification to be presented before casting a ballot. Section 14 goes further to define acceptable forms of identification and SB 14 increases the penalties for any violations of these mandates. I have been very vocal in my opposition to SB 14 on the grounds of it being discriminatory and unjust. Ultimately, this law would have disenfranchised minority voters, college students, seniors and low income voters. Hispanic voters would have been impacted the most, leaving more than 300,000 Texas Hispanic voters out of the election process. I will stand with Americans who believe suppression of any voting rights particularly the elderly, minorities and youths are unfair. For that reason, I applaud the Justice Department’s decision to defend voter rights in Texas.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris
03.08.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, March 8, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson addressed national, state, and local transportation policy makers at the 5th Annual Transportation and Infrastructure Convention. Congresswoman Johnson focused her remarks on the importance of maintaining and innovating our current transportation infrastructure in order to maintain the U.S.’s competitive edge. “While our Interstate System is the greatest public works project in history, decades of use and ‘wear and tear’ have taken a toll, and we now have a system that is not only in great need of repair, but is incapable of accommodating the congestion and transportation needs of the 21st century. In order to maintain our Nation’s competitive edge, we need to have the kind of infrastructure and multi-modal transportation system that can move goods and people efficiently and safely. Our economic output and growth as a Nation depends on it,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson also spoke about the need for innovation in both the vision and the financing of infrastructure projects. “The current Highway Trust Fund is an insufficient source for addressing our infrastructure needs, and we need to think outside the box in terms of coming up with new ways to fund infrastructure,” noted Congresswoman Johnson.The 5th Annual Transportation and Infrastructure Convention is a forum for state and local officials and transportation experts to interact with national leaders to shape national transportation and infrastructure policy.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.08.2012	Washington, DC- (Thursday, March 8, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of International Women’s Day:“Today marks the 101st anniversary of International Women’s Day. On this day, we recognize the extraordinary contributions women have made to our country and around the world. In the U.S., women now represent nearly half of our workforce, and on a global level, women are taking over leadership positions that were formerly held solely by men.To commemorate this day, I, along with several of my colleagues and the U.S. Department of State hosted an International Women’s Day event to honor ten women who have shown tremendous bravery in advocating for women’s rights. These women, who will receive the Secretary of State’s Award for International Women of Courage today, have put the welfare of others before their own, all for the advancement of peace, equality, and human rights for all.Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have been a strong advocate for women’s rights, as well as a champion for the empowerment of women around the world. In 2001, I began “A World of Women for World Peace” to bring greater visibility to those who are victims of war and conflict, and to draw attention to women who promote non-violent conflict resolution within their communities. I will continue to work to achieve equality for women and to ensure their contributions to society do not go unnoticed.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.07.2012	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson Addressed Presidents and Chapter Leaders of the National Urban League Young Professionals Washington, DC – (Tuesday, March 6, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, today addressed a group of National Urban League Young Professionals (NULYP) on the importance of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) during their 9th Annual Legislative Policy Conference on Capitol Hill. In speaking with the group, Congresswoman Johnson noted:“If you want to do well, whether you become a researcher, inventor, leader, or have a great job, it is essential that your background has some part of STEM in it. Even just to take care of your family, you need to know some STEM. Knowledge of computer skills and technology is essential in today’s environment. Technology is ever evolving, and in order to see more minorities on the world stage in this field, we must acquire and polish our skill sets in STEM education.”Congresswoman Johnson was invited as a feature speaker at the National Urban League Young Professionals Conversation Event hosted with the National Urban League Policy Institute (NULPI).###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.07.2012	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, March 6, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne:“I’m saddened to learn about the passing of my colleague Congressman Donald Payne. Congressman Payne lost his battle with cancer early this morning, and we in Congress lost an esteemed colleague. Congressman Payne was a devoted public servant who used his position in Congress to advocate for those less fortunate— first as a teacher and later serving on the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. Congressman Payne was an advocate for children and worked to make college more affordable. As the highest Ranking Democrat on the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights, he worked to promote human rights around the world and helped secure billions of dollars in foreign aid for treating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.It is difficult to lose a member of the Congressional Black Caucus. This news is a terrible loss for New Jersey and our Nation. Donald Payne was a valuable leader who dedicated his life to service and global advocacy for more than twenty years. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, staff, and constituents of the 10th Congressional District of New Jersey.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.05.2012	Dallas, TX – (Monday, March 5, 2012) – This past weekend, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and key leaders in Dallas celebrated the opening of the highly anticipated Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge. “The Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge is truly symbolic to the city of Dallas. With its completion, it unites downtown and West Dallas. By bridging these two communities, we will hope to spur economic growth and enhance the diversity of the Dallas area. We have already seen the beginnings of the revitalization of West Dallas, and I am excited to see the continued progress. The Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge is a beautiful addition to the Dallas skyline,” stated Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson.The 400 foot white arch bridge, designed by Santiago Calatrava, will connect Singleton Boulevard in West Dallas across the Trinity River to Woodall Rodgers (Spur 366) in downtown Dallas and other points in the area. An estimated 42,000 vehicles are expected to cross the Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge each day.Congresswoman Johnson has worked tirelessly for many years to support the Trinity Project and to secure several hundred million dollars in federal funding for the project and Trinity River Bridges.The bridge is named after Margaret Hunt Hill, who served as a renowned civic leader and first-born daughter of Texas oil magnate, H.L. Hunt, Jr. The Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge is scheduled to open to the public at the end of March.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.29.2012	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson at the 17th Annual Faith-Based Prayer Breakfast Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, February 29, 2012) – On Monday, February 27th, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted her 17th Annual Prayer Breakfast at the Diabetes Health and Wellness Institute at Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center – an affiliate of Baylor Health Care System. Joel Allison, President & CEO of Baylor Health Care System, offered remarks as well as several other key leaders in the healthcare and faith community.At the Prayer Breakfast, Congresswoman Johnson addressed the pressing need to combat child hunger in Dallas. “With the current economic state of our country, the number of people struggling with poverty and hunger in America is on the rise. In Dallas County alone, there are nearly 200,000 food insecure children. As leaders of our faith community and those of us in public office, we cannot continue to let another child go hungry,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “ I want to tackle these issues on all levels. I am committed to shaping these policies that will protect and preserve programs such as Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC), and school breakfast and lunch programs to fight the ‘War on Poverty’.”More than one hundred leaders in the faith-based community and social service organizations were in attendance to discuss the benefits of partnering with non-profit organizations and private entities to better serve their communities, and to provide resources to the underserved in the Dallas community. A diversity of faiths gathered at the breakfast including members of the Baptist, Church of God in Christ, Catholic, Jewish, and Muslim communities and others.CLICK HERE TO SEE PICTURES FROM THE EVENT###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.22.2012	Dallas, TX – (Wednesday, February 22, 2012) – Today, the Department of Labor announced more than $183 million in grant awards for the H-1B Technical Skills Training Program. Two companies that provide workforce training in the Dallas area, Workforce Solutions and Industrial Consultants LLC, will receive several million dollars in funding to train highly-skilled employees. Workforce Solutions will receive close to $5 million in funding. “This is fantastic news for the city of Dallas, which is home to nearly 175,000 high-tech jobs,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. “We need to encourage growth in the high-tech industries so that our country can have the talent necessary to become more innovative and compete globally. It is critical that we do all that we can to diversify our workforce in order to remain one of the most productive countries in the world.” Forty-three grantees – partnerships between private and public entities – were awarded funding to provide education, training, and job placement assistance.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.16.2012	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson honors Veteran with Doris “Dorie” Miller Commemorative Coin Dallas, TX – (Thursday, February 16, 2012) – Earlier this week,Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson paid tribute to sixteen World War II veterans at the Dallas Veteran Affairs Community Living Center in honor of National Salute to Veterans Week.Congresswoman Johnson expressed her appreciation for their service and presented each World War II veteran with a Doris “Dorie” Miller Commemorative Coin. Doris Miller honorably served in the Navy during WWII and made his distinct mark in history during the attacks on Pearl Harbor.“Dorie Miller is an American hero and I was privileged to know him as my neighbor in Waco, Texas,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. “The bravery displayed by Dorie Miller, a cook without weapons training who defended his country at Pearl Harbor, represents a true American veteran. It is because of him and these veterans I met this week, that we are able to enjoy our freedom in this country.”The annual VA National Salute program began in 1978 when the VA took over sponsorship of a program started in 1974 by the humanitarian organization No Greater Love, Inc. VA Voluntary Service staff plan and execute local events and activities at VA medical centers. The National Salute is observed annually during the week of Valentine's Day, a day of caring and sharing which underscores the Salute's expression of honor and appreciation to inpatient and outpatient Veterans.To See All Pictures From This Event Click HERE ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.09.2012	Washington, DC – (Thursday, February 9, 2012) –Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement on the introduction of the DISCLOSE 2012 Act, which will promote transparency and disclosure of the secret money being used to influence American elections:“I’m pleased today to join my Democratic colleagues to introduce the DISCLOSE 2012 Act that will require expanded disclosure of campaign spending by Super-PACs, corporations, and lobbyists. The American people have a right to know how donations are potentially influencing our elections, and this is the first step to holding large donors and the candidates accountable.The Supreme Court decision in Citizens United overturned decades of precedence and has dramatically changed the way corporations and wealthy donors can influence Federal elections. By lifting any limits on these donations, this ruling has tainted our electoral process and how elections now take place. The lack of transparency surrounding the newly-formed Super-PACs allows special interests to donate unprecedented amounts of money to campaigns, as we are already witnessing in the 2012 Presidential Election.” The summary of the bill can be found here:https://vanhollen.house.gov/UploadedFiles/DISCLOSE_Summary_020912.pdf. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.07.2012	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, February 7, 2012) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of the 12th Annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day:“Today, February 7th, represents an important day in our community as we have an opportunity to educate blacks on HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, and action. HIV/AIDS is taking a devastating toll on the black community, with nearly 20,000 blacks testing positive for HIV each year in the United States. While black Americans account for nearly 14% of the U.S. population, it is disheartening that they account for 44% of new HIV infections.As a long-time advocate for women’s health, I am most concerned by the fact that African-American women in the U.S. are 15 times more likely to be living with HIV/AIDS than their white counterparts. I cannot overemphasize the importance of getting tested and knowing your status. Getting tested is the first step towards managing this disease, because early treatment is critical to prolonging life.Each of us has a role to play in fighting the spread of this devastating disease. In line with this year’s theme, “I am My Brother’s/Sister’s keeper: Fight HIV/AIDS,” I urge African-Americans to get educated, get tested, and, most importantly, get involved. I will continue to work with my colleagues, the Administration, and local community partners in the 30th Congressional District of Texas to make AIDS/HIV a disease of the past.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.06.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON APPLAUDS $2.1 BILLION SAVINGS THROUGH THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACTWashington, DC – (Monday, February 6, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on $2.1 billion savings through the Affordable Care Act:“In the Affordable Care Act’s first year, Texans saved more than $1.3 million in health care costs, an average of $639.36 per beneficiary.These savings touched 210,700 Texans on Medicare and directly benefited our Nation’s seniors. Each year, seniors spend thousands of dollars to cover prescription drugs costs. Elderly minorities are hit the hardest, as they disproportionately suffer from chronic illnesses, such as diabetes and heart disease, which require long term prescription drug use. Republican efforts to repeal this law would result in a major setback to these great strides that we’ve made in making health care costs affordable to seniors and all Americans. As a registered nurse, I understand first-hand the importance of lower health care and prescription drug costs, holding insurance companies accountable, and the need to provide quality health care to all Americans. The Affordable Care Act will help even more people next year, and patients with preexisting conditions will be covered by 2014. I will continue to support legislation that provides quality, affordable, and accessible health care to all Americans.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.03.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT IN HONOR OF BLACK HISTORY MONTH Washington, DC – (Friday, February 3, 2012) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in honor of Black History Month:“Each year we observe the month of February to honor the achievements and contributions of African Americans during “Black History Month.” Let us reflect on the diversity of African Americans, who play an essential role in shaping the story of our Nation. We live in a country where equality, opportunity, and justice can be achieved. We need to continue working towards America’s promise on achieving civil rights and equality for all. America is the land of opportunity, because of the great leaders who’ve unselfishly fought to provide a stronger and more equalized Union. This is a suited time to pay homage to one of America’s change agents and “first lady of civil rights,” Rosa Parks, who would have turned 99 years old today. We are all aware of her movement that led to ending legal segregation in America and this couldn’t come as a more perfect time to reflect on her life and service to our Nation. For centuries, the African American community has enriched our lives by contributing substantially to the makeup and heritage of our country.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.03.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE DROPPING TO 8.3 PERCENTWashington, DC – (Friday, February 3, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the unemployment rate dropping to 8.3 percent:“Today, the U.S. Department of Labor announced that the unemployment rate for January 2012 has dropped to 8.3 percent, the lowest it has been since February 2009. This is a positive sign that our economy continues to move in the right direction, and that the efforts of President Obama to create jobs are proving effective.While this is welcomed news, there is still much work to be done for the countless working families out there who continue to hurt from a weakened economy. Extending unemployment insurance and tax breaks for the middle class should remain our highest priorities until employment returns to normal levels. I stand committed alongside President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to create jobs here at home and put Americans back to work.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.03.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ISSUED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON THE PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN SUSAN G. KOMEN FOR THE CURE AND PLANNED PARENTHOOD Washington, DC – (Friday, February 3, 2012) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson issued the following statement on the partnership between Susan G. Komen for the Cure and Planned Parenthood:“It has come to my attention that Susan G. Komen for the Cure decided to amend their grant funding policy after an outcry of disappointment from women and those who support women’s rights. It was this audience who spoke up and pleaded for the reenactment of this partnership. It is my hope that we can all support both Susan G. Komen for the Cure and Planned Parenthood to make sure that the Komen Foundation will sincerely reenact their partnership. It is also my hope that the country will join together and reinstate their full support for Susan G. Komen for the Cure.As a registered nurse, I understand the importance of women having access to quality, affordable health services. Unfortunately, low-income women often have limited access to these crucial life-saving services. I have and will continue to support measures aimed at providing quality health services for all women, especially those who have limited resources—as all women regardless of income level deserve access to quality healthcare.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.31.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOSTED AN IMPORTANT DISCUSSION WITH ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR CIVIL RIGHTS DR. JOE LEONARD AND TEXAS FARM OWNERS AND LAND OWNERS Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson with Assistant Secretary For Civil Rights Dr. Joe Leonard and Texas Farm Owners and Land Owners Dallas, TX – (Tuesday, January 31, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a meeting with United States Department of Agriculture Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Dr. Joe Leonard, and several Texas farmers and land owners. Assistant Secretary Leonard visited the Dallas area to promote outreach programs within the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) designed to assist farmers and landowners in effectively improving their businesses.A group of black farmers and land owners attended the forum to directly address Assistant Secretary Leonard on long-standing challenges faced by the farming community, as well as finding solutions to improve communication with small and minority farmers. Attendees traveled as far as Oklahoma and East Texas to learn about new programs and opportunities offered by USDA’s Farm Service Agency (FSA). With nearly 250,000 farms in the state of Texas, farmers are integral to Texas as one of the top agriculture states in the Nation. Over the past two decades, Congresswoman Johnson has been committed to addressing the needs of farmers, first as a member of the Texas State Senate, and now representing the 30th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives.“The struggle is not just with you, but with us, who often have trouble bringing attention to your issues and in securing the funding that you need to successfully perform,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The voices of black farmers will be heard and Assistant Secretary Leonard will ensure your concerns are evaluated.”Congresswoman Johnson hosted several groups including the Texas Ranchers and Land Owners Association, the Texas Small Farmers Association, individual farmers and land owners, and representatives from FSA and the USDA/1890 Program. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.25.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOSTED A VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN ROUNDTABLE WITH KEY LEADERS IN THE DALLAS AREA Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (center) with key leaders at the Violence Against Women Roundtable Discussion Washington, DC – (Wednesday, January 25, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a Roundtable Discussion to address violence against women and children in Dallas over the past weekend. The forum was planned as a response to recent events in which several members of the sorority Delta Sigma Theta, Inc. were assaulted in the Dallas area. Cheryl Smith of the Dallas Weekly served as the moderator. Congresswoman Johnson used this opportunity to promote awareness about the recent attacks and to mobilize the community to end violence against women and children.“I’ve always been committed to the advancement of women and children. If we don’t provide a safe and secure environment for our children, then we run the risk of perpetuating the cycle of violence. We must empower women to lead and protect their communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. Mayor Mike Rawlings, District Attorney Craig Watkins, and Dallas Police Chief David Brown attended the event and emphasized how community support to end violence against women is critical for the Dallas community. Additional guests included Mrs. Serita Jakes of The Potter’s House and representatives from the Dallas Police Department. Members from the Texas Council on Family Violence and the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault were on hand to provide background on the impact of state policy on these issues. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.24.2012	Washington, D.C. (January 24, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on President Obama's State of the Union address:“I thought the President did a great job outlining a 21st century vision for America that is inclusive, equitable, innovative and competitive.I applaud the President’s efforts to rebuild our economy by focusing on American manufacturing, American energy, skills for American workers, and a renewal of American values. As the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and as a Senior Texan on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, I look forward to working with the President on these important issues to ensure our priorities are addressed.I support the President’s efforts to improve education in this country. Today’s children are tomorrow’s leaders, and they need to be well educated to excel. There needs to be renewed focus on science, technology, education and math for our young people to compete in a global economy.I also commend him that, for the first time in nine years, there are no Americans fighting in Iraq and we’ve made important progress in Afghanistan.” Video of Congresswoman Johnson's reaction following the speech > https://www.c-spanvideo.org/program/HallInt/start/50/stop/147###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.23.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON OFFERS A STATEMENT ON THE RESIGNATION OF CONGRESSWOMAN GABRIELLE GIFFORDSWashington, DC – (Monday, January 23, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords’ resignation from the U.S. House of Representatives:“Congresswoman Giffords’ unbreakable spirit is a lesson that fear will not drive us. Unity and the dedication to our democracy will help us rise above all adversity.The victims of this tragedy were individuals who were committed to the well-being of their community. They had gathered that Saturday morning a year ago in Tucson to discuss making their community and our world a better place. It is in good spirit that before Congresswoman Giffords resigns she has chosen to finish what she started by holding a private gathering in Tucson with some of the people who were at present that tragic day a year ago.As Ranking Member on the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology I have worked with Congresswoman Giffords closely for the past five years, where she served as both the Chairwoman and Ranking Member of the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee. She has made an immeasurable contribution to our work on the Committee, and has been a steadfast champion of NASA and encouraging our next generation of scientists. She is one of the most devoted Members of the House of Representatives, and has served our country with distinction.Congresswoman Giffords is a shining example of our Democratic system of government – a system where we all have a voice. As she departs these hallowed halls of Congress, I take comfort from the fact that she is doing so to devote her energies to restoring her full health, and I wish her the best in her continuing recovery. She and her family will remain in my thoughts and prayers.I pray that we can rise together as a nation and embody those values of service that Congresswoman Giffords has personified.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.13.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. DAYWashington, DC – (Friday, January 13, 2012) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today in recognition of Martin Luther King DayJr. Day, which will be observed on Monday, January 16, 2012: “Each year we honor Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s legacy with a national day of service. As we reflect on the life of Dr. King, we must remember the principles that he embodied and to continue striving for unity and equality in our daily lives. This is a time to reevaluate what more we can do as a great Nation to ensure civil rights for all. We should all be encouraged to use this holiday to engage in civic responsibility and to give back to our communities. It is important to keep Dr. King’s dream alive in our hearts and in our actions.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.05.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SUPPORTS THE POSTAL REGULATORY COMMISSION REPORT ON USPS CLOSURES Washington, DC – (Thursday, January 5, 2012) –Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson acknowledged her support for the Postal Regulatory Commission (PRC) Report on the Postal Service’s Retail Access Optimization Initiative (RAOI). The report outlined significant miscalculations in the USPS’s methodology for indentifying over 3,600 post offices and other retail branches for possible closure.The Dallas Processing and Distribution Center and four retail branches in the 30th Congressional District are being considered for closure or relocation under the existing RAOI. Several smaller branches in the District have already closed or have been consolidated.“These recent findings by the Commission align with my initial criticisms,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Aside from the obvious job implications for tens of thousands of hard-working Americans, this attempt to reduce costs would only drastically cut services for businesses and individuals that rely heavily on the Postal Service, but not actually resolve the agency’s problem of avoiding insolvency.”Congresswoman Johnson has met with USPS leadership in Dallas and Washington, DC since 2009 to avert any postal closures in the 30th Congressional District. Citing the same concerns as the PRC panel, Congresswoman Johnson has been vocal in her opposition to the method which the post offices were being selected. The USPS has since announced a moratorium on any post office closures until May 15, 2012.The full report on the Postal Regulatory Commission can be found here:https://www.prc.gov/Docs/78/78971/N2011-1_AdvisoryOP.pdf ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.04.2012	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ACKNOWLEDGES $36,000 GRANT TO THE LANCASTER FIRE DEPARTMENT Washington, DC – (Wednesday, January 4, 2012) – Today, U. S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) announced a $36,000 grant award to Lancaster Fire Department. The grant is part of FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program, which awards grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to protect the health and safety of the public and first-responder personnel. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for grants to local first responders in the 30th Congressional District.Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson stated, “I applaud the Lancaster Fire Department for their brave service to our community, and am pleased that they were awarded this competitive grant. First responders put their lives on the line everyday to protect the public from fire and natural disasters, and to provide emergency medical services. We owe it to them to keep them safe and protect them from harm’s way.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.22.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RECEIVES ‘WOMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD’ BY THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL WOMEN Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 22)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee, was awarded the prestigious Woman of the Year Award by the National Association of Professional Women (NAPW) for advancement in public service. The NAPW Research and Development Committee selected the Congresswoman based on her significant contributions to the state of Texas and the Nation, professional achievements, community involvement, and local prominence. “I am truly honored to be selected as Woman of the Year by one of the most respected women’s organizations. The National Association of Professional Women is an organization that empowers women to lead with confidence. I will continue to exemplify the mission and goals of NAPW by inspiring and empowering women in their professional careers,” said Congresswoman Johnson. The National Association of Professional Women is one of the fastest growing professional women’s organizations.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.16.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ISSUES STATEMENT ON THE MORATORIUM OF U.S. POSTAL SERVICE CLOSINGS, UNTIL MAY 15Washington, DC – (Friday, December 16) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that there will be a moratorium on the closing or consolidation of post offices or mail processing facilities in North Texas. On Tuesday, fifteen U.S. Senators and the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) issued a moratorium on the closure of thousands of post offices throughout the country until May 15, 2012. The Postal Service would like to cut costs by consolidating about 3,700 post offices, end Saturday service, and eliminate first class overnight mail. “While I applaud members of the Senate and USPS leadership for reaching this agreement, I do have some longstanding concerns that I have been seeking resolution on since 2009 when the first Area Mail Processing (AMP) feasibility studies were being conducted. In a series of letters to USPS and meetings with the agency’s leadership, I have been very vocal in my opposition to closing or relocating these mailing centers in my congressional district. In an economy where unemployment runs high and social mobility runs low, there could not be a worse time to close thousands of retail branches and put even more hard working Americans out of work,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. Since 2009, Congresswoman Johnson has been actively fighting to ensure that Dallas residents, as well as the city’s large business community have access to adequate postal services. She understands that the USPS needs to cut costs to stay competitive, but wants to ensure cuts don’t hinder residents or their businesses. Congresswoman Johnson met with thousands of constituents to gather public input on the best approach to keep post offices open. She has also kept in consistent contact with the Postmaster General on a host of issues related to access to services for the 30th Congressional District and North Texas. Congresswoman Johnson is a co-sponsor of H.R. 1351, the USPS Pension Obligation Recalculation and Restoration Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation to help the USPS recoup nearly $7 billion in overpayments to its pension fund.Congresswoman Johnson’s statement can be seen below:Congresswoman Eddie Bernice JohnsonStatement onUSPS Moratorium on Facility Closures------December 16, 2011 On Tuesday, December 13, fifteen U.S. Senators in conjunction with Postal Service leadership announced a verbal agreement to halt any post office closures until May 15, 2012. This moratorium is intended to give Congress the time it needs to enact comprehensive postal reform without needlessly restructuring the agency at the cost of tens of thousands of jobs. This announcement comes at a time when USPS faces a projected $14.1 billion loss in fiscal 2012 and is evaluating the possibility of closing up to 3,700 local branches and 252 mail-processing facilities. One such facility and a number of retail branches throughout the 30th District of Texas stand to be affected by these proposed changes. While I applaud members of the Senate and USPS leadership for reaching this agreement, I do have some longstanding concerns that I have been seeking resolution on since 2009 when the first Area Mail Processing (AMP) feasibility studies were being conducted. In a series of letters to USPS and meetings with the agency’s leadership, I have been very vocal in my opposition to closing or relocating these mailing centers. In an economy where unemployment runs high and social mobility runs low, there could not be a worse time to close thousands of retail branches and put even more hard working Americans out of work.This agreement to delay the closures is a positive sign that Congress and the USPS are able and willing to come to a viable solution in solving the agency’s financial woes. However, at my behest, we have seen such delays before in the 30th District and yet USPS has still not developed a comprehensive plan to streamline its operations and update the agency’s role in the 21st century. I have requested more transparency and availability for public input from the agency when conducting its feasibility studies, yet that has not happened in my opinion. I have met with USPS leadership to discuss the effects these closures would have on jobs for thousands of Americans, and yet their decisions have not reflected a serious consideration of those concerns. With this announcement, it remains apparent that the bulk of our work remains. I am eager to work with my colleagues in the Senate and USPS leadership in the coming months to find practical and cost-effective solutions to this very serious problem. Nobody is ignoring the fact that USPS mail volume has declined tremendously, however like any business the USPS must evolve with the ever-changing times and redefine itself in a dynamic and unpredictable economy. I have always and will continue to be willing to work with my colleagues to facilitate this change; however it is largely up to the USPS leadership to guide the agency into a prosperous future.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON THE END OF THE IRAQ WARWashington, DC (Thursday, December 15, 2011) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the end of the Iraq War:“The Iraq War is over! After nine years of more than one million Americans sacrificing for our safety and bringing democracy to the Middle East, U.S. troops are now able to come home. President Obama kept his commitment to end the Iraq War and bring our troops home by the end of the year, which marks a critical period in our Country.I want to offer sincere gratitude to our brave Veterans for their loyalty to America and preserving our Nation. Let us not forget the nearly 4,500 soldiers who have not returned home. With the end of the war, we can focus on strengthening our economy and building a stronger America that is worthy of our Veterans’ sacrifice.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ACKNOWLEDGES $5 MILLION GRANT AWARD TO THE DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 14) – Today, the U.S. Department of Transportation announced the $5 million grant award to Dallas Area Rapid Transit. The grant award is part of the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program (TIFIA), and provides assistance for projects of regional and national significance. Congresswoman Johnson has been a strong advocate for local transit investment programs.Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson stated, “This news illustrates how DART’s innovative approach to multi-modal transportation makes it so competitive in receiving federal grants. DART is one of the premiere transit systems in the Nation, and a model for transit systems all over the country. As a Senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I believe having a diverse transportation infrastructure is crucial to growing and strengthening our economy.”The TIFIA grant will pay the subsidy and administrative costs of a robust TIFIA credit instrument to help finance the Orange Line Extension (I-3). The project will complete the final segment of a 14.5-mile light rail link from Downtown Dallas to Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW), including a new station at DFW Terminal A.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON INTRODUCES THE NATIONAL NURSE ACT 2011,HR 3679 Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 15) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced the National Nurse Act of 2011, HR 3679. The bill, co-led by Congressman Peter King (R-NY), has garnered eighteen original co-sponsors. It would designate the Chief Nurse Officer of the U.S. Public Health Service as the “National Nurse for Public Health.” The National Nurse would function alongside the Surgeon General and focus on health promotion, improving health literacy, and decreasing health disparities.“The National Nurse Act of 2011 is an important piece of legislation that would establish a focal point for promoting health and disease prevention. There are currently 3.4 million nurses, making the demographic the largest sector of healthcare workers in the United States.“As the first registered nurse in Congress, I believe that having a National Nurse focused on prevention activities will help reduce illnesses and decrease the costs for care and services,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The National Nurse Act of 2011 is currently endorsed by dozens of prominent nursing organizations and key stakeholders. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.12.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON MEETS WITH EUROPEAN UNION AND UNITED STATES SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY MAKERS Washington, DC – (Monday, December 12) – Recently, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member of the House, Science, Space and Technology Committee, attended a joint European Union (EU) – United States (US) conference hosted by the European Commission’s Joint Research Centre (JRC) on, “Building a Transatlantic Scientific Bridge.” She was invited to participate by Mr. Dominique Ristori, the Director General of the JRC. The purpose of the conference was to foster dialogue and coordination between EU and US policy makers, the scientific community, and standardization bodies. The topics discussed included general science policy, smart grid, science education, health information technology, and the harmonization of international standards. In addition to participating in the day-long conference, Congresswoman Johnson met with the Ambassador of the US to the EU, Hon.William Kennard. She also met with Ms. Edit Herczog, a Member of the European Parliament who serves on the Industry, Research, and Energy Committee (ITRE). “I believe that information exchanges such as this one are incredibly important and beneficial to us all, because the vast majority of the challenges we face as policymakers are global in nature. In addition to the important role science and technology can play in helping us to solve big global challenges, science does and must continue to underpin regulatory policies that will ensure our citizens will continue to have clean air to breathe and clean water to drink now and far into the future,” said Congresswoman Johnson in her remarks on the panel “Science for better policies: scientific support to policy making.”Also participating from the U.S. were representatives from the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the Department of Energy’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the National Science Foundation, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and Ford Motor Company. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.07.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON PEARL HARBOR REMEMBRANCE DAYWashington, DC – (Wednesday, December 7, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today commemorating the 70th anniversary of the attack on Pearl Harbor:“I rise in support to honor Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day and to commemorate those who’ve served their country at Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. I can find no greater inspiration for seeing our current struggles through to complete victory than in the men and women of past generations who served heroically in defense of our nation, especially at Pearl Harbor “a date which will live in infamy.”One of those heroes was Dorie Miller, an African American mess attendant aboard the USS West Virginia, when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor. Dorie Miller was responsible for dragging his ship's wounded commander out of the line of fire. Once his captain was safe, he manned a machine gun on the ship's deck.He did so despite the fact that African Americans generally did not serve in combat operations or other positions of greater responsibility, and thus he had not been instructed in gunnery. With serious bombing and strafing all around him, Dorie Miller shot down at least two of the 29 Japanese planes that were lost by the attackers that day.Dorie Miller continued to serve his country in the Navy during World War II. However, in 1943, he and 654 shipmates were killed in the line of duty when the Japanese sank the USS Liscome Bay near the Gilbert Islands.Unfortunately, Dorie Miller's acts of valor have never been fully recognized, and some of the awards that were bestowed upon him were only given grudgingly. Dorie Miller's actions were not publicized until three months after the Pearl Harbor attack. Then, he was only given a letter of citation by the Secretary of the Navy--the lowest of awards for duty.Dorie Miller was finally awarded the Navy Cross, but only after a public campaign by civil rights organizations brought about critical attention in the press. However, Dorie Miller was not decorated with the Nation's highest honor--the Congressional Medal of Honor. In fact, no African American who served in World War II received the Congressional Medal of Honor until seven Army veterans received the award in 1997.As we honor the devotion, dedication, and sacrifice of all who served at Pearl Harbor, I can think of no better commemoration than to finally recognize the actions of Dorie Miller. I have introduced legislation which would begin to cure this injustice. The bill would waive the time limitation specified in current law for the awarding of military decorations in order to allow the posthumous award of the Congressional Medal of Honor to Dorie Miller for his heroic actions during World War II. I have asked my colleagues to cosponsor my bill and the Armed Services Committee to expedite its passage so that a long-awaited honor may finally be bestowed upon this deserving individual.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.07.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOSTS LIVE VIDEOCONFERENCE WITH THE SECRETARY OF LABOR AND DALLAS LABOR LEADERS Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Department of Labor Secretary Hilda Solis meet with key labor leaders in Texas Washington, DC – (Wednesday, December 7) – On Monday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a live videoconference with Labor Secretary Hilda Solis and key labor leaders from the 30th Congressional District and North Texas.Following Congresswoman Johnson’s invitation, Secretary Solis came to her Washington, DC office to engage with labor leaders from North Texas in an open and informative dialogue. The forty-five minute discussion centered on key topics such as making Texas more union friendly, the labor violation grievance process, and other pressing issues facing labor.“I would like to thank Secretary Solis for her leadership and commitment to America’s work force. I also reaffirm my commitment to American workers, preserving their rights and my accessibility to hear their concerns. I will continue to work with the Administration to provide support and resources for working families,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The following participants included:Hilda Solis, Department of Labor SecretaryCarlos Marroquin, Dallas Area Director, SEIURomero Munoz, President, UAWRod Cuevas, Organizer/Assistant Business Representative, Teamsters Local 745Herb Keener, Chief Steward, CWA Local 6215Felipe Mendez, Secretary-Treasurer, UFCW Local 540Yared Wonde, President, APWU Local 732###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.,
12.02.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CONGRATULATES RECIPIENTS OF THE 2011 NOBEL PRIZE Washington, DC – (Friday, December 2) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member on the House, Science, Space and Technology Committee, attended a reception honoring the 2011 Nobel Prize recipients for their contributions to the sciences.Congresswoman Johnson offered the following statement: “I sincerely admire the recipients for their hard work and dedication to their respective fields. The accomplishments of these scientists and economists are strong examples of how the U.S. is leading the world in science. I hope that we continue investing in science, technology, engineering, and math so that the U.S. can maintain its competitive edge.”Dr. John P Holdren, Assistant to the President for Science and Technology and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy honored the laureates below: Dr. Saul Perlmutter, PhysicsDr. Adam G. Riess, PhysicsDr. Brian P. Schmidt, PhysicsDr. Bruce A. Beutler, Physiology or MedicineDr. Ralph M. Steinman, Physiology or Medicine (in memoriam)Dr. Thomas J. Sargent, Economic SciencesDr. Christopher A. Sims, Economic Sciences Dr. Bruce A. Beutler, honored laureate, currently serves as a geneticist and immunologist at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Dr. Beutler was awarded the Nobel Prize for his joint discovery of receptor proteins that recognize disease-causing agents and activate innate immunity, the first step in the body’s immune system.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON WORLD AIDS DAY 2012 Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 1, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today in recognition of World AIDS Day 2012:“Today is an important day to unite against the fight against HIV/AIDS and to work towards an AIDS free nation. It is estimated that 33 million people globally are currently living with HIV. Take a moment to recognize World AIDS Day by taking charge of your health and protect yourself.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON REINTRODUCED THE HATE CRIMES AGAINST HOMELESS STATISTIC ACT OF 2011 Washington, DC – (Thursday, December 1) – Yesterday, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson reintroduced the Hate Crimes Against the Homeless Statistics Act in the House of Representatives. This act would include homeless people in hate crime statistics collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.“A hate crime is one of the most despicable and prejudicial acts done onto another human being by a human being and surprisingly these acts affect homeless people in great proportions. It is imperative that we give this issue the serious attention that it deserves by including homeless people in hate crime statistics,” said Congresswoman Johnson.“The true purpose of this act is to create the most reliable and accurate data on hate crimes,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Congresswoman Johnson introduced a similar bill in 2009 and there were thirteen Members of Congress that sponsored the bill. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.30.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SUPPORTS THE PAYROLL TAX CUTWashington, DC – (Wednesday, November 30) – President Obama spoke this afternoon at Scranton High School in Scranton, Pennsylvania to inform the American people on the dire need to extend the payroll tax cut, a section in the American Jobs Act. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson offered the following statement:“The President’s payroll tax cut is an important piece of legislation that will benefit 160 million Americans by giving families an extra $1,500 a year. This is a necessary act that will give relief to working families, businesses, and ignite economic growth.The tax cuts will be paid by implementing a small 3.25 percent surtax on income over $1 million a year. I stand by President Obama and believe that it’s time for the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share.If we don’t act now, Americans will feel the weight of owing $1,000 or more in tax increases, at a time when the nation is experiencing 9 percent unemployment and continued financial insecurity.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.21.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON VOTE AGAINST BALANCED BUDGET AMENDMENTWashington, DC – (Monday, November 21) – Congressman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted down a balanced budget amendment: “The Balanced Budget Amendment failed to pass in the House on Friday, which would destroy 15 million jobs, cripple the economic recovery and imperil our social safety net: Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security and double the unemployment to 18 percent. Our country cannot afford to continue going in this direction. We need to create jobs, not eliminate them. We need our economy to prosper, not falter,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.“A balanced budget can be achieved through spending cuts and revenue increases.”More than 270 national organizations opposed this amendment, including the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, Paralyzed Veterans of America, Easter Seals and others.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.18.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOSTED A SUCCESSFUL TELEPHONE TOWNHALL MEETING THURSDAY NIGHTWashington, DC – (Friday, November 18) – Yesterday evening, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted a Telephone Townhall for the 30th congressional district in Texas. The Congresswoman provided an opportunity for a two-way dialogue on the economy, job creation, new student loan payment programs, and more.Over 3,200 people dialed-in during the one hour session to hear from the Congresswoman. “I was delighted to speak with the constituents in Dallas on the issues that mattered most to them. The Telephone Townhalls encourage transparent questions and open expression,” stated Congresswoman Johnson.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.17.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON OFFERS A STATEMENT ON THE TEXAS VOTER ID LAW Washington, D.C. (November 17, 2011)– In a letter issued Wednesday, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) told the Texas Secretary of State’s Office that more information will be needed before any decision will be made on the controversial Voter ID law. “The information provided thus far is incomplete and does not enable us to determine that the proposed changes have neither the purpose nor will have the effect of denying or abridging the right to vote on account of account of race, color or membership in a language minority group, as required under Section 5,” the Department of Justice stated.In September, the DOJ requested a demographic breakdown of the estimated 605,500 registered voters who do not have state-issued IDs and drivers licenses in Texas. The Voter ID law, if pre-cleared would require all Texas voters to show a picture ID before casting their ballots.The bill was pushed through under a Republican super-majority in the Texas Legislature and was signed into law by Governor Rick Perry in the spring. However, any law affecting how Texans vote must first be pre-cleared by the DOJ, due to the state’s history of racially discriminating laws.“I applaud the U.S. Department of Justice’s decision, denying preclearance on the Voter ID Law. This is a win for the Texans fighting to protect their Constitutional Right to Vote. The state’s continued defiance of cooperating with the DOJ, shows that the true intent of this legislation was to disenfranchise certain voters,” stated Congresswoman Johnson. For more information please read: Texas ID Law Letter ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.16.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON OFFERS REMARKS DURING THE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL CEREMONY HONORING FOUR LEGENDARY ASTRONAUTS Congressional Leaders Gathered in the Capitol Rotunda to Honor Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, John Glenn and Michael CollinsWashington, DC – (Wednesday, November 16) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Ranking Member of the House, Science, Space and Technology Committee, honored four legendary astronauts during the Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony. Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin were the first humans to walk on the moon, while Senator John Glenn was the first American to orbit the Earth and Michael Collins orbited the moon in the command module.The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest and most prestigious civilian award bestowed upon by the United States Congress. In addition to this award, the four astronauts have previously received the NASA Distinguished Service Medal and the Presidential Medal of Freedom.During the program, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson stated “‘Hero’ is an overused word, but I think that all who are assembled here today would not hesitate to describe our honorees as genuine national heroes.In fact, the only ones who might object to that description are our honorees themselves. In an age of inflated egos and self-promotion, each of these gentlemen has distinguished himself by his modesty, his competence, his bravery, and his dedication to serving this nation." The Congresswoman concluded by saying “It is our challenge—and our duty—to do all we can in these challenging fiscal times to keep that preeminence in space, because doing so will inspire our young people, strengthen our economy, create the jobs of the future, and benefit our society in countless ways.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.16.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RECOGNIZES THE FIRST AFRICAN AMERICAN GENERAL IN THE U.S. MILITARY SERVICES Washington, DC – (Wednesday, November 16) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced a bill to honor General Brigadier Hazel Winifred Johnson-Brown, the first African American woman to hold the rank of General in the U.S. Military Services and the first African American to hold the position of Chief of the Army Nurse Corps.General Johnson-Brown held numerous leadership positions in the Army, including Director of the Walter Reed Army Institute of Nursing and Chief Nurse of the Army Hospital in Seoul, Korea. General Johnson-Brown was awarded for her service through the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Meritorious Service Medal and the Army Commendation Medal.“As we conclude Veterans Day 2011, let us not forget to recognize General Johnson-Brown’s service to our country as a significant trailblazer in the military and an example of achieving racial and gender equality throughout the tenure of her career. I strongly encourage my colleagues to support this resolution honoring the distinguished career of General Johnson-Brown and her leadership contributions to the nursing profession,” Congresswoman Johnson said.This resolution is currently supported by the American Nurses Association and the National Nursing Network Organization.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.10.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICEJOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON VETERANS DAYWashington, DC – (Thursday, November10, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today in recognition of Veterans Day, which will be observed tomorrow:“November 11th is an important and significant day in our nation as we have the opportunity to honor our veterans and offer sincere gratitude to those who’ve valiantly served our country. Our veterans' commitment to America has provided a safer, stronger, and more prosperous Union, in which we live. I encourage each of you to observe this day by participating in programs and events commemorating their loyal service to our nation.I wish to express my deepest gratitude and appreciation to all of our nation’s fallen heroes. I also wish to honor the million-plus American servicemen and women who are currently stationed in the United States and around the world. I commend them for their bravery and for the sacrifices they make to keep our nation safe and secure.I will continue to ensure that our commitment to our troops and their families extends beyond November 11, 2011 and that we regularly honor the brave who’ve shaped our nation into a better country.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.09.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOSTS THE TEXAS "NO KID HUNGRY" DALLAS SUMMIT Dallas, Texas (November 9, 2011) –Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosted the “Texas No Kid Hungry Dallas Summit” to help eradicate hunger through policy and education. Hunger thought leaders, key stakeholders, and local community organizations joined together at the Dallas Farmers Market to discuss solutions and make a pledge to combat child hunger in Dallas County. “It is extremely appalling that Dallas is the fifth worst city for child hunger. What a difference it makes when students start the day with breakfast. We will not stop until we know every child is fed,” Congresswoman Johnson said. Congresswoman has tirelessly worked on this issue since 1975, while serving in the Texas House of Representatives, by authoring a bill to stop hunger in schools through the School Breakfast Program. This program is now national and has positively impacted the lives of low-income children and families, which has successfully helped improve children’s overall classroom performance. The Texas No Kid Hungry Dallas Summit was launched in partnership with the Texas Hunger Initiative (THI), Share Our Strength, Feed 3, City Square, and North Texas Food Bank. For more information on Congresswoman Johnson’s role in the Texas No Kid Dallas Hungry Summit, please contact Lauren Wilson, Communications Director 202-225-8885. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.21.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON STATEMENT ON IRAQ WAR COMING TO AN ENDDallas, Texas (Friday, October 21, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today after President Obama announced full troop withdrawal from Iraq by the end of the year:“I would like to commend the President for honoring his commitment to bring our troops home by the end of the year. More importantly, I want to thank the men and women serving in our armed forces and our veterans for their years of courage, dedication, and patriotism during this war.From day one, I strongly disagreed with ill-advised military action against Iraq. We must now focus our attention on our domestic priorities, such as putting Americans back to work and rebuilding our economy. We must also uphold the honor of our veterans by providing them with the medical and financial support they deserve.We can never fully repay our troops for their sacrifice, but it is our duty to try.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.06.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON REMEMBERS THE LIFE OF CIVIL RIGHTSPIONEER REV. FRED SHUTTLESWORTH Washington, DC (Thursday, October 6, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson presented a Congressional Record Statement on the floor of the House of Representatives to honor the life of a pillar of the Civil Rights Movement, Reverend Fred L. Shuttlesworth, who passed away yesterday at the age of 89.Reverend Shuttlesworth was a major force in the formation of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), a civil rights organization that helped to mobilize thousands of people to rally and protest in the name of equality. He was one of the primary leaders of the Civil Rights Movement and worked hand in hand with Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and Rev. Ralph D. Abernathy. Rev. Shuttlesworth also helped to organize the Freedom Rides through his work with the Congress on Racial Equality (CORE).“Reverend Shuttlesworth was a man of exceptional character. His fierce personality and great sense of personal sacrifice helped him to persevere during a most troubling time in our nation’s history,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Reverend Shuttlesworth had the vision and understanding to look beyond himself and make great personal sacrifices for the greater cause that was justice and equality. We must honor that sacrifice by continuing to protect that same justice and equality that he and countless others have given so much for.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.05.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SPEAKS ON THE HOUSE FLOOR TO SUPPORT CLEAN AIR REGULATION Washington, DC (Wednesday, October 5, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson spoke on the Floor of the House of Representatives in opposition to the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act. Below are Congresswoman Johnson’s remarks as prepared for delivery:I rise today in opposition to H.R. 2681 – the ‘Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act of 2011’. As we all know, cement plants are one of the primary sources of mercury pollution in the U.S. In my state of Texas alone, there are 10 cement plants which emitted 225 pounds of mercury in 2009 alone. It takes only one-seventieth of a teaspoon of mercury to contaminate a 25-acre lake and render the fish unsafe to eat. And children are the most vulnerable. Mercury exposure impairs a child’s ability to learn, write, walk, talk, and read. As a registered nurse, I have seen firsthand how children are particularly sensitive to emissions of mercury and other air toxins. As a mother and grandmother, I won’t stand by and watch these emissions go unchecked. I have always been a strong and proud defender of EPA’s charge to protect public health and the environment. In 2009, I led a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson calling for even stronger emissions standards to reduce mercury pollution. And last year, I was pleased to see that the EPA finalized standards for cement plant emissions that will reduce mercury and particulate matter pollution by over 90 percent, resulting in health savings up to $18 billion each year. Despite the noise that we have heard in recent months, the EPA’s regulations DO NOT kill jobs. As the Ranking Member of the Science, Space, and Technology Committee I know that our nation’s scientific, entrepreneurial and industrial sectors have and will innovate to meet new standard as they always have. We will reduce air pollution in this country while creating thousands of jobs. The predictions of widespread economic disruption and collapse of our industrial sector because of what some call an overreaching Clean Air Act have been proven wrong time and again. We should expect that today’s hysteria will be no different. Therefore, I stand with the citizens of Texas and impacted communities across the nation in opposing this bill, and not with the big polluters. Congress passed the Clean Air Act 40 years ago, and we have cleaner air today because of it. But we can always do better. That is why we must support the purpose and mission of the EPA, and oppose H.R. 2681. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.05.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES HUD GRANT FOR THE NORTH TEXAS FAIR HOUSING CENTER Washington, DC (Wednesday, October 5, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that the North Texas Fair Housing Center has been awarded a $108,805 Fair Housing Organizations Initiative (FHOI) grant by HUD. The FHOI grants assist organizations in building their capacity to become viable fair housing enforcement organizations. The grants will also establish new fair housing enforcement organizations in unserved or underserved areas of North Texas. “Federal assistance in these areas is pivotal to the success of our fair housing laws. This will enable local organizations to enforce the laws that aim to protect our seniors, the disabled, and other needy families from discrimination when simply trying to put a roof over their heads,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “At a time of rising rent costs and renewed uncertainty in the world economy, it is more important than ever to ensure that adequate housing is accessible to greater numbers of people.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.16.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES TWO DOT GRANTS FOR DFW AND LOVE FIELD Washington, DC (Friday, September 16, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) under the U.S. Department of Transportation will award two federal grants for over $7 million to Dallas Love Field and DFW Airports. The funds will be used to purchase low emission air units at Dallas Love Field as well as to improve runway lighting and design runway rehabilitation at DFW airport. "I am very pleased to announce the FAA will award these funds to Dallas regional airports. Dallas Love Field, which I represent in Congress, will receive $1.978 million for the installation of pre-conditioned air units that will improve air quality at the airport and reduce reliance on conventional fuel as part of the airport's Voluntary Airport Low-Emission (VALE) Project," Congresswoman Johnson said. "Further, DFW airport will receive $5.026 million for the design of runway lighting and runway rehabilitation to enhance airport visibility and safety for pilots as they are taking off, landing, and taxiing. As the most senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and a member of the Aviation Subcommittee, I am proud to make these important announcements which will help ensure that Dallas has the finest and safest air service available," Congresswoman Johnson concluded. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.15.2011	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson Joins the Progressive Caucus in Announcing the ‘Rebuild the American Dream’ Jobs Platform Washington, DC – (Thursday, September 15, 2011) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today supporting the Progressive Caucus in announcing the ‘Rebuild the American Dream’ Jobs Platform: Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined her colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) to announce the Rebuild the American Dream Jobs Platform. The six principles of the platform are areas congresswoman Johnson and the Progressive Caucus have been championing for some time. These principles of: Reviving American manufacturing, rebuilding infrastructure, preparing citizens for jobs of the future, laying the pathway to lead the “Green Technology” revolution, a fair tax system, and ensuring that jobs that are created are quality “good paying” jobs are an effort to put Americans back to work. “The Rebuild the American Dream Framework is the best way forward on jobs. It outlines what we need to do to put Americans back to work,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We can strengthen our nation’s future and begin to address the unemployment crisis simultaneously by implementing the principles in this Jobs Framework.” The full text of the Rebuild the American Dream Framework can be found here (CLICK TO READ FRAMEWORK). ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.09.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON STATEMENT: TEN YEARS AFTER 9/11Washington, DC – (Friday, September 9, 2011) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today, commemorating the anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001: “Ten years ago on Sunday, America suffered the most destructive terrorist attack in its history. For those who lost a loved one in the Twin Towers, the Pentagon, or Pennsylvania, and for hundreds of first responders who continue to suffer the adverse health effects from inhaling dust and debris, the wounds of September 11th are no doubt still fresh. In honor of those who lost their lives, as well as the members of our armed forces who have died in our country’s service in the years since, this Sunday is a day consecrated to their memories. We must honor the personal sacrifice of every American who has been affected by this tragedy. The strength of the American people has never been tested so greatly, yet our resolve has never been greater. Even as new threats emerge, we must and we will continue to unite and rise above those who attempt to threaten freedom and democracy throughout the free world.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.08.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S REACTION TO THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH ON JOBS Washington, DC – (Thursday, September 8, 2011) –Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement this evening in response to President Obama’s speech on the economy and jobs. “I applaud the President’s remarks tonight on moving forward with job creation initiatives and especially his sense of urgency. I am in support of President’s plan, the American Jobs Act. Recently, I was part of the President’s Council on Jobs and Competiveness which met in Dallas where North Texans discussed many of the same points he discussed tonight in his speech.” Congresswoman Johnson said.“I have always believed that the investments we make in research, education, and innovation today will create the jobs of tomorrow. I support the President’s plan to help our innovators and entrepreneurs create new technologies, rehire quality teachers for our classrooms, and build new companies and create the high-paying, high-skills jobs that will keep our economy strong and continue to improve the standard of living for all of us.” The American Jobs Act would include tax credits for companies hiring veterans, aid to state and local governments to prevent the layoffs of police, firefighters and up to 280,000 teachers, the modernization of 35,000 public schools, and a multi-billion dollar infrastructure fund to help modernize roads, bridges, railroads and airports. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.02.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASES THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON CELEBRATING LABOR DAY Washington, DC – (Friday, September 2, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement about the Labor Day holiday recognized on Monday, September 5, 2011.“We must never forget the important history behind the Labor Day holiday that commemorates the civil and economic achievements of workers across the country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The holiday not only allows the nation to pay tribute to the American worker, but reminds us of the value in having rights to fair wages, the importance of enforcing equal opportunity, and the chance at achieving the American Dream.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES GRANT FOR THE GREATER DALLAS COUNCIL ON ALCOHOL & DRUG ABUSE Washington, DC – (Thursday, September 1, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson congratulates the Greater Dallas Council on Alcohol & Drug Abuse on receiving the Office of National Drug Policy’s (ONDCP) Drug Free Communities (DFC) Support Program grant in the amount of $125,000. “The Drug Free Communities program has already proven to be an effective tool in reducing substance abuse, and I am delighted to now bring the backing of the Federal government to aid local organizations throughout Dallas in its mission,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Prevention is the key to success in the war against drugs, and I fully support any program that will provide our children with the necessary tools to make more informed decisions about their future.”Under the premise that local problems need local solutions, the DCF program is designed to support communities as they mobilize individuals and organizations to reduce youth substance abuse. The DCF program is directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.17.2011	DALLAS CITY COUNCIL HONORS CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON From left to right: Deputy Mayor Pro Tem Tennell Atkins, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, Mayor Mike Rawlings, Mayor Pro Tem Pauline Medrano and Councilmember Vonciel Jones Hill. Courtesy: City of DallasDallas, Texas – (Wednesday, August 17, 2011)– Today, Mayor Michael Rawlings of Dallas extended a special recognition to Congresswoman Johnson for her relentless efforts toward improving Dallas and honored her outstanding, innovative, and impactful work on behalf of local governments throughout the North Central Texas region, the State of Texas, and around the country. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASES THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON THE BUDGET CONTROL ACT AGREEMENT Washington, DC – (Monday, August 01, 2011)– “Today, I voted in support of the Budget Control Act Agreement in order to raise our nation’s debt limit and prevent our nation from falling into the disastrous economic abyss of default. The bill passed today is far from ideal and was a difficult choice, but I did not want to send our country into default and continue partisan gridlock that plagues both chambers of Congress at the expense of our economy. This bill represents the most reasonable agreement that has the support of the House, Senate, and the President.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.27.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES FUNDING FOR THE SIX FLOOR MUSEUM AT DEALEY PLAZA Washington, DC –(Wednesday, July 27, 2011)–Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that The Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza will receive a $40,000 grant from the National Endowment for Humanities (NEH). The Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza has been recognized by the NEH for its project- Shared Stories: Development of Oral History Programming about the Kennedy Assassination.“Congratulations to The Sixth Floor Museum at Dealey Plaza for its on-going Oral History Project that preserves personal recollections regarding the life and death of former PresidentJohn F. Kennedy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am so proud that people from all over the world come to experience this museum, which features this historical permanent exhibit, as well as offers monthly programs and educational resources.”The Oral History Collection includes the memories of eyewitnesses, local law enforcement, journalists, civic and political leaders, White House officials, filmmakers and researchers, Kennedy family acquaintances, 1960s schoolchildren, Parkland Hospital personnel, Museum founders and others related to the events of November 22, 1963. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.21.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SECURES $3 MILLION FOR DOWNTOWN DALLAS STREETCAR PROJECT Washington, DC – (Thursday, July 21, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) will award DART an additional $3 million for the Downtown Dallas Streetcar Project. The funds will be administered from Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant program established under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, which awarded the project $23 million in 2010. The Downtown Dallas Streetcar project develops a streetcar line that originates in Downtown Dallas at Harwood and Main Street, and continues down Main Street to Houston Street through the largest job center in the North Texas area.The Dallas Downtown Streetcar project was originally selected because it aligned well with the Department’s TIGER selection criteria of livability, economic competitiveness, and sustainability. The project increases livability by improving transit options and linking walkable, mixed-use neighborhoods with employment centers throughout the region. The project encourages the use of energy-efficient transit options rather than less fuel-efficient modes of transportation. The project also increases economic competitiveness by enhancing the ability of the downtown area to attract transit-oriented development. In addition, it provides sustainability for future riders.“I am very happy to announce the Dallas Downtown Streetcar project will receive an additional $3 million from the Federal Transit Administration in order to build a passing track on the originally planned streetcar line that will improve service to riders,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These funds will be added to the original 2010 federal investment of $23 million from ARRA for this project that will provide streetcar service from Union Station in Downtown Dallas to Oak Cliff.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.20.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CONGRATULATES SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY ON TALENT SEARCH GRANT AWARD Washington, DC – (Wednesday, July 20, 2011) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson congratulates Southern Methodist University (SMU) for being selected to receive two grants under the Department of Education’s Talent Search Program. The grants will both be in the amount of $230,000.00 for a five year period. The Talent Search grant program identifies and assists individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds who have the potential to succeed in higher education. The program provides academic, career, and financial counseling to its participants and encourages them to graduate from high school and continue on to complete their postsecondary education. The program publicizes the availability of financial aid and assists participants with the postsecondary application process. It also encourages persons who have not completed education programs at the secondary and postsecondary level to enter or reenter and complete postsecondary education. “I congratulate SMU on receiving funds to assist their Talent Search program,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “TRIO and Talent Search are outstanding programs that help create a pipeline to higher education and academic success. The evidence of their success is the many students who have participated in these programs and gone onto to accomplish great things. I am so pleased that SMU will be using these funds to continue the Talent Search program in the Dallas Metroplex.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.13.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES HOMEOWNERS LOAN PROGRAM TO HELP QUALIFIED HOMEOWNERS WITH THEIR MORTGAGES $135 Million Now Available in Texas to Help Homeowners at Risk of Foreclosure with Interest Free, Forgivable Loans-Deadline for Pre-Application Worksheet is July 22,2011 Washington, DC – (Wednesday, July 13, 2011)– Congresswoman Johnson announces that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) in conjunction with NeighborWorks America has launched the Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program (EHLP) to help homeowners who are at risk of foreclosure in Texas.The Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program (EHLP) can provide eligible homeowners with a 0% interest, forgivable loan that pays past-due mortgage payments (principal, interest, taxes, insurance, attorney fees), as well as a portion of the homeowner’s mortgage payment for up to 24 consecutive months, or up to $50,000, whichever comes first, and provided that certain eligibility requirements are maintained.“Curtailing the number of foreclosures nationally is essential to getting our economy back on track. The Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program will help homeowners, who have fallen on hard economic times, stay in their homes,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This assistance is not only economically beneficial, but morally important. We cannot simply sit back and watch millions of American families lose their homes. I commend our former Democratic-leadership for authorizing this program last year, and thank President Obama for his continued support of economically struggling families.”The EHLP program will pay a portion of an approved applicant’s monthly mortgage including missed mortgage payments or past due charges including principal, interest, taxes, insurances, and attorney fees. Nationally, EHLP is expected to aid up to 30,000 distressed borrowers, with an average loan of approximately $35,000. Congresswoman Johnson voted in favor of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to implement the Emergency Homeowners’ Loan Program (EHLP). The program will assist homeowners who have experienced a reduction in income and are at risk of foreclosure due to involuntary unemployment and underemployment due to economic conditions or a medical condition. HUD has allocated $135,418,959 to fund this emergency loan program in Texas. Contact information for participating agencies, the Pre-Applicant Screening Worksheet and more information on the EHLP program and its eligibility requirements can be found at www.FindEHLP.org or by calling toll free at 855-FIND-EHLP (346-3345). ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.08.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ATTENDS VIEWING OF FINAL NASA SHUTTLE LAUNCH Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson is joined by Congresswomen Frederica Wilson, FL-17( on left) and Terri Sewell, AL-7 (on right), who are also members of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, to view the final NASA shuttle launch from Capitol Hill. Washington, DC – (July 8 , 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson shared her admiration for the brave astronauts who are on the final National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) shuttle Atlantis, NASA and the contractor team that has made the Space Shuttle Program a cornerstone of this nation’s space program for the past 30 years. The Atlantis has flown 33 times and traveled 124 million miles since its maiden flight in October of 1985. “The Space Shuttle has been a very visible symbol of American ingenuity and of America’s commitment to the peaceful exploration of space,” said Congresswoman Johnson, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “We need to keep that inspirational quality alive even after Atlantis rolls to a stop at the conclusion of its mission and the 30-year Space Shuttle era comes to an end. We must continue to provide our children and grandchildren with that kind of inspiration in the future. We can best honor its legacy by maintaining our commitment to a strong and vibrant human space flight program through productive utilization of the International Space Station and expeditious development of the crewed spacecraft and launch vehicles NASA will need to once again travel beyond low-Earth orbit.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT HONORING THE 45TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE MEDICARE PROGRAM Washington, DC (July 1, 2011) “Today, we celebrate the tremendous success of Medicare in providing health care security to seniors and people with disabilities. Medicare, one of the most successful programs ever created in this country, provides guaranteed, affordable health care for 39 million seniors including 854, 000 seniors living in North Texas. On the 45th anniversary of the implementation of Medicare, I reject the Republican notion that the program must be abandoned and replaced with a new system that shifts costs to seniors. I will continue to work with my Democratic colleagues to uphold our promise to seniors today and to future generations so that Medicare continues to serve as a source of health for all Americans.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.23.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ENJOYS THE SWEET TASTE OF VICTORYCongresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (FL-17) prepare for their celebratory lunch in honor of the Dallas Maverick’s NBA Championship over the Miami Heat.Washington, DC (Thursday, June 23, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson enjoyed the Miami meal promised to her by Congresswoman Frederica Wilson (FL-17) for losing the wager the Congresswomen made on the 2011 National Basketball Association (NBA) Finals.Both Congresswomen waged a meal from their congressional districts if their team lost. Congresswoman Johnson waged an authentic Texas-style meal if the Dallas Mavericks couldn’t bring home a victory, and Congresswoman Wilson waged Joe’s Stone Crab if the Miami Heat failed to shine.“Joe’s Stone Crab is delicious,” said Congresswoman Johnson during lunch.“I was planning on enjoying Texas-style barbecue,” said Congresswoman Wilson. “Maybe next year,” she added. Besides sharing a passion for basketball, both Congresswomen are active members of Alpha Kappa Alpha, Sorority Inc. and The Links, Inc.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.22.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON MEETS ROMANIAN AMBASSADOR Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Romanian Ambassador Adrian VieritaWashington, DC (Wednesday, June 22, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Romanian Ambassador Adrian Vierita discussed a wide-range of mutual interests such as energy, trade and agriculture. Congresswoman Johnson also recognized the sizeable number of Romanian-Americans who reside in the 30th Congressional District of Texas. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.17.2011	HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES COME TOGETHER TO CONGRATULATE DALLAS MAVERICKSBipartisan appreciation goes out to the 2011 National Basketball Association Champions Washington, DC – (Friday, June 17, 2011) The Texas House of Representatives Congressional Delegation and more than 40 House Members joined Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson in introducing House Resolution 311 on June 16th. The resolution congratulates the owner, coaches and each team member of the 2011 National Basketball Association Champions, the Dallas Mavericks. “I want to acknowledge everyone who helped make the Mavs the 2011 NBA Champions,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We are proud of all of you for never losing your focus this season and delivering a great joy to the City of Dallas!” *Attached please find House Resolution 311 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.17.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON VISITS WITH WINNING STUDENTS FROM NATIONAL SCIENCE CONTESTCongresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson visits with K-12 students who won the national Explora Vision science competition.Washington, DC (Friday, June 17, 2011) – Congresswoman Johnson congratulated K-12 students who won the Explora Vision contest, a national science competition for grades K-12 in which students are asked to research a technology of their choice and explore what that technology could be in 20 years. “We have an education crisis in this country, and there is a very real possibility that we will lose our competitive edge as a country if we cannot find ways to better engage, inspire and invest in our youth throughout the K-12 pipeline in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math. We must remain committed to investing in the sciences,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These students, their parents and teachers all should be congratulated as this nation needs this kind of dedication to remain leaders in innovation.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES NEW ANALYSIS THAT SHOWS THE NEGATIVE IMPACT OF THE REPUBLICAN MEDICARE PLAN ON THE 30TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT OF TEXAS Washington, DC – (Tuesday, June 14, 2011)Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the latest analysis showing how the Republican Medicare plan will negatively impact residents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas. The Republican plan raises costs for seniors and individuals with disabilities enrolled in Medicare, reduces their benefits, and puts private insurance companies in charge of the program. The proposal would also increase the cost of Medicare by more than $6,000 per year for future beneficiaries.The Republican proposal would have adverse impacts on seniors and disabled individuals in the 30th Congressional District of Texas who are currently enrolled in Medicare. It would: Increase prescription drug costs for 4,800 Medicare beneficiaries in the district who enter the Part D donut hole, forcing them to pay an extra $47 million for drugs over the next decade.Eliminate new preventive care benefits for 71,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. The Republican proposal would have even greater impacts on individuals in the 30th Congressional District of Texas who are age 54 and younger and are not currently enrolled in Medicare. It would: Deny 630,000 individuals age 54 and younger in the district access to Medicare’s guaranteed benefits.Increase the out-of-pocket costs of health coverage by over $6,000 per year in 2022 and by almost $12,000 per year in 2032 for the 102,000 individuals in the district who are between the ages of 44 and 54. Require the 102,000 individuals in the district between the ages of 44 and 54 to save an additional $23.8 billion for their retirement – an average of $182,000 to $287,000 per individual – to pay for the increased cost of health coverage over their lifetimes. Younger residents of the district will have to save even higher amounts to cover their additional medical costs.Raise the Medicare eligibility age by at least one year to age 66 or more for 58,000 individuals in the district who are age 44 to 49 and by two years to age 67 for 525,000 individuals in the district who are age 43 or younger.“The Republican proposal would immediately cut benefits and would require current Medicare beneficiaries in my congressional district to pay an extra $47 million for prescription drugs over the next decade. That is why I am fighting to stop this reckless Republican plan to end Medicare as we know it," said Congresswoman Johnson. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.14.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CONGRATULATES THE DALLAS MAVERICKS ON WINNING THE 2011 NBA CHAMPIONSHIP Washington, DC - (Monday, June 13, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Dallas Mavericks’ victory over the Miami Heat for the 2011 NBA Championship.“Congratulations to the 2011 NBA Champions, the Dallas Mavericks. Many people said that the Mavericks were the underdogs, but those critics were silenced after game six when the Dallas Mavericks were named the Champions of the 2011 NBA Finals. The Mavericks, which were led by their team captain and MVP Dirk Nowitzki, showed the world that it takes a team effort to be victorious on basketball’s biggest stage.“I look forward to continued celebrations and even more to my delicious Miami stone crab dinner that my colleague, friend and sorority sister, Representative Frederica Wilson owes me for losing our friendly wager on the series. I am extremely proud of the entire Dallas Mavericks organization for this grand accomplishment and for once again making Dallas the home of Champions!” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.03.2011	SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY HONORS CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON WITH THE DISTINGUISHED ALUMNI AWARDCongresswoman Johnson receives the highest honor bestowed on a Southern Methodist University graduate. Immediate Past Chair - SMU Alumni Board, Ken Malcolmson ’74 and SMU - President R. Gerald Turner present Congresswoman Johnson ’76 with the Distinguished Alumni Award. Washington, DC – (Thursday, June 02, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the Distinguished Alumni Award from Southern Methodist University (SMU) on Wednesday, June 01, 2011 at the NEWSEUM in Washington, DC.Approximately 200 people joined in the celebration for Congresswoman Johnson as she accepted SMU’s Distinguished Alumni Award, the highest honor bestowed on its graduates who have distinguished themselves through outstanding professional accomplishments, exemplary community service and good citizenship.“I am very proud to be a part of the SMU family and I am extremely honored to be the recipient of the Distinguished Alumni Award,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “SMU has made amazing strides to ensure that its campus reflects the many faces of this great diverse country and that is what makes SMU one of the best universities in the nation.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.01.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON APPLAUDS THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES FOR TAKING STEPS TOWARDS REDUCING PREMIUMS FOR TEXAS RESIDENTS WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONSWashington, DC – (Tuesday, May 31, 2011) – The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced today new steps to reduce premiums and make it easier for Americans to enroll in the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan (PCIP) in Texas. PCIP is a new program created by the Affordable Care Act to help uninsured people with a pre-existing condition get high quality care at affordable prices and serves as a bridge to 2014 when insurers will no longer be allowed to deny coverage to people with any pre-existing condition, like cancer, diabetes, and asthma. “The Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan changes lives, and in many cases, literally saves lives,” said HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. “We need to reach more people and these changes help us do that.” Premium prices in Texas for PCIP dropped by 23.6%. Now a 50 year old in Texas can get comprehensive health coverage for as low as $306 per month. These new, reduced premiums take effect July 1, 2011.“I whole-heartedly applaud the United States Department of Health and Human Services’ recent steps to reduce premiums and make it easier for Americans to enroll in the Pre-Existing Condition Insurance Plan,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Up to half of Americans below the age of 65 have pre-existing conditions and hopefully these new measures will increase enrollment by ensuring that the millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions, who would otherwise have a hard time obtaining coverage altogether, have access to affordable, high-quality health care.”Not only has PCIP coverage become even more affordable, but enrolling is even easier. Starting July 1, 2011, residents of Texas applying for coverage in the Federally-administered PCIP can prove their pre-existing condition simply by providing a letter from a doctor, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner dated within the past 12 months stating that they have or, at any time in the past, had a medical condition, disability, or illness. This option became available to children under age 19 in February, and we are extending this pathway to all applicants regardless of age. Applicants will no longer have to wait on an insurance company to send them a denial letter. Applicants will still need to meet other eligibility criteria.PCIP provides comprehensive health coverage, including primary and specialty care, hospital care, prescription drugs, home health and hospice care, skilled nursing care and preventive health and maternity care. It limits annual out-of-pocket spending and does not carve out benefits the people need. Texans enrolled in PCIP have access to a provider network that includes 47,540 physicians, 4,405 pharmacies and 579 hospitals throughout the State. To qualify for this program, a person applying for coverage must be: a U.S. citizen or residing here legally; have been without health coverage for at least 6 months before applying; and have a pre-existing condition or have been denied coverage because of a health condition. Eligibility is not based on income and enrollees are not charged a higher premium because of a medical condition.To further enhance the program, beginning this fall, HHS will begin paying agents and brokers for successfully connecting eligible people with the PCIP program. This step will help reach those who are eligible but un-enrolled. Several States have experimented with such payments with good success. This is a part of continuing HHS outreach efforts with States, insurers, providers, and agents and brokers to reach more eligible people and let them know that coverage is available. HHS is also working with insurers to notify people about the PCIP option in their State when their application for health insurance is denied.To find a chart showing changes to PCIP premiums in the States with Federally-administered PCIP programs, visit www.HealthCare.gov/news/factsheets/pcip05312011a.html. For more information, including eligibility, plan benefits and rates, and how to apply, visit www.pcip.govand click on “Find Your State.” Then select Texas from a map of the United States or from the drop-down menu. The PCIP Call Center is open from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. Eastern Time. Call toll-free 1-866-717-5826 (TTY 1-866-561-1604). ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.31.2011	2011 NBA CONFERENCE CHAMPIONS DALLAS MAVERICKS AND MIAMI HEAT SPUR CONGRESSIONAL RIVALRY Confident Congresswomen Make Friendly Wager on NBA Finals Washington, DC – (Tuesday, May 31, 2011) – The 2011NBA Finals between the Dallas Mavericks and Miami Heat has prompted a rivalry between Congresswomen Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30) and Frederica Wilson (FL-17) as they make a friendly wager on who will win the NBA Championship.If the Mavericks win, Congresswoman Wilson provides the 30th Congressional of Texas Representative with a taste of seafood from Miami. If the Heat wins, Congresswoman Johnson owes the 17th Congressional Representative of Florida an authentic Texas barbeque dinner.“Miami will feel the real effects of the ‘Texas Heat’ when Dirk and company do an old fashioned Texas round-up of Miami’s new talents,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “And with this bet, I look forward to capping off a fantastic season with some classic Miami food and much deserved words of praise from my friend, Congresswoman Wilson. Go Mavs!”“In the words of Lebron James, I can’t wait for our team to take their talents to Dallas. It may be hot in Texas, but I don’t think the Mavs will be able to handle the ‘Heat’ this time,” said Congresswoman Wilson. “Go Miami!”Besides sharing a passion for basketball, both Congresswomen are active members of Alpha Kappa Alpha, Sorority Inc. and are looking forward to representing the winners in the finals. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla. Contacts:Communications Director, Dena Craig, (202)225-8885 (Office of Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson)Communications Director, Mahen Gunaratna (202)225-4506 (Office of Congresswoman Frederica Wilson)
05.27.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RECOGNIZES MEMORIAL DAYWashington, DC – (Friday, May 27, 2011) - Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement honoring our veterans and their families on Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 30:“I would like to express my sincere and heartfelt appreciation to our nation’s brave military men and women who are presently serving, the veterans who have served and to all the family members who have lost loved ones while serving our great country. Their sacrifice to our country is remembered everyday by Americans, but especially honored today as we reflect on Memorial Day and remember those service men and women who are no longer with us.“We can never fully repay our nation’s debt of gratitude to our nation’s veterans, but this week the House of Representatives honored its commitment by passing the National Defense Reauthorization Act that I was proud to support. This bipartisan legislation provides our service men and women with the tools, resources and equipment needed to protect our nation. It also provides pay raises for our troops and strengthens healthcare services for those who are serving and their families.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.27.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON INVITES YOUTH TO APPLY FOR THE 5TH ANNUAL YOUTH SUMMIT & DIVERSITY DIALOGUEDallas, TX (Friday, May 27, 2011)- Congresswoman Johnson announces that she is now accepting applications for her 5th Annual Youth Summit & Diversity Dialogue that will be held on the campus of Southern Methodist University on August 9, 2011.All participants in the summit will have a full day of diversity and cultural awareness education. The day starts with the opening ceremony where students hear from an engaging panel of speakers and then break out into groups and rotate between hands-on workshops.The 5th Annual Youth Summit & Diversity Dialogue will have 50 open slots for students between the ages of 13-17 from the DFW Metroplex. Space is limited, so interested students should apply immediately. Students who are interested in this opportunity should: complete an application, write a one page essay, and obtain 2 letters of recommendation to be considered. “Each year, I hold the Youth Summit & Diversity Dialogue to foster diversity and stimulate dialogue about cultural competence in our youth,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This day-long summit gives students the opportunity to increase awareness, recognize differences, and adopt new solutions that promote mutual understanding.”To apply for the 2011 Youth Summit & Diversity Dialogue, please visit this page. Deadline for the application is June 30, 2011.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.27.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON WELCOMES AWARD WINNING LINCOLN HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER TO WASHINGTON, DCCongresswoman Johnson congratulates Lincoln High School teacher Shirley Cooper for being named All American Teacher of the Year.Washington, DC – (Friday, May 27, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson thanked Lincoln High School teacher Shirley Cooper for her commitment to improving the lives of the students in the 30th Congressional District. Cooper, who was one of the 23 teachers recently honored by the National Math & Science Initiative (NMSI) with its All American Teacher of the Year Award, also participated in NMSI’s Advanced Placement Training and Incentive Program (APTIP).“I was so pleased to meet such an outstanding educator as Shirley Cooper. Ms. Cooper has been named an All American Teacher of the Year by the National Math & Science Initiative. The work that she is doing at Lincoln High School is outstanding, and the achievements of her students are a testament to her success,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We need more teachers like Ms. Cooper in the areas of science and math. She is a leader; inspiring students to new heights and improving learning at Lincoln High School. The recognition she is receiving is eminently well-deserved, and I congratulate her on this award.”The All American Teacher of the Year Award is given to outstanding math, science and English teachers for their remarkable contributions to their students and to the teaching profession. For more information on NMSI and its programs visit www.apstrategies.org.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.18.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON AND THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS ANNOUNCE $120,000 IN GRANTS TO SUPPORT THREE ARTISTIC DALLAS PROJECTSDallas, Texas – (Wednesday, May 18, 2011)Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and the National Endowment for the Arts announced $120,000 in grants to the 30th Congressional District of Texas to help support creative and artistic projects. The following Dallas projects receiving the grants are: The Dallas Black Dance Theatre received $20,000 to support and restaging and the presentation of Pigs and Fishes, choreographed by Elisa Monte.The Dallas Museum of Art received $85,000 to support online archival exhibition resources. The Dallas Opera received $15,000 to support the school performances program featuring Mozart’s Die Zauberflote (The Magic Flute).“Arts projects across the nation seek funding from the National Endowment for the Arts, and I am proud to announce that Dallas will be a recipient of three in this round of grants,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Congratulations to the Dallas Black Dance Theatre, the Dallas Museum of Art and the Dallas Opera, which will be receiving $20,000, $85,000, and $15,000 respectively for three of their innovative projects. Each dollar of the grants generates an average of six dollars from non-federal sources, so these awards promise to be very enriching for our vibrant arts community here in Dallas.”The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) was established by Congress in 1965 as an independent agency of the federal government. To date, the NEA has awarded more than $4 billion to support artistic excellence, creativity, and innovation for the benefit of individuals and communities. The NEA extends its work through partnerships with state arts agencies, local leaders, other federal agencies, and the philanthropic sector. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.11.2011	DALLAS TO RECEIVE $15 MILLION GRANT FOR THE PLANNING OF HIGH SPEED RAIL Washington, DC – (Tuesday, May 10, 2011)– Congresswoman Johnson applauds the Department of Transportation for their intention to award $15 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA or "stimulus") funding for the preliminary engineering and project-level environmental analysis of a high-speed rail route from the Dallas-Fort Worth Area to Houston. “Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston are two of the largest metropolitan areas in the country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am very proud that Texas will receive $15 million in order to plan and design this important high-speed passenger rail project to connect these great cities. I’m proud to have voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that made this grant possible. ”“As the nation's fastest growing region it is essential our residents have transportation choices,” said Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) President and Executive Officer, Gary Thomas. “We are pleased to have the opportunity to further explore how high speed rail could serve the citizens of Texas and specifically the citizens of North Texas.”The funds are part of a $2 billion ARRA grant that includes $423 million that newly elected Republican Gov. Rick Scott of Florida rejected. The funding will come from the Federal Railroad Administration. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.10.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES THE WINNER OF THE 30th CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION Congresswoman Johnson congratulates Sarah Rose Morris, 10th grader from Booker T. Washington High School, for coming in first place and representing the 30th Congressional District in the Congressional Art Competition.Dallas, Texas (Tuesday, May 10, 2011)– Congresswoman Johnson announced the 30th Congressional District Winner of the 2011 Congressional Art Competition on Friday, May 7th at a reception at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center.The annual art competition sponsored by the U.S. House of Representatives recognizes artistic high school students from every Congressional District in the country. This year’s winning piece of art titled, Tea Time was created by Sarah Rose Morris, a 10th Grade Student from Booker T. Washington High School.Morris will now have the opportunity to travel to Washington, D.C. in June and join district winners from across the country for a special ceremony recognizing all of their talents. Tea Time, along with the other winning pieces, will hang in the famous Cannon Tunnel in the U.S. Capitol for the next year.For the past 19 years Congresswoman Johnson has encouraged high school students in the 30th Congressional District to showcase their artistic talents by entering the Congressional Art Competition.“I look forward the Congressional Art Competition every year, it is a wonderful way to recognize the importance of the Arts and to celebrate the hard work of the students,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am always amazed by the artistic abilities and talents of the high school participants and very excited that this year’s winning piece, Tea Time that will be on display representing the 30th Congressional District in the Capitol, for all to admire.” *SEE the winning picture Tea Time : https://www.flickr.com/photos/ebjtx30/sets/72157626697877472/ ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.10.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CELEBRATES NATIONAL WEEK President of the American Nurses Association, Marla Weston and Congresswoman Johnson share a laugh at the 112th Congressional Nursing Caucus.Washington, DC (Tuesday, May 10, 2011) - “As the first elected nurse to be elected to U.S. Congress, I know firsthand the importance of the work our healthcare professionals do every day. Outstanding men and women nurses, who work hard to save lives and maintain the health of millions of individuals, will celebrate National Nurses Week from May 6-12, 2011. I believe that any American who has ever been cared for by a nurse should join in the celebration of National Nurses Week,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “From the school nurse we visited as a child, to the caregiver for our elderly parents, nurses have made an immeasurable contribution to our society.”National Nurses Week is celebrated annually beginning on May 6th, the birthday of Florence Nightingale and founder of modern nursing. The week is a time to acknowledge the tremendous service of nurses throughout the country. National Nurses Week is sponsored by the American Nurses Association (ANA). ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.05.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON WARNS AFRICAN-AMERICANS ABOUT STROKE AND OTHER CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES Washington, DC (May 5, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined the Congressional Black Caucus and the American Heart Association in the fight to increase the awareness of stroke and other cardiovascular diseases among African-Americans.A recent survey commissioned by the American Heart Association revealed the disconnect between young people’s perception of their risk for stroke and the reality that African-Americans are nearly twice as likely to have a stroke compared to their white counterparts.“As African-Americans we have to be aware of our sodium intake and understand that our food choices can directly affect our overall health,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We also have to be diligent in having our blood pressure and cholesterol levels checked regularly.”Throughout the month of May, which is American Stroke Month, the American Heart Association, its partners and volunteers will stage numerous events across the country to raise awareness among African-Americans about stroke, its risk factors, warning signs and treatment options. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.05.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON CELEBRATES CINCO DE MAYO, HISPANIC CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE NATION EL CONGRESIST JOHNSON CELEBRA EL CINCO DE MAYO Y LAS CONTRIBUCIONES DE LOS HISPANOS A LA NACIÓN WASHINGTON, D.C. (Thursday May 5, 2011) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joins millions of Americans in celebrating Cinco de Mayo. This day marks the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862. “Today, we celebrate the importance of Hispanics in this country, specifically the contributions Mexican Americans have made and continue to make and how their achievements strengthen our nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This date is of special significance because it reminds us that all peoples -- regardless of their race or color -- need freedom, liberty and self-determination and that all cultures are worthy of respect. For Mexico, Cinco de Mayo has become a symbol of unity and patriotism in its history. In the United States, it is also a celebration of the rich cultural heritage Mexican Americans have brought with them.” "Hispanics share with other Americans the common goals of freedom, opportunity, and a chance to build a better life. Today, we say gracias for making our economy stronger and our culture more vibrant; and gracias for helping to improve our society” Congresswoman Johnson added.Latinos are the fastest-growing minority group in the United States, Congresswoman Johnson noted. They are leading a record number of small businesses -- 1.2 million, with annual revenues of nearly $200 billion. The fastest-growing small business sector is Latina-owned firms. The beginning of the 112th Congress equals the largest number of Latinos in history, with 31 members in the House and the Senate, the same number that entered the 111th Congress. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.03.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON TALKS FUTURE FUNDING FOR TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE 30TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT WITH DALLAS CITY OFFICIALS Washington, DC (Tuesday, May 03, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson met with Dallas City Officials to discussthe city’s legislative priorities for the year in Congress, and about the Trinity River Corridor Project specifically.“It was great to see so many friends and partners in my office today to talk about the City of Dallas and the great projects they are working on,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Trinity River Corridor Project is one of my highest priorities in Congress and I’m grateful for City Officials who are also dedicated to completing the project.”The Trinity River Corridor Project will increase flood protection, deliver improved mobility solutions, provide community revitalization, economic development and recreation for its citizens.To view other pictures from this meeting go to https://www.flickr.com/photos/ebjtx30/sets/72157626516048835/show/. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.03.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RECEIVES THE "2011 EXCELLENCE IN GOVERNMENT AWARD"American Society of Anesthesiologists honors Congresswoman Johnson’s legislative efforts to fix anesthesia payment disparities. From left to right:President Elect of the Texas Society of Anesthesiologists, Dr. Tillmann Hein, M.D. and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. Washington, DC – (Wednesday, May 04, 2011) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the “2011 Excellence in Government Award” from the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) at the group’s annual legislative meeting in Washington, DC on Tuesday, May 3, 2011. Dr. Tillmann Hein, representing Texas, presented the award to Congresswoman Johnson in honor of her legislative efforts regarding anesthesia payment disparities."I am honored to receive this award from the American Society of Anesthesiologists and I look forward to continuing my work with them to raise and maintain the standards of the medical practice of anesthesiology and improve the care of the patient. There is no other person as important as an anesthesiologist in an operating room,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I know that doctors are important, but anesthesiologists are solely responsible for preparing patients for surgery, monitoring them while in surgery and caring for their recovery." To see more photographs from the event click here: https://www.flickr.com/photos/ebjtx30/sets/72157626514365641/ ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.03.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON FEATURES WOMEN OF NATURAL DISASTERS DURING THE 2011 DALLAS PEACE CONFERENCEFrom left to right:Peace Education Coordinator, Laura Seipp; Senior Advisor - Oxfam America, Angela Bruce-Raeburn; Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson; International Consultant and Advisor, Stephenie Foster; Director Dallas Office of Homeland Security and Emergency Management, Lisa Chambers; and Dallas Morning News Photographer, Mona Reeder. Dallas, Texas (Tuesday, May 03, 2011)– Congresswoman Johnson’s 2011 Dallas Peace Conference, which was held at Fair Park’s Music Hall on April 30th, featured a panel of diverse women who discussed the important role women have in promoting peace in time of natural disasters. The 2011 Dallas Peace Conference is a part of Congresswoman Johnson’s “A World of Women for World Peace” initiative that started in 2001 to increase women’s roles in preventing and resolving international conflicts. Congresswoman Johnson’s goal is to move beyond politics, race, class and geographical boundaries to build a culture of peace.“Before the conference, I met with women leaders in East Asia where I participated in talks to build peaceful relations between those countries and the United States,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It was rewarding to both share my experiences and listen to the powerful 2011 Dallas Conference panelist share their passion for peace especially in times such as these where natural disasters have been ever so prevalent.”To see more photos from the 2011 Dallas Peace Conference go to https://www.flickr.com/photos/ebjtx30/sets/72157626633178480/show/. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.02.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON THE DEATH OF OSAMA BIN LADEN Washington, DC – (Monday, May 2, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement on the death of Osama bin Laden:“Today, Americans welcome the news of Osama Bin Laden’s death, one decade after the tragedy of September 11th. I want to commend President Obama, our men and women in uniform, and our intelligence service for their great efforts. I also want to commend President Bush, who rallied our nation in our moment of need on 9/11. The death of Osama bin Laden is historic, but the fight against terrorism continues. As President Obama said yesterday, ‘Let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11. I know that it has, at times, frayed. Yet today’s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the American people.’ Indeed, this great milestone against terrorism reminds us that we must remain united against the forces that divide us within our borders and abroad.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.19.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON TO HOST “A WORLD OF WOMEN FOR WORLD PEACE”Dallas Peace Conference 2011 on Women of Natural DisastersDallas, Texas – (Tuesday, April 19, 2011) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that she will be holding a Dallas Peace Conference on Women of Natural Disasters on Saturday, April 30, 2011 from Noon to 2 p.m. at Music Hall in FAIR PARK, 909 First Avenue, Dallas, Texas 75210.“I began ‘A World of Women for World Peace’ to bring greater visibility to women who lead peacemaking, peacekeeping, and peace-building activities in their communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Over the course of my meeting female leaders around the world, I have learned how natural disasters lead to instability, and how instability deters peace.”Through “A World of Women for World Peace” Congresswoman Johnson has worked tirelessly to bring attention to women on the forefront of the peace movement. Whether meeting with international delegations or hosting events on Capitol Hill to advocate for women’s issues, she has brought the topic of peaceful conflict resolution to the center of the dialogue on foreign policy. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.19.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON TO HOST “A WORLD OF WOMEN FOR WORLD PEACE”Dallas Peace Conference 2011 on Women of Natural DisastersDallas, Texas – (Tuesday, April 19, 2011)– Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that she will be holding a Dallas Peace Conference on Women of Natural Disasters on Saturday, April 30, 2011 from Noon to 2 p.m. at Music Hall in FAIR PARK, 909 First Avenue, Dallas, Texas 75210.“I began ‘A World of Women for World Peace’ to bring greater visibility to women who lead peacemaking, peacekeeping, and peace-building activities in their communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Over the course of my meeting female leaders around the world, I have learned how natural disasters lead to instability, and how instability deters peace.”Through “A World of Women for World Peace” Congresswoman Johnson has worked tirelessly to bring attention to women on the forefront of the peace movement. Whether meeting with international delegations or hosting events on Capitol Hill to advocate for women’s issues, she has brought the topic of peaceful conflict resolution to the center of the dialogue on foreign policy. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ATTENDS SIGNING CEREMONY THAT APPROVES $418 MILLION FOR STATE HIGHWAY 161 PROJECT IN DALLAS COUNTY Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson (center) looks on as Senior Project Finance Advisor - TIFIA Credit Program, Cheryl Jones (right); and Chief Financial Officer - North Texas Tollway Authority, Janice Davis (left) sign TIFIA loan. Washington, DC (Friday, April 15, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson was in attendance when officials from the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Program within theU.S. Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) signed documents that willloan more than $418 million to the North Texas Tollway (NTTA) for the final phase of construction of State Highway 161 in Dallas County. The NTTA will use the loan to repay bond notes issued to finance the construction.“This agreement has been years in the making and I am very glad to see it finalized. It was an honor to join with representatives from the U.S. Department of Transportation and the North Texas Tollway Authority for the signing of this agreement,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I have fought hard for this agreement that will provide a loan for more than $418 million that will help pay for construction of the final phase of State Highway 161, which by the way, is a $1.2 billion project.”The State Highway 161 loan will extend the roadway from State Highway 183 to Interstate 20 approximately 11.3 miles along the western boundary of Dallas County. It will provide a natural extension to the heavily congested President George Bush Turnpike. A substantial portion of State Highway 161 is already complete and generating revenue through tolls. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.11.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SPEAKS OUT AGAINST THE DEVASTATING IMPACT OF THE REPUBLICAN BUDGET ON AMERICA Washington, DC (Monday, April 11, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson spoke out against the bill the Republicans plan to bring to the floor this week. The Republican budget will:End Medicare guarantee for seniors;Give tens of billions of dollars in tax subsidies to Big Oil;Slash health support for seniors in nursing homes; Give tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas; Cut education for children and raise college costs for nearly 10 million students; and Make tax cuts for the wealthiest permanent, adding $1 trillion to the deficit. “The Republican budget is the wrong choice for the American people: it is unfair; it doesn't create jobs; it doesn't strengthen the middle class; and it doesn't grow the economy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Democrats support responsible deficit reduction. The issue is not whether we reduce the deficit, but how we do so. Democrats will judge every proposal by whether is creates jobs, responsibly reduces the deficit and strengthens the middle class.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.08.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON RELEASED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON THE BUDGET AGREEMENT Washington, DC (Friday, April 08, 2011)– “I am pleased that the government did not shut down. I am also pleased that we have at least taken the necessary steps towards saving existing jobs. I am not pleased that we have not yet made hard and sensible decisions that address job creation, innovation and our unfair tax practices.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.31.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HIGHLIGHTS ANNIVERSARY OF HISTORIC COLLEGE AID PACKAGELandmark Law Increases Pell Grants for 650,790 Students in Texas,Making College More AffordableWashington, D.C. – (Thursday, March 31, 2011) - Congresswoman Johnson is marking the anniversary of the historic college aid package, which is the largest investment in college aid in our nation’s history – at no cost to America’s taxpayers. Instead this investment is paid for by eliminating taxpayer subsidies to banks.“The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act is making college more affordable for millions of American students – helping to prepare America’s young people for the jobs and careers of the 21st century,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These investments are made at no cost to U.S. taxpayers and instead are paid for by getting rid of wasteful taxpayer subsidies to America’s banks.”The law invests $74,593,356 in Texas’s 30th Congressional District and $2,476,399,998 in the state of Texas over the next 10 years to increase the maximum Pell Grant to $5,550 in 2010 and to $5,975 by 2017. Starting in 2013, the scholarships will be linked to match rising costs-of-living by indexing it to the Consumer Price Index. This includes an investment of $13.5 billion to fund a shortfall in the Pell Grant scholarship program due to increased demand for the scholarship. Pell Grants enable millions of young people to go to college who otherwise would not be able to attend.The law also invests $750 million in initiatives that bolster college access and completion support, including key efforts to help institutions retain their students. The bill will result in $59,228,445 over the next five years for these initiatives for students in Texas.In addition, this landmark law invests $307,396,990 in Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions in Texas to provide students with the support they need to stay in school and graduate. Invests $2 billion in a competitive grant program for community colleges to develop and improve educational or career training programs.The new law also makes federal student loans more affordable for borrowers to repay – strengthening the Income-Based Repayment program that a Democratic-controlled Congress created in 2007. Finally, the legislation makes student loans more efficient, reliable and stable – by converting all new federal student lending to the stable, effective and cost-efficient Direct Loan program. This saves taxpayers billions of dollars and also improves the loan program for students. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.30.2011	Washington, DC – (Wednesday, March 30, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement after news that her long time legislative aide, Christopher Crowe, passed away this afternoon. "Christopher was a dedicated legislative assistant who was committed to strengthening the 30th Congressional District of Texas. He was respected by his colleagues for his professionalism; he was beloved by many for his generous spirit and good humor,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “He was a person who enjoyed life and always had a smile to share. He never met a stranger.” Congresswoman Johnson added, “I extend my deepest sympathy to the Crowe family and his loved ones. He will be deeply missed.” Christopher was presently serving as President of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Congressional Staff Association (LGBT CSA). Funeral arrangements are forthcoming and will be announced at later time. Condolences may be signed in a memorial book starting tomorrow, March 31st in 2468 Rayburn House Office Building. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.29.2011	Washington, DC – (Tuesday, March 29, 2011)– Today, Congresswoman Johnson sat down with “Our World with Black Enterprise” television to discuss the importance of investing in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) disciplines and what programs that encourage these studies mean the nation’s future.“I understand that we have to make budget cuts, but I want to be sure that we don’t make the mistake of cutting our future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Investing in STEM programs will help us out-educate, out-innovate, and out-build the rest of the world. As Ranking Member of Science, Space and Technology, it is my top priority to identify and support strategies that will bolster American innovation, improve STEM education, promote diversity, and ensure that we are not only competing in the 21st century, but leading.” “Our World with Black Enterprise” is a news magazine show that features a mix of culture, entertainment, lifestyles and politics. It is hosted by Dr. Marc Lamont Hill and the Congresswoman will be featured in the sixth season of “Our World with Black Enterprise” television that will air this spring on the TVONE Network.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.25.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON ANNOUNCES A $4,053,823 FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA) GRANT FOR THE DALLAS/FORT WORTH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTWashington, DC (Friday, March 25, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced the FAA will award DFW International airport a grant of $4,053,823 that will go towards the rehabilitation of one of the airport’s primary runways.The existing pavement on runway 18L/36R and taxiway requires rehabilitation to enhance safe airfield operations and this grant will help in this important project. DFW International Airport is one of the largest and busiest airports in the country and Congresswoman Johnson is committed to ensuring that the airport can continue to provide safe and efficient service."I'm proud to announce that the Federal Aviation Administration will award DFW Airport a grant for over four million dollars that will be used to rehabilitate the pavement of one of the airport's primary runways,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This funding will help keep DFW's runways in safe and optimum operating condition and I am proud to be a partner in these efforts.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.23.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CELEBRATES THE FIRST ANNIVERSARY OF THE AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE ACTWashington, DC – (Wednesday, March 23, 2011) - Exactly one year ago today, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law – making health care a right, not a privilege, for all Americans. This historic health reform provides several provisions that have begun to take effect for residents in Texas-30 and around the United States. Immediate benefits in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metro Area are as follows:Health Insurance Plans can no longer place lifetime dollar limit on benefits and care for 4.4 million individuals;Health Insurance Plans can no longer rescind health policies for nearly 343,000 area residents who become ill;Group plans can no longer deny coverage to individuals based on pre-existing conditions for up to 1.2 million to 3.1 million individuals, including 98,000 to 450,000 children;Approximately 50,500 young adults are now covered up to age 26;Health coverage extended to persons between the ages of 55 to 64 for up to 64,500 early retirees;Preventative care benefits to 854,000 seniors;Increased prescription drug costs for 72,700 seniors who hit the Part D drug “donut hole”;Tax credits for up to 142,900 small businesses and 1.7 million families;Increased costs to hospitals in the metro region of providing uncompensated care in the amount of $958 million annually;Consumers in new health plans will have the right to a fair process to appeal if their plan denies their claims;Policies that began on or after September 23, 2010Required to cover preventive services (mammograms, colonoscopies, immunizations, pre-natal care, etc) without a deductible or co-payment for nearly 913,000 residents in the metro area;The insured has a right to both an internal and external appeal by a third party to refute the decision to pay for coverage;a) The insured has the right to choose their own doctor; b) choose a pediatrician as your child’s own doctor; and c) gives women the right to seen an OB-GYN without having to obtain a referral;The insured has the right to access emergency room care and not be charged higher cost-sharing for ER services that were provided in a setting “out-of-network”.The Affordable Care Act (ACA) ensures that all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care and significantly reduce long-term health care costs. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has determined that it will provide coverage to 32 million more people, or more than 94% percent of Americans. CBO projects ACA will reduce the deficit by $143 billion over the next ten years and an additional $1.2 trillion will be reduced in the following 10 years. For more information, visit, https://www.healthcare.gov/ ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.21.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON RELEASED THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON JUDICIAL NOMINATIONS IN THE NORTHERN DISTRICTWashington, DC – (Monday, March 21, 2011) - “There have been unsubstantiated reports in the media about my alleged lack of support for Sarah Saldana for the position of the United States Attorney in the Northern District of Texas.“In the fall of 2008, I received applications from individuals who were interested in judicial nominations in Texas. Although I was not obligated, I handed all applications to President Obama’s transition team for further review including Sarah Saldana's credentials. “After the President’s inauguration, I met with White House personnel and have repeatedly adhered to all official procedures pertaining to the submission of names that involved potential candidates for the federal judge, U.S. Attorney, or U.S. Marshal positions. The official agreement between our delegation and the White House was to send three names for each category so that the White House could pick the potential candidate and move forward with the U.S. Senate. After close consultation with my local committee, I submitted the judicial nominees for the Northern District of Texas to the White House with the entire Texas Congressional Democratic delegation's support. The White House has not asked me for any other names. This has been a long tradition where President Clinton was in the White House consulting with then two Republican Texas Senators as well. The White House's agreement with our delegation was clear: No federal judge, U.S. Attorney, or U.S. Marshal will be nominated by the President unless that person has the confirmed support of the Texas Democratic delegation. “I will continue to work with my Congressional colleagues and the White House to appoint only the most qualified candidates for the Northern District. Hopefully, further action will occur regarding the other pending nominations, not just in the Northern District, but those in San Antonio, El Paso and Laredo as well.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.www.facebook.com/CongresswomanEBJTX30 www.twitter.com/RepEBJ
03.17.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RELEASED THIS STATEMENT ON THE IMPORTANCE OF CONTINUED FEDERAL FUNDING FOR NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIODallas, Texas – (Thursday, March 17, 2011) – “At a time when our national news is driven more and more by commercial interests and obsession with viewing ratings; it’s more important than ever for Americans to have an objective and unbiased news source and national commentary that National Public Radio (NPR) has provided since the 1970’s. Hundreds of my constituents have called my offices, sent emails and faxes to express how important (NPR) is to them. Smaller radio stations in rural America that have limited news exposure, rely heavily on NPR’s unbiased news sources. Low- income families, families living in rural areas, and minorities would be especially hurt by this legislation as these communities depend on NPR for access to news and information on public safety.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.15.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON NAMED SOUTH WEST TRANSIT ASSOCIATION LEGISLATOR OF THE YEAR From left to right: Executive Director of the South West Transit Authority (SWTA), Kristen Joyner; Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson; President and Executive Director of Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART), Gary Thomas; and President of SWTA, Charla Sloan.Washington, DC (March 15, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was honored by the South West Transit Association (SWTA) with the organization’s 2011 Legislator of the Year Award. The SWTA Legislator of the Year award recognizes a member of the U.S. House or Senate who has significantly advanced the interest of public transportation in the previous year.Congresswoman Johnson was nominated by the Texas Transit Association, Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) and the Fort Worth Transportation Authority (The T), for her visionary leadership and steadfast support. Congresswoman Johnson has helped to advance one of the largest and most ambitious expansion programs ever witnessed in the U.S. public transit industry, thereby positioning DART as a modern-day success story for today’s American public transit renaissance.“Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was supportive of DART way before it became popular,” said President and Executive Director of DART, Gary Thomas. “Congresswoman Johnson is a visionary and has always known the value of transportation to the region and to her constituents.”In accepting the award, Congresswoman Johnson said, “I am especially honored this morning to be receiving the Legislator of the Year Award from the Southwest Transit Association. Texas and the Dallas Region have rapidly growing populations, which makes entities such as the Texas Transit Association, DART and the Fort Worth T vital to meeting Texas’ transportation needs. It will take all of us working together to succeed and I am very proud to be partnered with you in this effort.”Now serving her 10th term representing the 30th Congressional District of Texas, Congresswoman Johnson is a true champion of public transit, having shepherded critical federal funding for the DART project over the past two decades. Her efforts have advanced DART as the first modern light rail system in the Southwest.The award was presented to Congresswoman Johnson at the annual SWTA legislative briefing breakfast and attended by over 70 transit leaders from across the 8-state SWTA region.LINK TO VIDEO OF AWARD PRESENTATION - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cvH0uq8RYhc ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.14.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES A $700,000 FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (FTA) GRANT TO DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT (DART) FOR POSSIBLE SECOND LIGHT RAILDallas, Texas (Monday, March 14, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that DART will receive a $700,000 grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for the Alternatives Analysis (AA) Program for possible alternatives for a second downtown Dallas light rail line.The grant will provide funding to update the Downtown Dallas Transit Study/ Dallas Central Business District (CBD) AA/Draft Environmental Impact Statement published in April of 2010. The previous AA document outlined four possible alternatives for a second downtown Dallas light rail line. A second light rail transit (LRT) line in the CBD will increase ridership capacity in Downtown Dallas to support increased public demand because of anticipated regional growth, enhance operations and provide schedule flexibility. The City of Dallas has requested that a previously eliminated alternative be re-evaluated. The AA will also include development of a streetcar system plan that would connect to the current light rail system.“I am happy to see Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) receive this funding from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA),” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Dallas is a rapidly growing area and this funding will help the city better determine which additional light rail lines and streetcar plans will best serve our citizens.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.11.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $323,000 HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT TO WILMER FIRE DEPARTMENTDallas, Texas (Friday, March 11, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that Wilmer Fire Department has received $323,000 from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security Federal Emergency under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. The purpose of the AFG is to award grants directly to fire departments and EMS organizations that are unaffiliated with a hospital to enhance their ability to protect the health and safety of the public, as well as that of first-responder personnel. Using a competitive process that is overseen by fire service subject matter experts, AFG grants are awarded to applicants whose requests best address the priorities of the AFG Program.“I am very pleased that the Wilmer Fire Department has earned this grant for vehicle acquisition from the Department of Homeland Security,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This funding will help the city’s first responders continue to provide effective fire protection and medical service. I commend Wilmer Fire Department, Chief Smith, for his leadership in securing this funding.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.11.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON RELEASES THE FOLLOWING STATEMENT ON THE DEVASTATING EARTHQUAKE IN JAPAN AND THE THREATENING TSUNAMI AFFECTING THE PACIFIC REGIONWashington, DC (Friday, March 11, 2011) - “An 8.9 magnitude earthquake struck Japan today with devastating consequences. Several hundred have died, hundreds are still missing and thousands of people are being evacuated from their homes. I offer my condolences to those who have lost their loved ones in this tragedy. My prayers go out to the people of Japan during this calamitous time. Already…other nations of the Pacific like Australia and New Zealand, which also recently suffered from a deadly earthquake, are taking precautions. Here in the United States, Hawaii and California are planning for evacuations. I pray that no further lives are lost.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.10.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON APPLAUDS THE FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINSTRATION’S (FAA) FIRST PAYMENT TOWARDS LOVE FIELD IMPROVEMENTSWashington, DC (Thursday, March 10, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced the FAA’s first grant payment of $7.9 million towards the rehabilitation of existing apron pavement that has reached the end of its useful life at Dallas Love Field Airport.This is the first payment, according to the FAA’s Letter of Intent issued on May 18, 2010, that will be distributed in different increments over a seven year period totaling $56 million. Future grants will be used to construct a hydrant fuel distribution system and other improvements that are components of the Love Field Modernization Program. Funds will be administered from the FAA’s Airport Improvement Program.“I am very happy that the FAA is following through on its commitment to award these much needed funds to Dallas Love Field. This private-public partnership is a great example of how government and business can work together.” said Congresswoman Johnson. “As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Aviation Subcommittee, I am dedicated to ensuring that Love Field continues to provide safe and efficient service.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.09.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON OFFERS STUDENTS A CHANCE TO REPRESENT THE 30TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT IN NATIONAL SHOWCASEDallas, Texas (Wednesday, March 09, 2011) – Congresswoman Johnson urges high school students residing in the 30th Congressional District to enter their artwork in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition. The winning piece will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year along with winners from other Congressional districts.The 2011 Congressional Art Competition is open to all public, private, and home-schooled high school students residing in the Texas 30th Congressional District. How to Compete: Students will create an original piece of artwork no larger than 28”x 28”x4” and submit it with a completed Student Release Form to Congresswoman Johnson’s District Office, 3102 Maple Ave., Suite 600, Dallas, TX 75201. The 2011 Congressional Art Competition Student Release Form can be found on www.ebjohnson.house.gov under the “For Students” tab.Due Date: All artwork is due by Friday, April 15, 2011 at 5:00 p.m.Artwork must be two-dimensional and cannot weigh more than 15 lbs. Acceptable media include: paintings, drawings, collage, prints, mixed media, computer-generated art and photography. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.24.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ENCOURAGES FAITH-BASED COMMUNITY TO SHARE RESOURCES AMONG EACH OTHER AT 16TH ANNUAL PRAYER BREAKFAST Dallas, Texas – (Thursday, February 24, 2011) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson hosted her 16th Annual Prayer Breakfast at the Diabetes Health and Wellness Institute at Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center – an affiliate of Baylor Health Care System. More than 100 faith-based leaders came together to discuss the benefits of partnering with private entities, non-profit organizations and each other to better serve their communities. Pastor Bryan Carter of Concord Church and Pastor Scott Wilson of The Oaks, two pastors of different races and denominations, demonstrated the success that comes from working together and how it benefits those in need. Elizabeth Darling with One Star Foundation provided information on grants and partnering opportunities.“It is important for all of us to help each other,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We need to be resourceful especially at time when so many programs that benefit our communities are being cut. The only way to thrive amidst these cuts and to ensure the vitality of our neighborhoods is our ability to come together and work as one.”Baylor Health Care System is a faith-based supporting organization providing services to a network of acute care hospitals and related health care entities that provide patient care, medical education, research and community service. Baylor recorded more than 2.6 million patient encounters, $3.8 billion in total operating revenue, $4.4 billion in total assets and $513.5 million in community benefit in fiscal year 2010. Baylor’s network of more than 260 access points includes 26 owned/operated/ ventured/affiliated hospitals, 23 joint ventured ambulatory surgical centers, 50 satellite outpatient locations, four senior centers and 156 Health Texas physician clinics. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.24.2011	AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL AND BIOLOGICAL ENGINEERING HONORS CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSONWashington, DC – (Thursday, February 24, 2011) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was awarded the American Institute for Medical and Biological Engineering’s (AIMBE) Public Policy Award for her excellent record on advancing Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) issues.“I humbly accept this award and thank AIMBE for the honor and recognition. Throughout my tenure in Congress, I have fought for increased investments in innovation, competitiveness and STEM education knowing that investments in these fields are fundamental to improving the nation's economy and quality of life. I remain committed to ensuring policies are enacted, which will ensure America can not only COMPETE, but also lead in the 21st century. I look forward to working with AIMBE to further advance these causes in the 112th Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson.AIMBE is a nonprofit (501c3) organization dedicated to promoting the field of medical and biological engineering (MBE) for the benefit of human health. Its membership is peer elected, comprising the top 2% of the MBE community, with individuals who have made substantial contributions to society. Just a few examples of some of the individuals who belong to the community are the inventors of the pace maker, MRI machine, heart valve replacement, and digital hearing aid. Each year AIMBE awards lawmakers who have made substantial contributions to the field of MBE. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.02.2011	State Power Emergency Impacts Oncor Customers - Weather, Plant Outages Led to Supply Exceeding DemandWednesday, February, 2, 2011 - Oncor, the electric transmission and distribution company serving most of North Texas, is in the process of temporarily turning off power across its service territory to compensate for unexpected generation loss in the areas of the state served by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. Oncor, which does not own any generation, along with other transmission and distribution utilities across Texas are taking direction from ERCOT to manage the situation. By temporarily turning off power in a controlled manner, ERCOT is attempting to prevent uncontrolled outages from occurring across the state.While the length of the outage for each individual customer can vary in length, Oncor is working very hard to ensure that no outage lasts longer than 30 minutes. If a customer's outage lasts longer than 30 minutes, they should call 888.313.4747 because they may be experiencing an outage caused by weather or other reasons. ERCOT, which manages the electricity grid across most of the state, made the demand for controlled outages across the state after some generating plants unexpectedly went off line shortly before 6 a.m. Wednesday which, when coupled with the significant electricity demand from the severe cold weather, created an electricity shortage. At this time, it is unclear how long the rolling outages will last. ERCOT is closely monitoring both supply and demand for the electricity in most of the state.MediaMegan Wright877-426-1616
01.24.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON THE PASSING OF LOUISE HILMA BALLERSTEDT RAGGIO Dallas, TX (Monday, January 24, 2011) – Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement on the passing of civil rights champion and dear friend, Ms. Louise Hilma Ballerstedt Raggio. Ms. Raggio, who passed away Sunday at age 91, believed in equality and justice. She was an inspirational voice not just for Texas women, but women everywhere.“I am deeply saddened to say goodbye to a phenomenal woman who meant so much to me. Louise always encouraged me to never give-up. She played a pivotal role in my career. She was my confidant and a true pioneer for women,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “My life is richer because she was in it. I will truly miss her.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.19.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES THE IMPACT OF THE REPUBLICANS’ PATIENTS’ RIGHTS REPEAL ACT ON THOSE LIVING IN TX-30 Washington, D.C. (Wednesday, January 19, 2011) - Today, Congresswoman Johnson released a report that details the impact of the Republicans’ Patients’ Rights Repeal Act on the hundreds of thousands of Americans who live in the 30th Congressional District of Texas. This week, the House Republican Leadership is bringing this legislation to the House Floor for a vote.“My number-one priority for the 112th Congress is creating jobs, but instead of focusing on job creation, the top Republican leadership is focusing on repealing patients’ rights and putting insurance companies back in charge,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Hundreds of thousands of residents in TX-30 will lose rights that protect them from insurance company abuses and give them more freedom and control over their health care choices.”The report on TX-30 finds that the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act would have significant consequences in the district by:• Allowing insurance companies to deny coverage to 118,000 to 325,000 individuals, including 11,000 to 50,000 children, with pre-existing conditions. These individuals include those who are breast cancer survivors and prostate cancer survivors; those living with heart disease; and those with such conditions as asthma and high blood pressure.• Taking away the ability of 4,800 young adults to stay on their parents’ insurance plan until their 26th birthday. • Taking away the 50% discount on brand-name Rx drugs from 5,000 seniors who hit the Medicare Part D ‘donut hole;’ and denying free preventive care services under Medicare to 71,000 seniors.• Eliminating health care tax credits available for up to 15,500 small businesses and 195,000 families.• Eliminating the ban on insurers dropping people from coverage when they get sick that protects the 45,000 to 124,000 individuals who purchase individual health insurance.• Eliminating the requirement that health plans that are new or revised begin providing free preventive care, with the elimination resulting in increased out-of-pocket costs for 55,000 individuals.• Getting rid of the ban on insurers placing lifetime limits on coverage that currently benefits 264,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or in the private insurance market.• Increasing the costs of coverage for up to 5,400 early retirees.“Instead of bringing such bills as the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act to the Floor, I hope Republicans will work with Democrats to develop bipartisan solutions addressing job creation, strengthening the middle class, and bringing down our long-term deficit,” said Congresswoman Johnson. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.14.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON REFLECTS ON THE LIFE OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.Washington, DC – (Friday, January 14, 2011) Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement in honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day that is celebrated nationwide on Monday, January, 17, 2011.“Dr. King left us with the challenge to courageously fight and secure the civil rights for all, from the impoverished and disenfranchised underclass to the politically and economically endowed,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “And while we have made great progress, there is still work to be done. We must remain diligent and engaged in defining how our nation will achieve this equality.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She is also the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.07.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON REPRESENTS THE 30TH DISTRICT OF TEXAS FOR A 10TH TERMWashington, DC (Friday, January 07, 2011) – This week, Congresswoman Johnson participated in the Ceremonial Swearing–In of the 112th Congress.“I am honored once again to serve the 30th Congressional District of Texas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I will continue to work hard and diligently for my constituents.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She is also Ranking Member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.07.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES NEARLY $18 MILLION FOR DARTWashington, D.C. (Friday, January 7, 2011) – Congresswoman Johnson announced today that the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) System will receive $17.778 million from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) in advanced funding for the Green Line.The nearly $18 million is an early payment towards the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) between DART and the FTA for the Green Line. The FFGA, which Congresswoman Johnson worked to secure several years ago, ends in Fiscal Year 2014. “The recent expansion of DART’s Green Line provides increased mobility options from Buckner Station along its Southeast Corridor to New Carrollton/Frankford Station along its Northwestern Corridor.” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased that the Federal Transit Administration recognizes the significance of the Green Line and decided to provide DART nearly $18 million in advanced funds.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure. She is also Ranking Member of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas that includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.21.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON CELEBRATES THE PASSING OF THE AMERICA COMPETES REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2010Washington, DC – (December 21, 2010) – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Senate amended version of H.R. 5116; the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010. Congresswoman Johnson supported the bill which passed by a recorded vote of 228 to 130.The Senate’s version of the bill reduces the authorization from five-years to three. The bill provides for the authorization of the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy's Office of Science, and the Department of Commerce's National Institute of Standards & Technology. The Senate’s amendments preserve the intent of the Rising Above the Gathering Storm report and the original COMPETES by keeping basic research agencies on a doubling path and sustaining investments in high-risk, high-reward energy technology development and STEM education.“The bill makes significant investments in science, innovation, and education to strengthen the U.S. scientific and economic leadership, support employers, and create jobs in the short-, mid-, and long-term,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It will help to prepare thousands of new teachers and provide current teachers with better materials and skills. It makes concerted efforts to increase the number of Advanced Placement teachers in high-need schools.”The bill now awaits to be signed into law by the President. ###Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.21.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $700,000 FOR DART LIGHT RAIL PLANNINGWashington, D.C. (Tuesday, December 21, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson announced today that the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) System will receive $700,000 from the Federal Transit Administration for Light Rail Planning.The $700,000 in planning funds will be used to evaluate a second light rail transit alignment for downtown Dallas, commonly known as D2. This new line is being undertaken to alleviate congestion along the DART transit mall, which runs along Bryan Street and Pacific Avenue.“The award of these funds represents a critical step forward to moving ahead with the D2 line,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased to support the allocation of these funds to DART, which adds to my ongoing effort to help relieve congestion and ensure that Dallas residents have multiple transportation options available to them.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.16.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ELECTED AS RANKING MEMBER OF THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE AND TECHNOLOGY BY FULL DEMOCRATIC CAUCUSWashington, DC – (December 16, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson responds today to her confirmed nomination as Ranking Member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology:“I am very honored that my Democratic colleagues chose to elect me as Ranking Member of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology. Although we are no longer in the Majority, I feel as though I will be able to work with Chairman Hall to advocate for American priorities in Science, Space and Technology issues. America is facing serious challenges and Science, Space and Technology issues play an integral role in our future economic prosperity. I look forward to begin working in the 112th Congress.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.18.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON SUPPORTS EQUAL VISITATION RIGHTS FOR ALL HOSPITAL PATIENTSNew requirements empower patients to designate their own visitors, including a same-sex domestic partnerWashington, DC – (Thursday, November 18, 2010) –On yesterday, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) issued new rules for Medicare-and-Medicaid-participating hospitals that protect patients’ right to choose their own visitors during a hospital stay, including a visitor who is a same-sex domestic partner.The new rules follow from an April 15, 2010 Presidential Memorandum, in which President Obama tasked The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) with developing standards for Medicare-and-Medicaid-participating hospitals (including critical access hospitals) that would require them to respect the right of all patients to choose who may visit them when they are an inpatient of a hospital. The President’s memorandum instructed HHS to develop rules that would prohibit hospitals from denying visitation privileges on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability. It also directed that the rules take into account the need for a hospital to restrict visitation in medically appropriate circumstances.“I have always believed that when a person is ill, it is that person’s right to decide who should or should not be allowed to visit them while they are in the hospital,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The rules require hospitals to have written policies and procedures detailing patients’ visitation rights, as well as the circumstances under which the hospitals may restrict patient access to visitors based on reasonable clinical needs.A key provision of the rules specifies that all visitors chosen by the patient (or his or her representative) must be able to enjoy “full and equal” visitation privileges consistent with the wishes of the patient (or his or her representative).The rules update the Conditions of Participation (CoPs), which are the health and safety standards all Medicare-and-Medicaid-participating hospitals and critical access hospitals must meet, and are applicable to all patients of those hospitals, regardless of payer source.Among other things, the rules impose new requirements on hospitals to explain to all patients their right to choose who may visit them during their inpatient stay, regardless of whether the visitor is a family member, a spouse, a domestic partner (including a same-sex domestic partner), or other type of visitor, as well as their right to withdraw such consent to visitation at any time.CMS finalized the rules based on thousands of comments from patient advocates, the hospital community, and other stakeholders. The rules will be effective 60 days after publication. More information about the rules is available on CMS’ website at https://www.cms.gov/CFCsAndCoPs/06_Hospitals.asp and https://www.cms.gov/CFCsAndCoPs/03_CAHs.asp. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.18.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON RECEIVES A PERFECT SCORE FROM THE LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE ON CIVIL AND HUMAN RIGHTSWashington DC – (Thursday, November 18, 2010) – The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, a coalition charged by its diverse membership to promote and protect the rights of all persons in the United States, has given Congresswoman Johnson a perfect score of 100 percent for supporting legislation relating to important civil rights protections like hate crimes and numerous other issues in the 111th Congress.“I am honored to receive a 100 percent score from the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Right for the 111th Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Advancing the rights of all Americans has been a priority for me during my time in Congress. The 111th Congress was extremely productive in this area. We were able to pass several bills including: enhancing our ability to prosecute hate crimes; preventing predatory mortgage lending; and making college more accessible for millions of students. I am proud of what we achieved and hope that we will be able to move forward with an agenda that focuses on equal justice and opportunity.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.16.2010	HOUSE PASSES CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON’S RESOLUTION HONORING NASA’S ASSISTANCE IN THE RESCUE OF 33 TRAPPED CHILEAN MINERSWashington, DC – (Tuesday 16, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson congratulated engineers, scientists, psychologists and staff of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) today on the House floor for helping to successfully rescue 33 trapped Chilean miners from a collapsed mine near Copiapo, Chile.A team of NASA personnel from the Johnson Space Center in Texas and the Langley Research Center was assembled, including two medical doctors, a psychologists and an engineer who traveled to Chile to support the Chilean government’s rescue efforts.“The NASA team worked diligently and tirelessly to provide input and information that could help preserve the health and well-being of the 33 trapped minors during and after their confinement, as well as aid in their rescue,” said Congresswoman Johnson. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.10.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON SEEKS RANKING MEMBER POSITION ON THE COMMITTEE ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYWashington, DC – (Wednesday, November 10, 2010) - Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement today regarding her intention to run as Ranking Member for the Committee on Science and Technology in the 112th Congress. “If elected as Ranking Member, I would work tirelessly in order to further seek the implementation of policies which we have not yet been able to advance in the 111th Congress. As Ranking Member, I would continue to advocate for STEM education, clean energy, and for scientific research to improve the lives of all Americans. I would fight to ensure that our aviation industry and, NASA specifically, remains strong, and able to undertake each and every new mission that draws them further away from our planet and into depths of scientific discovery. I would continue to emphasize the need to invest in basic scientific research and development to support our nation’s energy independence and security, to create new technologies, industries, and jobs that will catalyze our nation’s embattled middle class and fulfill a mission for the U.S. to lead the world in clean technology. Today, I stand eager to work with the Republican Chairman of the House Science committee to help rebuild our Nation’s economy through science; with basic and applied scientific research to enhance our standard of living, foster new industries, and retain our global competitiveness. Serving as the Ranking member would allow me to continue to fight for the issues that are important to Scientific, as well as the Federal government's work effectively and efficiently. My commitment to both this institution and our party is strong. I will continue to work with the Administration to identify solutions to new, or persistent issues that threaten to set our nation back even as we continue to look forward to our future. Finally, my new role would allow me to address the needs of the scientific sector while engendering the growth of our Nation’s scientific research capabilities that contribute to the economic strength of our nation.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.05.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $32 MILLION IN WEATHERIZATION FUNDING FOR DALLASThe American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides energy efficient homes to low-income Texas familiesDallas, TX– (Friday, November 5, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson announced today that Dallas and Dallas County will receive $32,446,583 over two years to weatherize 3,748 low-income family homes.Texas’ efforts are contributing to the success of the Weatherization Assistance Program that has already weatherized 80,000 homes across the country. The weatherization program is also creating thousands of jobs locally – putting carpenters, electricians, and factory workers back to work installing insulation, upgrading appliances, and improving heating and cooling systems. According to state reports, the Recovery Act Weatherization Assistance Program supported nearly 900 jobs throughout Texas.“I continue to strongly support the Weatherization Assistance Program,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased low-income households are getting the assistance they need through American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding. Weatherization improvements create jobs, decrease emissions and help hardworking families save money. For many families weatherizing costs are too high and the payoff takes too long. This funding helps eliminate these barriers by improving existing infrastructure to create jobs and reduce energy use.”Under the weatherization program, local agencies provide whole-home energy efficiency upgrades, including conducting an energy audit in the home to identify the most cost-effective improvements, and implementing solutions that range from installing additional insulation and weather-stripping, sealing windows and doors, caulking cracks in the building, and replacing inefficient heating and cooling systems. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.15.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES VOTE TO PROVIDE ONE-TIME $250 CHECK FOR SENIORSAs Social Security Administration Prepares to Announce No Social Security Cost-of-Living-Adjustment for Next YearWashington, DC – (Friday, October 15, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson announced today that House Democrats will move ahead with legislation to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment. The Social Security Administration is expected to announce that there will be no automatic Cost-of-Living-Adjustment for 2011. That means that for the first time ever, 2011 will be the second consecutive year that Social Security retirees, veterans, and people with disabilities will see no increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, and Railroad Retirement benefits. This unprecedented situation is a result of economic conditions, not the result of Congressional or Presidential action or inaction.“The lingering effects of the worst economy since the Great Depression mean Americans who need Social Security to survive can’t afford to tread water,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We will act quickly to enact a one-time $250 payment to seniors, veterans, and people with disabilities who receive Social Security to help them make ends meet during this tough time, when housing values are down, other retirement income is volatile, and many are facing rising expenses.“I support H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act, to provide a $250 payment to about 54 million Americans in lieu of no increase in their monthly income,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The President has already budgeted for this and we can do this in a fiscally responsible way. We can’t leave seniors on Main Street behind as we begin this recovery.” The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). October 15 is the day BLS releases the final economic factor that the Social Security Administration uses to calculate the annual COLA. In 2009, Social Security recipients saw a 5.8% increase in their benefits, the largest since 1982, as a result of rising costs; but in 2010, they saw no COLA at all.Social Security benefit levels are modest – only $14,000 a year for the average retiree. The median income for senior households is just $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. Six in ten seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income, and about a third of retirees have little other than Social Security on which to live.Gains for SeniorsThe 111th Congress has worked to strengthen the economic security of America’s seniors. In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congress provided seniors and other beneficiaries a $250 economic recovery payment to boost the economy and help them weather an anticipated upcoming COLA cutback. In fact, a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute showed that similar payments to seniors in 2009 strengthened the economy, increasing the nation’s GDP by 0.5% in the second quarter of the year, and creating or saving 125,000 American jobs.Under health reform, millions of seniors will save thousands of dollars on their prescription drug costs by phasing out the Medicare prescription drug “donut hole” coverage gap and Medicare will be strengthened. In 2010, 4 million seniors who hit the donut hole are receiving a $250 rebate check. Beginning in 2011, seniors who hit the donut hole will receive a 50 percent discount on brand name drugs, and the donut hole will be completely closed by 2020. In addition, beginning on January 1, 2011, the Affordable Care Act provides that seniors will receive, under Medicare, free preventive services such as mammograms and certain colon cancer tests and a free annual physical. The Affordable Care Act also strengthens Medicare by extending the solvency of the trust fund by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029.Both of these plans to bring greater security to America’s seniors were opposed by Republicans in Congress who created the donut hole and would stop donut hole checks to seniors, and who favor turning over Medicare to the insurance companies, forcing seniors to hunt for their own coverage with vouchers that would decrease in value over time.Internet MythsThere are several false rumors circulating among seniors on the internet about Social Security and the reasons for the lack of a COLA. You may find useful the debunking information at the following links:• “Is it true that the Democratic Congress will not allow an increase in the Social Security COLA?”https://www.factcheck.org/2009/09/social-security-cola/• Is SSA spending COLA money on electronic medical records, instead of a COLA?https://www.factcheck.org/2009/12/electronic-medical-records-for-congress/• Debunking myths about the history of Social Security https://www.ssa.gov/history/InternetMyths.html/ ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.08.2010	LENDING FOR TEXAS SMALL BUSINESSES TO EXPAND & PUT AMERICANS BACK TO WORK IS ON ITS WAYThis Program Will Provide $15 Billion in New Small Business LendingDallas, TX (Friday, October 08, 2010) -- Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that $465,538,790 is being allocated for lending in Texas for small businesses by the Treasury Department, in a key step of implementing the just-passed Small Business Jobs Act. States can now apply for their allocation. This effort will spread $15 billion in new small business lending through innovative local programs that help entrepreneurs expand their businesses and create new jobs.Congress just recently passed the Small Business Jobs Act to spur economic growth and create 500,000 new jobs by providing much-needed lending to millions of small businesses, and offering 8 new tax incentives to companies, so that they may expand, hire, and fuel our economy.“Small businesses are the engine of our economy and are key to creating American jobs and rebuilding the economy for the future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Unleashing $465,538,790 in lending in Texas is critical for small businesses to help them grow and flourish; state officials must quickly jump on this opportunity. Increased access to capital and new tax cuts will not only keep jobs in America, it will allow small businesses to make it in America.”Through this part of the Small Business Jobs Act, states have the opportunity to apply for federal funds for programs that partner with private lenders to extend greater credit to small businesses. States are required to demonstrate a minimum “bang for the buck” of $10 in new private lending for every $1 in federal funding. Accordingly, the $1.5 billion investment from the federal government is expected to support $15 billion in additional private lending.In addition to the State Small Business Credit Initiative, the Small Business Jobs Act will help America’s 27 million small businesses with eight tax cuts totaling $12 billion that went into effect last week. It will make Main Street businesses more competitive with big corporations by spurring up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses through community banks and extending and expanding existing Small Business Administration low-cost loans. Finally, this bill is fully paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.05.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON COMMENTS ON WHITE HOUSE SUMMIT TO STRENGTHEN COMMUNITY COLLEGESWashington, DC – (Tuesday, October 5, 2010) – Today, the White House hosted a summit on community colleges. Congresswoman Johnson released the following statement:“Community colleges represent a key aspect of education and career readiness for our nation. When one looks at affordability, accessibility and product, community colleges are leading the way in educating millions of Americans who may otherwise not receive a post-secondary education.I am extremely proud of the work that Dallas County Community College District (DCCCD) is doing in North Texas. With nearing 100,000 students and seven campuses, DCCCD is the largest undergraduate institution in the State of Texas. Under the leadership of Dr. Wright Lassiter, DCCCD is excelling at offering 120 different academic and technical programs to a diverse student body. His innovative Health Care Resources Center provides a one-stop-shop for individuals interested in health programs at all seven DCCCD colleges. During the FY 2010 appropriations cycle, I was able to obtain a $300,000 award for their Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Professions Initiative that will encourage students to pursue a degree in STEM and train STEM teachers.The summit held today at the White House represents a strong commitment to the future of our community colleges. I fully support the President’s initiative and look forward to working with him so all of our students can be college or career ready by 2020.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.30.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $5 MILLION IN GRANT FUNDS FOR DARTDallas, TX — (Thursday, September 30, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson welcomed news that Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) will receive $5 million from the Federal Transit Administration through the State of Good Repair Grant Program to purchase greener buses.As part of this program, the State Of Good Repair Bus Initiative makes funds available to public transit providers to finance capital projects to replace, rehabilitate, and purchase buses and equipment. Because of DART’s commitment to environmental stewardship, they have purchased compressed natural gas (CNG) buses that are expected to hit the streets in late 2013. The operating cost savings compared to clean diesel over the next 20 years is projected to be $190 million.“I’m glad that DART is receiving funds to help with the growth of public transit in Dallas,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This $5 million will be a great benefit towards improving our air quality. I applaud DART’s continued efforts and their $25 million investment over the past decade to cut emissions by 68 percent.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.29.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON VOTES TO PROVIDE 9/11 FIRST RESPONDERS WITH HEALTH CAREWashington, D.C.— (Wednesday, September 29, 2010) - Today, Congresswoman Johnson voted to provide 9/11 first responders and survivors with long-term, comprehensive health care and fair economic compensation. Thousands of those who responded to the tragedy at Ground Zero—firefighters, police officers, and other rescue workers—were exposed to dangerous toxins, leaving them with chronic, deadly diseases. The James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act ensures that these heroes receive the medical care that they deserve.“These brave men and women sacrificed their personal well-being to serve their country on one of its darkest days,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The least we can do is provide them with the medical care and treatments that they so sorely need. Anything less would be unconscionable.”Named for James Zadroga, a police officer who died at 34 from respiratory diseases contracted at Ground Zero, the bill provides medical monitoring and treatment to the over 71,000 people exposed to harmful toxins and dust on the scene. The bill also reopens the September 11, 2011 Victim Compensation Fund to provide monetary compensation for those physically injured by the attacks or by response activities and debris removal. It is fully paid-for over the next 10 years by a provision preventing foreign multinational firms from avoiding United States taxes by routing income through other haven countries.“I am proud of all the hard work my colleagues have done to bring this bill to the floor again,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Although Congressional Republicans played politics with the lives of these heroic Americans and caused the bill to fail in July, today we have triumphed in passing this long-awaited legislation. Today is the next step in the healing process—both for our first responders and for this country.”The bill is supported by a long list of groups, including the International Association of Firefighters, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Associated General Contractors, Associated Builders and Contractors, and American Council of Engineering Companies. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.29.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON SUPPORTS THE MEDICAL DEBT RELIEF ACTEnsures Americans Who Have Fully Paid Their Medical Bills Are Not Penalized For Bad Health With A Poor Credit ReportWashington, DC — (Wednesday, September 29, 2010) Today, Congresswoman Johnson voted in favor of the H.R. 3421 “Medical Debt Relief Act” that amends the Fair Credit Reporting Act to prohibit paid-off or settled medical debt from appearing on a consumer’s credit report.Because medical debt is different than other types of consumer debt, it is believed that medical debt should be treated differently. The nature of medical debt is involuntary and the costs associated with medical care are often not known until well after the care has been provided.“I am pleased that this bill has overwhelmingly passed with bi-partisan support,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It’s clear that people with medical conditions should not suffer from unfavorable credit reporting.”In 2003, the Federal Reserve reported that more than 50% of collection agency actions reported to credit bureaus were from medical bills. Reports to credit bureaus can significantly reduce a consumer’s credit worthiness and ultimately restrict their access to credit, insurance, rental housing and livelihood. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES EL CENTRO COLLEGE TO RECEIVE A $637,207 GRANTDallas, TX – (Tuesday, September 28, 2010) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that El Centro College was awarded $637,207 under the Strengthening Institutions - Hispanic Serving Institution Program. This grant will be for a total of 5 years.“Our nation’s HSIs and community colleges play a key role in preparing a workforce ready population,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Under the leadership of Dallas County Community College District Chancellor, Dr. Wright Lassiter, El Centro College offers exemplary programs to foster personal and professional development. I am so pleased that El Centro is receiving these funds.”The purpose of this program is to expand educational opportunities for, and improve the academic of, Hispanic students; and expand and enhance the academic offering, program quality and institutional stability of colleges and universities that are educating the majority of Hispanic college students. It also helps large numbers of Hispanic students and other low-income individuals complete postsecondary degrees. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.24.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES PAUL QUINN COLLEGE TO RECEIVE $500,000 IN AIDDallas, TX — (Friday, September 24, 2010) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson announced that Paul Quinn College has been selected to receive $500,000.00 in funding under the Historically Black College University (HBCU) Institutional Aid Program. It is anticipated that the grant will be for a total of 5 years. “For over 170 years, our Historically Black Colleges and Universities have been on the forefront of preparing our nation’s youth for a bright path and successful future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “HBCU institutions have changed the face of this nation and enabled thousands of African Americans the opportunity and access to achieve a level of higher education and compete in the global economy. It is a testament to their success that today more than 200,000 diverse students across the United States attend a HBCU.”The purpose of the HBCU Program is to provide financial assistance to establish or strengthen the academic resources, financial management, endowments and physical plants of historically Black colleges and universities to enhance these institutions. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.23.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON LAUDS TAX CUTS & ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR SMALL BUSINESS JOB CREATIONWashington, DC (Thursday, September 23, 2010) —Today, Congresswoman Johnson voted to spur economic growth and create 500,000 new jobs by encouraging the development of American small businesses. The Small Business Jobs Act increases much-needed lending to millions of small businesses, and offers 8 new tax incentives to companies, so that they may expand, hire, and fuel our economy. It also keeps jobs in America by closing tax loopholes that reward corporations that ship jobs overseas.“Small businesses are the foundation of our economy and are an integral part of creating jobs and rebuilding the economy for the future,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We owe it to them to ensure that they have a business environment in this country that helps them grow and flourish. Increased access to capital and new tax cuts will not only keep jobs in America, it will allow small businesses to make it in America.”The Small Business Jobs Act will help America’s 27 million small businesses create new jobs and grow with $12 billion in tax cuts. It will make Main Street businesses more competitive with big corporations by leveraging up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses, along with state grants for small business lending. With tax cuts and access to more capital, our nation’s small businesses will be able to put more Americans back to work. The Small Business Jobs Act takes another step to end job outsourcing by ending tax incentives for companies that ship jobs overseas. Finally, this bill is fully paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit.“In spite of rampant Republican opposition, obstructionism, and delay, we have passed a bill that moves America forward,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “While Congressional Republicans are fighting to protect big corporations, Big Oil, and Wall Street, we are fighting for Main Street and job creation. We won that fight today, and as a result, small businesses in Texas will win too.”In fact, in the same day that Congressional Republicans stood at a small business in Virginia to introduce their new agenda that calls for tax breaks for America’s small businesses, they came back to Washington to vote against tax breaks for small businesses. That means Republicans have voted against 15 of the 16 tax breaks for small businesses that this Congress has enacted. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.21.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES MORE THAN $3 MILLION IN U. S. DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT (HUD) GRANTS FOR DALLAS COUNTYDallas, TX — (Tuesday, September 21, 2010) The U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will be awarding Dallas County with a $2,342,611 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG), a $93,098 Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) and a $773,694 HOME grant.“I am so pleased that Dallas County will be receiving more than $3 million in funding to assist some of our most vulnerable citizens,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This funding will go a long way towards the goal of livable communities and affordable housing for lower-income families. Additionally, it will provide much needed assistance for our emergency shelters. With the current economic downturn we are seeing more families and children falling into homelessness. These funds will help address the plight of these individuals.”The CDBG program provides annual grants to States and local units of government to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and suitable living environments. The program also expands economic opportunities for low-and moderate-income people.The ESG program provides annual grants to State, local and private entities to improve the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters.The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low-and very low income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.21.2010	Successful Science and Technology Braintrust Draws HundredsCongresswoman Johnson gathers prominent leaders in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields to set positive examples for minority students.Washington, DC — (Tuesday, September 21, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson’s recent 2010 Science and Technology Braintrust brought nine leaders in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields together to share their personal stories of triumphs and tribulations with approximately 300 students. This year’s theme was “Believing by Seeing” and focused on closing the achievement gap of minorities in STEM fields.From left to right: President and Chief Executive Officer, TechNet, Mr. Ray Ramsey; President and Founder of Johnson Research & Development Co., Inc., Mr. Lonnie G. Johnson; Chairman & CEO of BET Television, Debra Lee; Vice Provost and Dean of the Graduate School – University of Maryland Baltimore County, Dr. Janet C. Rutledge; Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, TX-30; Co-Director of the Minority Institution Astrobiology Collaborative (MIAC), Dr. Benita Bell; NASA Astronaut/The Harris Foundation, Dr. Bernard A. Harris, Jr.; Professor of Neurosurgery, Oncology, Plastic Surgery and Pediatrics – Dir. Division of Pediatric Neurosurgery – The John Hopkins Hospital, Dr. Benjamin Carson.; Former Dir. NASA Glenn Research Center, Dr. Julian Earls; and NASA Astronaut Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center, Mr. Leland D. Melvin. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.20.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $14 MILLION IN GRANT FUNDS FOR DFWDallas, TX – (Monday, September 20, 2010) - Congresswoman Johnson today welcomed news that the Dallas Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) is receiving $14 million in grant funds from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for phase two of the rehabilitation and construction of its Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Training Facility. The $14 million is in addition to the $3 million awarded in August for phase one and will be used towards furthering improvements of ARFF.“I’m glad that DFW is receiving funds to continue with this important project,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The on-the-ground training provided at the DFW Fire Training Academy not only prepares local, regional, and nationwide emergency response personnel, but has also trained emergency workers from as far away as Latin America and Europe. We are privileged to have such an outstanding facility in North Texas.”The rehabilitation of ARFF is required to extend the useful life of the facility. The grant will also enable DFW to continue to meet the federal regulations required for training aircraft rescue and firefighting personnel.“This grant is an important step in moving the project forward, and it’s great news, not only for DFW, but also for airport firefighters and responders around the world,” said Jeff Fegan, DFW Airport CEO. “More than fifteen thousand airport firefighters from 29 states and 23 countries have trained at the DFW fire training facility over the past 15 years, so it is vital to the aviation community as a whole that we maintain this important resource.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.16.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON COMMEMORATES HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTHWashington, DC – (Thursday, September 16, 2010) Today, Congresswoman Johnson issued the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15 every year.“Hispanic values – faith, family, love of country – are American values. The Hispanic dream – the hope of a better, more prosperous future – is the American Dream. During Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community and pay tribute to the extraordinary contributions that Hispanics have made throughout our history, and continue to make to America every day.Economically, culturally, and politically, Latinos are a vital part of our nation. As the fastest growing ethnic group in our country, the 48.4 million-strong Hispanic community makes America a better and stronger nation. And over several generations, American life has been enriched by Hispanic contributions in business, education, government, and the arts. Over the last year and a half, the Democratic-led Congress has been working hard to improve the lives and meet the needs of America’s Hispanic families – from the economy, to small businesses, to making college more affordable, to health care, to veterans.Despite the growth and progress of our Hispanic community, unfortunately, many Hispanic families have not fared well economically over the last several years – due to the failed economic policies of the Bush Administration. The policies of the Bush Administration led to the worst recession since the Great Depression – resulting in the loss of 8 million American jobs. Due to the deep Bush recession, the Hispanic unemployment rate now stands at 12%. As a result of the Bush recession, when President Obama took office, job losses were averaging more than 700,000 a month. Since then, President Obama and a Democratic-led Congress have been working hard to dig the country out of the enormous hole President Bush left us in. Most recently, there have been eight straight months of private sector job growth. Jobs are the number-one issue for Hispanic families. In February 2009, Congress enacted the Recovery Act – which provides 98% of Americans workers with a tax cut; begins to rebuild America’s road, rail, and water infrastructure; and invests in clean energy and 21st century jobs. No one is satisfied with the current rate of job creation, but economists say that the economy would be much worse off without the Recovery Act and the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office states that, so far, the Act is responsible for up to 3.3 million jobs.The Democratic-led Congress has also enacted legislation that makes investments to save 161,000 teacher jobs this fall; provides state aid that is designed to create and save an additional 158,000 jobs, including police officers, firefighters, and private sector workers; and closes tax loopholes that encourage corporations to ship American jobs overseas.There are currently 2.3 million Hispanic-owned small businesses in this country. One of the key focuses of the Congress has been to help small businesses get back on their feet after the devastating Bush recession. The Congress has enacted eight small business tax cuts, including a new tax credit for hiring unemployed workers, bonus depreciation tax incentives to support new investment, expansion of limits on small business expensing, and a five-year carryback of net operating losses. These tax cuts are critical for America’s small businesses.Many Hispanic Americans are young people and a top priority of this Congress has been making college more affordable. Congress has enacted the largest student aid package in history – including increasing the maximum Pell Grant to $5,550 in 2010 and to $5,975 by 2017. This increase will help the 37% of Hispanic college students receiving Pell Grants. The bill also invests $1 billion over 10 years to strengthen Hispanic Serving Institutions, providing students with the support they need to stay in school and graduate.Another key issue for Hispanic families is health care. The Affordable Care Act puts patients – rather than insurance companies – back in charge of their health care. The Act enacts a Patient’s Bill of Rights, effective this year – which prohibits insurance companies from dropping people when they get sick, discriminating against children with pre-existing conditions, and imposing lifetime limits and restrictive annual limits on coverage. The Act also provides tax credits for small businesses to make employee health coverage more affordable for those businesses choosing to provide it; cuts prescription drug costs for seniors by phasing out the Medicare prescription drug ‘donut hole’ coverage gap; and extends the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by an additional 12 years. This legislation is vital for Hispanic families and Hispanic seniors.Finally, the Democratic-led Congress has enacted legislation to improve the lives of America’s veterans – including 1.1 million Hispanic veterans. For example, it has strengthened quality health care for more than 5 million veterans by investing 11% more for medical care, benefit claims processors, and facility improvements this year.I am proud to celebrate the heritage and contributions of America’s Hispanic community. We must do all we can to better ensure that all Latinos, like all Americans, have a meaningful opportunity to improve their lives and pursue the American Dream.”
09.14.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON’S 2010 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY BRAINTRUST ADDRESSES THE MINORITY ACHIEVEMENT GAP WHEN IT COMES TO SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING AND MATHEMATICSWashington, DC — (Tuesday, September 14, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson’s theme for the 2010 Science and Technology Braintrust “Believing by Seeing” focuses specifically on the achievement gap for minorities that continues to widen despite significant strides made to level the Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) playing fields. Congresswoman Johnson’s Braintrust will foster more tangible relationships and positive interaction between influential African-American role models in these fields and African-American youth.“When children see someone who looks like them succeeding, then the prospects for those children to believe in themselves and reach their full potential are far greater,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The Science and Technology Braintrust will feature two panels: the first “Individual Life Journeys” will feature prominent and successful role models in the fields of math, engineering and science. They will share their personal stories of struggle and triumph.Dr. Benita P. BellCo-Director of the Minority Institution Astrobiology Collaborative (MIAC)NASA Goddard Space Flight CenterDr. Benjamin CarsonProfessor of Neurosurgery, Oncology, Plastic Surgery and PediatricsDirector, Division of Pediatric NeurosurgeryCo-Director, Craniofacial CenterThe Johns Hopkins HospitalDr. Julian EarlsFormer DirectorNASA Glenn Research CenterDr. Bernard A. Harris, Jr.The Harris FoundationNASA Astronaut (First African American to perform a Space-Walk)Debra L. LeeChairman and Chief Executive OfficerBET TelevisionMr. Lonnie G. JohnsonPresident and FounderJohnson Research & Development Co., Inc.Mr. Leland D. MelvinNASA Astronaut (STS-122 Atlantis ` 24th Shuttle mission to visit the International Space Station)Lyndon B. Johnson Space CenterMr. Rey RamseyPresident and Chief Executive Officer, TechNetChairman, One EconomyDr. Janet C. RutledgeVice Provost and Dean of the Graduate SchoolUniversity of Maryland Baltimore County*Moderator: Leslie Foster – WUSA 9 Weekend AnchorThe second panel “Believing by Seeing: STEM Schools’ best Practices & Student Success” highlights personal testimonies from prominent (STEM) schools.Coppin Academy for Pre-nursing Success (CAPS) [Baltimore, Maryland]Dr. Marcella A. Copes, Dean, Coppin State University Helene Fuld School of NursingDr. Bevin Philip, Executive Director MD Academy of Technology & Health Sciences High School (MATHS)Dr. Frances C. Gordon, Project Coordinator – Coppin Academy for Pre-Nursing Success CAPS)Howard University’s Middle School of Mathematics and Science (MS)² [Washington, DC]Sue White, PrincipalYohance Maquebela, Chief Financial Officer and Director of DevelopmentJohn Goudeaux, Chief Academic OfficerYvonne A. Ewell Townview Magnet High School [Dallas, TX]Ms. Sandra Cato, Math TeacherMr. Keivon Spencer, Science TeacherUnited Negro College FundKarl W. Reid, Ed.D.Senior Vice President*Ms. Alice Black, Executive Principal, Yvonne A. Ewell Townview High SchoolThe Science and Technology Braintrust will be held at the Washington Convention Center, on Friday, September 17, 2010 in Ballroom B from 9:00 a.m. to Noon. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.08.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON CHOOSES NEW CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS FOUNDATION (CBCF) SCHOLARSHIP COMMITTEEDallas, TX - (Wednesday, September 08, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson announced the new CBCF Scholarship Committee today that will take over deciding which future students living in the TX-30 District will be CBCF Scholarship Fund recipients.The new CBCF Scholarship Committee:Ms. Mavis Knight presently serves on the Texas State Board of Education with extensive experience in community support and more than 30 years of volunteer service working with civic and education organizations that provide mentoring and other services to youth, families and seniors. Ms. Knight has also served as secretary of the State Board of Education.Mr. Randy Skinner serves as the director of the Greater Dallas Area Justice Revival. Mr. Skinner leads the adopted initiatives centered on safe homes, safe schools and safe communities. He also serves as a consultant to non-profits, government agencies and churches in the arena of urban transformation. Mr. Skinner is an advocate for justice committing to bringing about a change in the dismal issue of child abuse and offering positive alternatives to communities plagued with poverty and crime. He is also recognized for his work in Civil Rights cases in the African-American and Hispanic communities and presently serves as Chairman of the City of Dallas Ethics Advisory Commission, appointed by Mayor Tom Leppert. Mr. Roscoe C. Smith, Ph.D. has dedicated his life to service. Dr. Smith began his career in education as a Health and Science teacher in 1958. He soon was recruited to become a teacher in the Dallas Independent School District (DISD) and climbed the ranks to become the Director of Accountability in the DISD Central Office in 1970. Dr. Smith was the first African-American in Dallas to receive the “Outstanding Young Educator of Dallas” award presented by the Dallas Junior Chamber of Commerce and Classroom Teachers. He has designed and installed operations planning for the first Council Parent Advisory Council for DISD and it was recommended to Congress and President Nixon as a model for the nation by the National Advisory Council on the Education of Disadvantaged Children. Dr. Smith was also the liaison between all the schools in District 30 and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson in 1998 and retired in 2005 receiving the Special Congressional Recognition for Outstanding and Invaluable Services to the Community.Mr. Raul M. Magdaleno is the Director of Diversity & Community Outreach for Southern Methodist University Meadows School of the Arts. The vision of Mr. Magdaleno’s department is to connect the Southern Methodist campus to the Greater Dallas community and has provided opportunities for to more than 1,600 internationally-focused organizations representing people of different religions, ethnicities and beliefs with the goal of building a bridge of understanding and inclusiveness. Mr. Magdaleno also leads the first Hispanic Youth Institute. The institute’s programs have offered opportunities to more than 200 low-income high school students with the resources to achieve a college education, pursue a professional career and invest in their community as volunteers and leaders. Dr. Al Roberts is Professor Emeritus, Division of Education at Paul Quinn College. Dr. Roberts has been an active and dedicated Dallas educator for more than 20 years. He is active in a myriad of civic and community organizations. Dr. Roberts was nominated for the Ford Foundation Urban Educator Administrator Fellowship and is listed in the Who’s Who among Black Americans and Who’s Who in American Education just to name a few.“The new CBCF scholarship Committee consist of respected and qualified educators who care about the future of our children,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “They are eager to spread the word to students about the CBCF Scholarships.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.31.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ADDRESSES VIOLATING CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS FOUNDATION (CBCF) SCHOLARSHIP RULESWashington, DC — (Monday, August 30, 2010) “I am proud of the work that I have done for the 30th District of Texas. As a public servant, I have vowed to represent my constituents to the best of my ability. I have never and never planned to restrict my help to only Texans who reside in my district. My district lines have constantly changed and since I am the only Democrat in the entire North Texas Region, surrounded by Republicans, I have made myself accessible for nearly two decades. Much of my district office casework benefits people outside my constituency. While I am not ashamed of helping, I did not intentionally mean to violate any rules in the process – CBCF Scholarship Rules in particular.As previously stated, I was unaware of being in any type of violation and never intentionally violated the CBCF’s rules. Further, to rectify this matter immediately, I will reimburse the funds by the end of this week. Additionally, I have reinstituted a non-biased third party objective review committee to evaluate applications and put forth recommendations for future CBCF Scholarships. Going forward, this will eliminate conflicts of interest and consistently remain in compliance with CBCF Scholarship Rules.At present, I am home convalescing from major surgery. However, I am diligently working to resolve these issues as they are very important to me.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.24.2010	TEXANS WITH PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS NOW HAVE AFFORDABLE HEALTH CARE COVERAGEDallas, TX — (Tuesday, August 24, 2010) Texas, along with 21 other states, has decided to not participate in the Federal health insurance pools as mandated by the new Affordable Care Act. However, Congresswoman Johnson’s recommendation to provide affordable health insurance coverage for individuals with pre-existing conditions was well received by U. S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Secretary, Kathleen Sebelius. “I am pleased that this program is up and running,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I specifically asked for coverage for those with pre-existing conditions.” According to the Texas Medical Association, there are currently 5.4 million Texans who lack health insurance for which 1.5 million of them are children. The federal funding would expand the existing high risk pool offered in Texas in the amount of $493 million. Program eligibility is as follows:1). The applicant must be a citizen or national of the United States, or lawfully present in the Unites States;2). The applicant must have been uninsured for at least the last six months before they apply; and3). The applicant must have had a problem obtaining insurance due to a pre-existing condition.The pre-existing condition insurance plan will cover a broad range of health benefits to include: primary care, specialty care, hospital and prescription drugs.HHS began accepting applications on August, 1, 2010. For more information on the program and how to apply, please visit https://pcip.gov/Apply.html. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.19.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ANNOUNCES $3 MILLION IN AIRPORT IMPROVEMENT GRANTS FOR DFWDallas, TX — (Thursday, August 19, 2010) - Congresswoman Johnson welcomed the news that Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) will be receiving $3 million in Airport Improvement Program grant funds for the rehabilitation of the Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) Training Facility at DFW.“This grant is an important step in moving the project forward, and it’s great news, not only for DFW, but also for airport firefighters and responders around the world,” said Jeff Fegan, DFW Airport CEO. “More than fifteen thousand airport firefighters from 29 states and 23 countries have trained at the DFW fire training facility over the past 15 years, so it is vital to the aviation community as a whole that we maintain this important resource.”These funds will extend the useful life of the current facility and enable DFW to continue to meet federal regulations required for training its aircraft rescue and firefighting personnel, as well as training visiting firefighters.“I’m glad to see these funds going to DFW,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Although we all hope that the airport will never be the site for a fire or accident, it is reassuring to know that we have experienced personnel and an updated facility to handle any unforeseen incident.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.16.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON WELCOMES THE RELEASE OF $1 MILLION FOR THE I-30 BRIDGEDallas, TX — (Monday, August 16, 2010) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that the $1 million she secured in funding last year in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for Fiscal year 2010 has been released.The $1 million will be used towards reconstruction of the I-30 Bridge over the Trinity River.“Completion of the Margaret McDermott Bridge is one of my top transportation priorities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased that the funds were released and will continue to do all I can to secure federal funds for the improvement of this vital transportation corridor.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.10.2010	AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OFFERS PRESCRIPTION DRUG COST RELIEF TO MORE THAN $42K MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES IN TEXASNew Law Offers Third Round of One-Time, Tax Free $250 Rebate Checks for Eligible Medicare Beneficiaries in Medicare Part D Donut HoleWashington, DC — (Tuesday, August 10, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson supports the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services mailing of the third round of one-time, tax free $250 rebate checks to eligible Medicare beneficiaries. These beneficiaries’ drug costs are so high that they have now reached what is known as the Medicare Part D prescription “donut hole.”In Texas, approximately 42,247 seniors and persons with disabilities who rely on Medicare for access to health care have received new help with their prescription drug costs to date, thanks to the Affordable Care Act. Across the country, more than 750,000 Medicare beneficiaries have already received checks this year, and more beneficiaries will be receiving checks in the coming months as they enter the coverage gap.“The benefits of this bill continue to increase as time moves along. I feel this is probably the most herald achievement in the last 25 years,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It makes it so much better for seniors.”The rebate checks will partly close the donut hole this year, with the $250 one-time checks for beneficiaries who enter the gap. In 2011, the Affordable Care Act takes an additional step for Medicare beneficiaries in the donut hole by providing them with a 50 percent discount on their brand name medications. Every year from 2011 to 2020, the Affordable Care Act will take progressive steps towards closing the donut hole.In addition to savings on prescription drugs, the new law takes a series of steps to strengthen Medicare. Under the Affordable Care Act:• Medicare beneficiaries will receive free preventive care services like mammograms and certain colon cancer tests and a free annual physical starting in 2011;• By 2018, seniors can expect to save on average almost $200 per year in premiums compared to what they would have paid without the new law, and most beneficiaries will also see a significant reduction in their Medicare coinsurance as a result of the Affordable Care Act; and• The life of the Medicare Trust Fund is now expected to remain solvent until 2029.Medicare beneficiaries who do not already receive Medicare’s Extra Help receive these checks automatically in the mail when they reach the donut hole; there is no requirement to sign up. Seniors should never give out personal information to anyone who is not a trusted source. Seniors are encouraged to contact 1-800-MEDICARE to report any solicitations of personal information, or go to www.stopmedicarefraud.gov to learn about how the Affordable Care Act helps to protect seniors from scams and safeguard taxpayer dollars. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.10.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON VOTES TO SAVE AND CREATE JOBS OF AMERICAN TEACHERS, FIREFIGHTERS, POLICE OFFICERS, NURSES AND THE PRIVATE SECTOR – WHILE REDUCING DEFICITWashington, DC — (Tuesday, August 10, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson voted today to save and create almost 320,000 jobs – including saving the jobs of 160,000 teachers and preventing the layoffs of tens of thousands of police officers, firefighters, and nurses. The House reconvened this week to take up this emergency aid to help states keep teachers in our classrooms and first responders on duty. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act is not only completely paid for, it reduces the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years—in part by closing a loophole that actually encourages corporations to ship American jobs overseas. “Many local communities in Texas are being forced to choose between important public services – like keeping teachers in the classrooms or keeping police officers on the beat in our neighborhoods,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “So, I came back to Washington this week to vote on a bill that is a win-win-win: it helps keep teachers and first responders on the job, it is fiscally responsible by actually reducing the deficit, and it is able to do that by closing a tax loophole that promotes shipping jobs overseas. Not acting could have jeopardized the future of our children and the public’s safety.”The legislation provides $10 billion in funding to save more than 160,000 teacher jobs. It also provides $16.1 billion in health assistance to the states that, by reducing shortfalls and stimulating the economy, will save and create 158,000 jobs, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and firefighters, as well as creating private-sector jobs throughout our economy. The funding in the bill is supported by a majority of the nation’s Governors, including many Republican Governors, and by numerous organizations, including the bipartisan National Conference of State Legislatures, National Association of Counties and the Leadership Council of Aging Organizations. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.10.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON VOTES TO BOOST BORDER SECURITYWashington, DC – (Tuesday, August 10, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson voted today to boost our nation’s border security, putting more agents on patrol and protecting communities along the southern border. The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Border Security legislation provides $600 million in emergency funding to shore up our border – including more than $240 million to hire 1,000 new Border Patrol agents and 250 new Customs and Border Protection agents.“A nation can't be secure if its borders aren't secure. In the wake of September 11th, it's unbelievable that we've lost control over who is in our country and where they are,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “By providing this funding, we are strengthening our border security and reducing violence along the Southwest border.”The legislation will provide funds to deploy unmanned drones to fly along our southern border and provide our patrol officers on the ground with real-time information on unlawful border crossings. It will also improve communications capabilities between federal border enforcement and state and local officers along the border. It helps Immigration and Customs Enforcement conduct investigations of drug-runners, money-launderers, and human traffickers. And, it provides nearly $200 million to increase the number of ATF, DEA and FBI agents on our border and to bolster the number of prosecutors and court resources along our border so that wrongdoers can be immediately brought to justice.“Strengthening border security is one of the central pillars of bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform. I’m glad we could come together to pass this important legislation today. We need to continue to work on other key components of comprehensive reform. We are a nation of laws, but we are also a nation of immigrants,” said Congresswoman Johnson.This legislation is fiscally responsible and fully paid for, mostly by increasing, over five years, the cost of two visas which permit foreign workers to come and work in the United States. These fee increases, which would raise $550 million, would apply only to companies with more than 50 employees AND for whom the majority of their workforce is visa-holding foreign workers. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.04.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON PROMOTES PUTTING AMERICANS BACK TO WORKDallas, TX (August 4, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson along with Assistant Secretary of Labor, Jane Oates, gathered yesterday to discuss the importance of job training programs and how they can and will help put Americans back to work.The forum, which was held at the Southwest Workforce Center, brought together leaders from Workforce Solutions of Greater Dallas, the Dallas County Community College District (DCCCD), Dallas One-Stop Optimized Reentry System (DOORS) and the private sector to discuss the plethora of services offered to help employers and job seekers.“Americans want to work and I wanted to share with Assistant Secretary of Labor, Jane Oates, the success Workforce Solutions of Greater Dallas was having helping battle unemployment,” said Congresswoman Johnson.Other community leaders who attended were: President of Workforce Solutions of Greater Dallas, Laurie Larrea; Chairman of Workforce Solutions, Gilbert Gerst; Vice-Chairman of Workforce Solutions, Patrick Aulson; Executive Director of Dallas One-Stop Optimized Reentry Systems (DOORS), Edgar Michael Lee and Vice-Chancellor for Marketing & Governmental Affairs of Dallas County Community College District, Justin Lonon. From left to right: Vice-Chairman of the Board of Workforce Solutions, Patrick Aulson; Assistant Secretary of Labor, Jane Oates; Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson and Chairman of the Board of Workforce Solutions, Gilbert Gerst
08.02.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON SUPPORTS ACADEMICALLY-BASED SOCIAL STUDIES CURRICULUM FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLSWashington, DC – (Monday, August 2, 2010) - Congresswoman Johnson has introduced a resolution (H. Res. 1593) that supports academically-based social studies curriculum standards for the nation’s public schools. This bill was introduced in response to the Texas State Board of Education’s recently approved curriculum standards for social studies. After months of discussion regarding the curriculum this May, the Texas State Board of Education disregarded many academically-based recommendations and approved politically-biased standards that are outside of mainstream scholarship.“Whether or not one agrees with these particular ideas, they represent a view that is outside the mainstream of academic and historic scholarship,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “They were not added by experts and historians, but politicians. While it is fine to examine the many philosophical beliefs of the American people, it must be done in a balanced and responsible way.”Due to the size and influence of the Texas textbook market, curriculum standards adopted in Texas have long exerted a strong influence on public school textbooks used around the United States.“The politicization of public school social studies curriculum in Texas has garnered national attention. It represents a dangerous precedent of skewed and selective historical perspective that could be replicated in any state. It should not be up to any politician to write history, rather teachers and experts in the field should be utilized to determine standards of curriculum,” said Congresswoman Johnson.This resolution was introduced with four cosponsors: Representatives Solomon Ortiz, Ruben Hinojosa, Silvestre Reyes and Gene Green. In addition it is supported by: American Federation of Teachers; Americans for Religious Liberty; American Association of University Women; Americans United for Church State Separation; Anti-Defamation League; Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty; Catholics for Choice; Hindu American Foundation; Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network; Interfaith Alliance National Council of Jewish Women; National Educational Association; National Association of Secondary School Principals; People for the American Way; Secular Coalition for America; Texas Freedom Network and Texas Faith Network; and the United Church of Christ Justice & Witness Ministries
07.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON STANDS UP FOR TROOPS AND VETERANSWashington, DC – (Wednesday, July 28, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson voted today to support our troops and veterans by ensuring critical funding for veterans health services and the construction of key facilities for training and housing our military. As our troops return home from Iraq, the funding is a 7.4 percent increase over the previous year for veterans’ health care and benefits, including funding more than 4,000 additional permanent claims processors. The funding also continues this Congress’s first-ever advance appropriations, ensuring timely and reliable funding for veterans’ services.“This Congress has a proven record of taking care of the needs of our troops and our veterans,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Today, we built on that record by making sure that funding for veterans health benefits keeps pace with the needs of a nation at war and never gets delayed because of political games.”With passage of this bill, since January 2007, the New Direction Congress will have provided a 70 percent increase in funding for veterans’ health care and benefits, over 10,000 new claims processors to reduce VA case backlogs, 3,389 new doctors and 14,316 new nurses, 145 new community-based vet outpatient clinics, and 92 new vet centers. This legislation, the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, strengthens the VA workforce to tackle claims backlogs and to process new educational benefits provided through the new GI Bill enacted in the last Congress, under Democratic leadership. And, it allows the VA to process newly eligible claims for disabilities of Vietnam veterans and their survivors due to exposure to Agent Orange. The legislation also provides new family caregiver benefits for disabled veterans.“Our veterans have sacrificed and put their lives on the line to keep our nation safe. When they return home, it is our responsibility to make sure they have the care and support they need. In the past three years, Congress has really stepped up to fulfill those needs,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The bill also addresses critical military construction needs to train and house our troops. It accelerates the Army’s program to modernize troop housing for trainees, addresses unfunded construction requirements of our Guard and Reserve and expedites the environmental cleanup on closed military bases. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SUPPORTS “MAKE IT IN AMERICA” LEGISLATIONWashington, D.C. (Wednesday, July 28, 2010) Congresswoman Johnson voted today in support of Democrats “Make it in America” strategy by supporting three bills that will rebuild the American manufacturing base, put the American people back to work, and grow our economy. With an emphasis on creating the high-skill, high-wage jobs of the future, “Make it in America” promotes American competitiveness, innovation, and exports.“For every job we create in manufacturing, 4 more jobs will be created in other industries. Moving America forward means reinvigorating the manufacturing industry at home,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud to support a strategy that will create good paying jobs that stay in the United States, and help us remain leaders in the world economy.”The three bills passed by the House today represent crucial next steps in the Democratic “Make it in America” agenda. The National Manufacturing Strategy Act creates a Manufacturing Strategy Board that will develop short- and long-term goals for America’s manufacturing industry. The Clean Energy Technology Manufacturing and Export Assistance Act supports our clean American energy economy by making it easier for companies to navigate foreign market and promoting investments and reducing production costs for these companies. The End the Trade Deficit Act rethinks United States trade policy so that we no longer import more than we export.“With these bills, we are one step closer to changing our manufacturing sector for the better,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “When we make it in America more middle class families will make it too.”America has been at the forefront of every technological and industrial innovation. And, we will continue to lead the world if we support our manufacturing base and put Americans back to work making things again. With our “Make it in America” strategy, Democrats are: • Closing the tax loopholes that encourage outsourcing U.S. jobs overseas.• Providing hometown tax credits to help small businesses hire new employees and sell their products and innovation overseas.• Boosting incentives to create American clean energy jobs like state-of-the-art wind turbines and solar panels–paid for by ending corporate welfare to Big Oil.• Strengthening rules that U.S. and its contractors buy American, especially to build transportation, energy, and communications infrastructure.• Forcing China and other countries to honor fair trade principles or lose American business.• Giving incentives to hire and re-train America’s returning veterans for new clean energy jobs.• Strengthening partnerships with businesses to retrain America’s workers for jobs of the future. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.27.2010	TEXANS TO RECEIVE $2.25 BILLION IN GRANTS TO EXTEND MONEY FOLLOWS THE PERSON REBALANCING DEMONSTRATIONGrant Helps Support Community-Based Alternatives to Institutional Long-Term CareWashington, DC (Tuesday, July 27, 2010) – Texans with disabilities can now receive care in the comfort of their own homes instead of in long-term institutional care facilities through the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Grant. This grant, which is being issued to states this week, encourages states that are not part of the Money Follows the Person (MFP) Rebalancing Demonstration to apply for grant funding.The (MFP) Rebalancing Demonstration Program initially provided assistance to 31 states that needed help balancing their long-term care systems. Through the Health and Human Services (HHS) Community Living Initiative and the Affordable Care Act more people needing help moving from long-term facilities to their homes will now be able to. An additional $450 million will extend this program through fiscal year 2016; for a total of $2.25 billion. The added money allows 20 more states to apply for grant.“Giving people with various disabilities the opportunity to be cared for in a familiar surrounding is a good thing. I am very pleased that Texas was among the original 31 states to receive the grant,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I encourage other states to apply for it.”On August 11, 2010, CMS will facilitate a national call for all interested MFP demonstration applicants. Beginning in September, CMS will offer a series of technical assistance calls and training webinars to provide instruction to states on grant application development.A copy of the invitation to apply for the “FY2010 Money Follows the Person Rebalancing Grant Demonstration,” including the application forms and information on the August 11, 2010 national call, can be obtained at www.grants.gov. For more, visit https://www.cms.gov/CommunityServices/20_MFP.asp. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.14.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON PRAISES FREE PREVENTIVE CARE BENEFITS FROM HEALTH CARE REFORM Washington, DC(Wednesday, July 14, 2010) – Today, Congresswoman Johnson applauded the new regulations issued by the Obama Administration to help make prevention affordable by requiring new health plans to cover recommended preventive services at no cost to the patient. The regulations, based off of provisions in the Affordable Care Act, will keep Americans healthier and help save money over the long term by increasing access to preventive care. “We know that many Americans don’t get the preventive care they need because of the cost. Seven in ten deaths in America result from chronic and often preventable diseases – this is unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, free preventive care now will keep many Texans healthier and save money in the long run.” Thanks to this reform, Americans who enroll in a new health plan on or after September 23, 2010, will have access to preventive services without being charged a deductible, copayment or coinsurance. Next year, an estimated 41 million Americans will benefit from these new prevention provisions -- 31 million in new employer plans and 10 million in new individual plans. By 2013, an estimated 88 million Americans will benefit from the provisions – 78 million in new employer plans and 10 million in new individual plans. Comprehensive preventive care can save billions of dollars and thousands of lives. There are 69 million workers reporting missed days due to illness each year, which reduces economic output in this country by $260 billion per year. Every dollar spent on immunizations could save $5.30 on direct health care costs. However, the costs of these services are often prohibitive, and Americans currently use preventive services at only half the recommended rate. “While Democrats are fighting to give all Americans access to free preventive care, Republicans are threatening to repeal this benefit and all of the benefits of historic health care reform,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This is one of the many important reforms Democrats created to save working families money and put them – not insurance companies - in control of their health care.” Depending on your age and health risks, the types of preventive services that will be available without a deductible, co-pay or co-insurance under these new provisions include:Blood pressure, diabetes, and cholesterol tests;Many cancer screenings;Routine vaccines for diseases such as measles, polio, or meningitis;Flu and pneumonia shots;Counseling, screening and vaccines for healthy pregnancies; andRegular well-baby and well-child visits, from birth to age 21. Americans are beginning to see the benefits of health reform. Seniors who are affected by the Medicare prescription drug ‘donut hole’ coverage gap are receiving checks to lower their costs, 4 million small businesses have received notice that they are eligible for a health care tax credit potentially worth tens of thousands of dollars to help them cover their employees, young adults are starting to be allowed to stay on their parents’ insurance, insurance companies have stopped their practice of rescissions – or dropping people’s coverage when they need it most, and some outrageous premium hikes have been reversed. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.08.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON TO ANNOUNCE MILLIONS IN FEDERAL FUNDING TO IMPROVE DOWNTOWN MOBILITYWashington, DC (Thursday, July 8, 2010) – Dallas, Texas will soon have additional streetcars thanks to the Federal Transit Administration’s Urban Circulator Grant Program. Congresswoman Johnson and other officials will announce the $4.9 million grant to the 30th Congressional District at a press conference on Monday, July 12, 2010 (media advisory forthcoming).The Dallas Area Rapid Transit Authority (DART) will distribute the money that will be used towards building a 0.65-mile urban streetcar track extension to an existing system. This project will link the current McKinney Trolley to the existing DART light rail St. Paul station and to the McKinney Trolley Olive Street extension in the heart of downtown Dallas. The connection to the Olive Street extension would form an entire reversing loop for the trolley, making operations safer and more efficient, while connecting downtown destinations such as the Dallas museum of Art and the Nasher Sculpture Center to Uptown Dallas.“These funds will help residents interconnect our existing transportation services and allow better access to downtown Dallas,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The Urban Circulator Program, which is a part of the Administration’s Livability Initiative, was selected on a competitive basis through a new program announced last year. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.07.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON LAUDS NEW HEALTH CARE INFORMATION RESOURCEThis Website, Required by Health Reform Statute, Will Help Put Americans in Charge of Their Health CareWashington, DC (Thursday, July 1, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson applauded the launch of HealthCare.gov, the most comprehensive resource about health care that is available today, July1st. The website hosts a wealth of clear, jargon-free information, including a consumer-friendly tool that will help individuals and small business navigate the complicated process of shopping for health insurance.The creation of this website was one of the key features for consumers that was included in the Health Insurance Reform legislation that was signed into law in March.“Information is power, and this site puts power back into the 30th Congressional District’s hands,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Whether you are a new college graduate, a family who has recently lost insurance or someone with a pre-existing condition, this site has a list of insurance options available for you. I urge all of my constituents to use this resource and learn how the health reform law can help you.”The core of the new website is the powerful insurance option finder, which after inputting pieces of information like state, age range and current insurance status, the tool will generate a list of both private and public health insurance options.“Finally, families and small businesses can easily search for the available insurance options and make informed decisions about their health care with thorough, unbiased information,” said Congresswoman Johnson. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.07.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON SUPPORTS CHILDREN OF FALLEN SOLDIERSWashington, DC (Thursday, July1, 2010) – Starting today, July 1st, children of soldiers who died in Iraq and Afghanistan conflict will be eligible for a full Pell Grant award under the Department of Education’s Iraq and Afghanistan Service Grants. In 2008, Congresswoman Johnson, in conjunction with Congressman Don Young of Alaska, introduced and passed this legislative provision as part of H.R. 4137, the College Opportunity and Affordability Act of 2007.“As we reflect on the costs of this war, we must realize that many of these brave soldiers have left families and young children behind,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The death of a parent is not only emotionally devastating for a child, but often creates financial hardships for the family.” The Iraq and Afghanistan grants offer financial assistance and access to higher education for children who lost a parent or guardian as a result of these wars. These grants offer the children of those brave soldiers who gave their lives in the name of service for our country a chance for a bright future.For more information please log on to: https://studentaid.ed.gov/PORTALSWebApp/students/english/grants.jsp ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.06.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON PROTECTS EXEMPTION FOR TRINITY LEVEES IN THE SUPPLEMENTALWashington, DC (Tuesday, July 6, 2010) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted for and the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4899, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2010. Included in the bill are key provisions such as protecting an existing Senate amendment that exempts the Corps of Engineering and the Federal Highway Administration from having to determine if the Trinity River Levees are historic. Without these exemptions, Dallas residents would almost certainly be burdened with having to purchase flood insurance.The exemption is headed back to the Senate for consideration and if passed, the City of Dallas will be able to move forward with its remediation of the Trinity River Levees allowing them to meet federal flood-mapping deadlines. “I was pleased to protect this critical amendment offered by Senator Hutchinson that is needed to ensure the safety of Dallas residents from flooding,” said Congresswoman Johnson. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.06.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON HELPS UPDATE FEDERAL LAWS RELATED TO OIL DRILLING OPERATIONS Washington, DC (Tuesday, July 6, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson and Chairman James Oberstar have introduced H.R. 5629, the Oil Spill Accountability and Environmental Protection Act of 2010 on June 29, 2010. This bill comes after several hearings investigating the potential cause of the devastating April 20th explosion that caused on-going release of oil in the Gulf of Mexico. The bill makes changes to items under the Transportation Committee’s jurisdiction including liability, water pollution, vessels, marine safety and various other issues in hopes of preventing another disaster like this from happening in the future. H.R. 5629, as approved by the Committee: -Repeals or adjusts the existing limitations on liability for offshore facilities and vessels, so that responsible parties will cover 100 percent of the oil pollution cleanup costs and damages to third parties;-Increases the minimum level of financial responsibility for an offshore facility to $1.5 billion and requires the President to review the minimum level of financial responsibility for an offshore facility every three years, and to revise the level upward to reflect the potential risk of a release to human health and the environment;-Amends the Death on the High Seas Act and the Jones Act, both enacted in 1920, to authorize the recovery of non-pecuniary damages currently allowed under general maritime law and repeals the Limitation of Liability Act of 1851, which unduly limits the liability of a ship owner to the value of the vessel and freight;-Requires that all vessels engaged in oil drilling activities in the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone (200-mile zone) be U.S.-flag vessels owned by U.S. citizens, and therefore subject to U.S. safety regulations;-Requires that all Mobile Offshore Drilling Units develop and implement a safety management plan to address all activities on the vessel that may threaten the safety of the vessel or its crew, and requires that such vessels are under the command of a licensed and proficient master who is responsible for the safety of both the navigational and drilling operations;-Requires the Coast Guard to concur in the oil spill response plan for all offshore facilities;-Requires that Environmental Protection Agency, the Coast Guard, and the Department of Transportation evaluate and approve response plans submitted by owners and operators of oil-related vessels and facilities, and to reject or require revisions to those plans that are found to be deficient in preventing or addressing potential discharges of oil or hazardous substances; and-Repeals an existing oil and gas construction storm-water exemption, which was included as an amendment approved by voice vote. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek,Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.30.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON HELPS SECURE $84 MILLION FOR DALLAS AREA RAPID TRANSIT’S NW/SE GREEN LINEDallas, TX (Wednesday, June 30, 2010) – In her continuing efforts to help North Texas’ public transportation structure, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today helped secure $84 million in federal funds from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for the construction of the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) NW/SE Green Line.“I am pleased that DOT released the funds I’ve secured to DART to help improve mobile transit access for residents,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The project is an approximately 21-mile, two-segment extension of DART’s light rail transit (LRT) system and an operating facility, which will be designed to accommodate the storage and maintenance of vehicles. The Northwest (NW) segment will extend approximately 10.9 miles from the Dallas central business district to the city of Farmers Branch. The Southeast (SE) will extend approximately 10.1 miles from the central business district to Buckner Boulevard. The project also includes: construction of 16 stations and approximately 2,700 parking spaces, a Service and Inspection facility, and a Ways Structures Amenities building. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.29.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON TO HOLD TELEPHONE TOWN HALL MEETINGWashington, DC (Tuesday, June 29, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson invites all constituents to partake in a telephone town hall meeting.“By joining the telephone call, the 30th Congressional District will be able to voice their opinions and ask me questions about many crucial issues that face our district and our nation,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “It is through the concerns and advice of my constituents that I can better advocate for them in Congress.”What: Town Hall Telephone MeetingWhen: Thursday, July 1, 2010 at 8:10 p.m. (EST)How: Call toll free (877) 299-8493 then enter pin #12854 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.23.2010	DALLAS GETS BILLIONS FOR FREEWAYWashington, DC (Tuesday, June 22, 2010) – Congresswoman Johnson announced today that drivers in the Dallas-Fort Worth metro area will soon experience less traffic jams because of a $1,465 billion loan from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The funding for the loan is broken into two sources: the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) is loaning $850 million to go towards the reconstruction of I-635 (commonly referred to as the LBJ Freeway) and the addition of new toll lanes. This is the second largest loan in history given by TIFIA. The remaining $615 million loan will come from tax-exempt private activity bonds.“Traffic in Dallas continues to be a high priority to me,” said Congresswoman Johnson.The reconstruction project specifically targets 13 miles along I-635 and I-35E in Dallas County. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.16.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON’S STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S ADDRESS TO THE NATION ON BP OIL SPILLWashington, DC (Wednesday, June 16, 2010) – I stand behind President Obama’s position to hold BP accountable for this horrific environmental catastrophe. Our administration is committed to containing the damage from the BP oil spill and providing the people of the Gulf the help they need for as long as they need it.I also agree with President Obama’s stand on the need for alternative energy. The House of Representatives has passed a comprehensive energy and climate bill and there is currently a bipartisan plan in the Senate that would achieve similar goals. The President is committed to working with anyone from either party who is dedicated to finding solutions.As the Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, we have held several hearings that revealed BP’s attempt to hide the true size and scope of this oil spill. I will continue to work with President Obama and offer recommendations on what additional safety and environmental standards need to be put in place. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.15.2010	THE INTERNATIONAL INLAND PORT OF DALLAS EMPLOYMENT TRAINING PROGRAM RECEIVES THOUSANDSDallas, TX (Tuesday, June 15, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson has announced that the City of Dallas will receive $186 thousand to provide training for employment in the logistics industry to support the developing International Inland Port of Dallas (IIPOD). IIPOD is a joint project of the City of Dallas, Dallas County and the cities of Balch Springs, Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Desoto, Hutchins, Lancaster, Mesquite and Seagoville.Congresswoman Johnson secured these funds as part of the FY 2009 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill. The project will provide 130 participants in southern Dallas with workforce training to become logistics workers and technicians. Cedar Valley College and Workforce Solutions of Greater Dallas are project partners and job placement assistance will be provided at the end of training. The training process is intended to help provide employers in the warehousing and materials transportation industries with skilled worker. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.11.2010	SENIORS TO RECEIVE MEDICARE REBATE CHECKSWashington, DC (Friday, June 11, 2010) – As Congress begins to implement health care reform, Texas seniors who have fallen victim to the Medicare Part D “donut hole” will soon see help in the mail. Congresswoman Johnson announced that this week Medicare began mailing $250 rebate checks to help seniors manage health care costs and ultimately eliminate the “donut hole” gap in prescription drug coverage.Here is how it works: The one-time free $250 checks to help cover prescription costs started going out this week. Only seniors who have hit the coverage gap (drug costs that exceed $2,830) will receive a rebate check, and if you hit it in the future, you should get a check a month later. To find out where you stand in the coverage gap, please visit https://www.medicare.gov/.Even if you are not getting a check, the Affordable Care Act provides a number of Medicare benefits seniors should be aware of like free preventive care, community health teams to make it easier to deal with multiple doctors and improvements to Medicare Advantage that saves seniors money.“Seniors don’t fall victim to scams,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “Some people are calling seniors asking them for their social security numbers and other information in order to receive their rebate checks, this is simply untrue. Seniors have earned their benefits and Congress has a responsibility to deliver them.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.10.2010	NORTH DALLAS HIGH SCHOOL STUDENT COMPLETES THE PAGE PROGRAM IN THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVESWashington, DC (Thursday, June 10, 2010) LaShaun Steward, a junior at North Dallas High School, has finished the Congressional Page Program.“I was speechless when I first heard that I was selected,” said Steward. “Words cannot express the excitement I felt.”Steward, who was one of 72 pages, wrote two essays with one concentrating on the contributions she planned to make to the diverse group in the program. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson sponsored Steward’s selection.“I congratulate LaShaun on the wonderful opportunity of serving as a Congressional Page, and I know she represented Dallas well,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Her experience as a Page is one that will serve her well as she works to achieve her goals.”Steward served as a Congressional Page from January 24, 2010 to June 4, 2010. While on the Hill, Steward assisted Representatives with their legislative duties, attended all sessions of the House, and delivered messages and packages. Steward also earned a salary for her work and received credit for her second semester after attending the House Page School. From left to right: LaShaun Stewart and Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.10.2010	DALLAS COUNTY COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT RECEIVES FUNDINGDallas, TX (Thursday, June 10, 2010) The Dallas County College District (DCCCD) is the largest undergraduate institution in the state of Texas. The DCCCD, which consists of seven colleges – Brookhaven, Cedar Valley, Eastfield, El Centro, Mountain View, North Lake and Richland, plus the R. Jan LeCroy Center for Educational Telecommunications, will receive funding in the amount of $300,000 for the period August 1, 2010 through July 31, 2011. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson secured this funding for DCCCD within the fiscal year 2010 Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill.This grant will help launch the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Professions Initiative. The initiative will have two major emphases: (1) STEM focus to encourage career choice and degree completion in the STEM fields and (2) STEM Teacher Education focus to prepare potential teachers for 7-12th grade classrooms. “The number of scientific papers published by Americans is declining, Americans are receiving fewer Nobel Prizes in the sciences, and almost half of the industrial patents we award go to foreigners. This is evidence that the foundation of our innovation-based economy is experiencing dangerous deterioration. For America, this is unacceptable,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We are not placing an emphasis on our nation’s teachers. Many of our brightest minds are not getting the money they need and are pursuing alternative careers. Our youth notices the trend and opts not to teach in place of more profitable careers. If America is to remain the Mecca of innovation, products and technologies, we must incentivize teaching science and math.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.07.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON WELCOMES NEW DIABETES HEALTH AND WELLNESS INSTITUTEDallas, Texas (Monday, June 7, 2010) The impact of diabetes in the Dallas/Fort Worth area presents serious public health concerns for the North Texas community. It is estimated by the Baylor Healthcare system that 250,000 residents are currently living with diabetes, however it is estimated that 30% of the population is currently diagnosed. It is in response to these statistics that Baylor has committed $15 million over 5 years to create the Diabetes Health & Wellness Institute at the Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center in the Frazier community of South Dallas.Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, a non-practicing registered nurse, stood among civic leaders such as Dallas Mayor Tom Leppert to welcome the new facility and its mission of serving the health needs of the Dallas area. “The prevention and treatment of diabetes addresses one of the most important public health issues faced in our communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Unfortunately, diabetes most seriously affects our most vulnerable and underserved populations; those who can least find appropriate care or even guidance on how to avoid this preventable disease.” Statistically, the diabetes-related hospitalization rate is 17% higher for Southern Sector residents, and the mortality rate of those who reside in the 75210 zip code is three times higher than the others in the greater Dallas area.The new facility, which comes after renovating 20,000 square feet of the Juanita J. Craft Recreation Center, includes the new 5,000 square-foot health center and adding an additional 5,000 square foot for meeting/educational space. The Baylor Health Care System estimates that 10-to-15 new jobs will be created, and they are committed to hire from within the community. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.03.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON ADDRESSES GOVERNOR PERRY’S CRITICISM OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’S (EPA) POLUTION PERMIT PROCESSWashington, DC (Thursday, June 03, 2010) The Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) responsibility is to ensure that 15 million Texans breathe clean air, and that the Texas air permitting program fully complies with the federal Clean Air Act. Governor Rick Perry expressed opposition to this decision, a decision that could affect dozens of major refiners, power plants and chemical facilities in the state. “We should not attack the EPA for doing its job required by law to enforce the Clean Air Act and protect the public health in Texas. Public health advocates, environmentalists, and citizens across Texas want the EPA to do even more to ensure TCEQ is effective and its goals are achieved,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is true that Texas air has drastically improved over the last ten years. However, it would be a mistake to assume it has improved to protect the health of 18 million of Texans. We need as much as twice those reductions in ozone to truly have clean air in our State. Texas has had 123 ozone violations since March and a hot day of summer has not even arrived. As of June 1st, six major urban areas Austin, Beaumont, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, and North East Texas have already suffered bad air days with high ozone. Our school children should not have to stay inside during recess on sunny days because the air is so bad. Congresswoman Johnson continued, “Texas has one of the worst air quality and ozone problems in the country, part by refusing to follow the Clean Air Act in Texas. We should not allow industrial polluters to emit high levels of dirty air pollution. EPA is responsible to enforce the Clean Air Act in Texas and must ask the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) to stop allowing these dangerous levels of pollution in Texas.”Congresswoman Johnson continues to be a strong advocate for the Clean Air Act, both at the federal and state level. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.02.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON TO ANNOUNCE HOPE VI GRANT FOR TURNER COURTS AT 10:00A.M. PRESS CONFERENCE Dallas, TX (Wednesday, June 02, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson will join the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Deputy Secretary, Ron Sims and the Dallas Housing Authority’s Board of Commissions and its President and CEO, MaryAnn Russ tomorrow at a press conference announcing the HOPE VI grant for the revitalization of the Turner Courts Development. What: Turner Courts Development to receive the HOPE VI Grant Date: Thursday, June 3, 2010Time: 10:00 a.m. Location: Turner Courts Multipurpose Center 6805 Canaan Street Dallas, TX 75218 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON STANDS BEHIND BILL TO INVEST IN SCIENCE, INNOVATION AND EDUCATION Washington, D.C. (Friday, May 28, 2010) The bold new bill, H.R. 5116 the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2010, which makes significant investments in science, innovation, and education, passed the House of Representatives by a 262 to 150 vote today. This bill will strengthen the U.S. scientific and economic leadership, support employers, and create jobs in the short-, mid-, and long-term. It will help to prepare thousands of new teachers and provide current teachers with better materials and skills. It makes concerted efforts to increase the number of Advanced Placement teachers in high-need schools and provides students in high-need communities with access to laboratory experiences. This legislation includes important programs drafted by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s hand. “I am pleased in committee we prohibited the consolidation of programs that serve minority institutions and students at the National Science Foundation. I applaud the committee for including H.R. 1144, The Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering act, legislation I have sponsored for two Congresses. I also commend the committee for including my amendment which will give Minority Serving Institutions priority consideration for Energy Innovation HUBS.”“My colleagues and I on the Committee on Science and Technology have held numerous hearings and markups to prepare the legislation that passed the House today,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “In order to become energy independent, create new jobs and exports, and develop the next great technology, we must invest robustly in scientific education and innovation. This is the goal of America COMPETES and I am pleased provisions are in this bill for all Americans.”“America cannot afford to give up on science, innovation and education. Our Nation is being outpaced by our competitors in graduating Scientists and Engineers. It is so important to invest wisely in programs that truly make a difference in the achievement of our young people.”“America COMPETES is about our future. It’s about ensuring we are taking the right steps towards increasing American competitiveness and innovation. It’s also about strengthening diversity in our nation’s scientific enterprise so all Americans can compete in the 21st century. We have an obligation to the future of our Nation to assure every segment of our population has equal access and opportunity to pursue careers in STEM.”“I will continue to fight for innovation, justice, parity and equality for all Americans,” said Congresswoman Johnson ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SALUTES OUR FALLEN SOLDIERS “Memorial Day: Putting our Troops and Veterans First”Washington, DC (Friday, May 28, 2010) Each year on Memorial Day, Americans come together to remember those who have sacrificed their lives on behalf of our country in the name of freedom and democracy. The debt owed to them is immeasurable. Their sacrifices and those of their military families are freedom’s foundation. Without the brave efforts of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen and their families, our country would not live so freely. On this Memorial Day, we continue to be engaged in hostilities in Iraq and Afghanistan, and young men and women will pay the ultimate price while wearing the uniform of our nation. Let us honor the memory of the 4,400 Americans who have died in Iraq and more than 1,000 who have died in Afghanistan. We also honor the sacrifices of our wounded: nearly 32,000 U.S. troops in Iraq and 5,700 in Afghanistan. As we remember their patriotic sacrifices, we renew our commitment to keep our promises to the nation’s 3 million troops and reservists, their families, and 23 million veterans. We promise to help them succeed. With this economic crisis, Congress has enacted critical measures to expand educational opportunity and economic relief. The new Post 9-11 GI Bill, which took effect in August, restores the promise of a full, four-year college education, allowing up to 2 million warriors of the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts to be part of a new American economic recovery, just like after World War II. And we have extended those crucial college benefits to all children of fallen service members since 9-11-01. Recognizing that veterans coming home are facing double digit unemployment, this Congress has enacted incentives for businesses to hire unemployed veterans. As part of the Recovery Act, Congress provided nearly 2 million disabled veterans a $250 payment to help make ends meet. We promise to provide the benefits they have earned and support military families. Many of our troops have served multiple tours of duty, with great strain on their families and substantial cost to their financial futures. In response, Congress provided special $500 payments for every month the 185,000 service members and veterans were forced to serve under stop-loss orders since 2001. Congress also has taken steps to reduce the backlog and wait for veterans trying to access their earned benefits. This year, we increased military pay 3.4 percent and expanded TRICARE health benefits. We are building more military child care centers and better barracks and military family housing. With over a hundred thousand of service members deployed in Iraq and Afghanistan today, the recognition of the sacrifice that military families make every day has never been more important. For wounded veterans, Congress just enacted landmark legislation to provide help to family members and other caregivers of disabled, ill or injured veterans, such as training, counseling, and respite care, and to eliminate copayments for catastrophically disabled veterans. Congress also provided family leave benefits for families of our wounded warriors.Further, President Obama has proposed, and the House is about to pass, legislation taking a significant step toward ending the Disabled Veterans Tax for all medically retired service members. This tax unjustly forces disabled military retirees to give up one dollar of their pension for every dollar of disability pay. These veterans were so severely injured during their service that they had to retire and deserve full retirement and disability benefits. We promise to meet their needs for high-quality health care. With the strong support of veterans’ organizations, this Congress has made an unprecedented commitment to veterans’ health care. The veterans’ budget, hailed as a “cause for celebration,” provides the largest funding increase for health care and other services ever requested by a President – even more than veterans’ organizations requested.Through FY 2010, we have increased the investment in veterans’ health care and services by 60 percent since January 2007 -- including the largest single increase in the 78-year history of the VA. This funding has strengthened health care for more than 5 million veterans, resulting in 17,000 new doctors and nurses, and greater access for veterans in rural areas. It has been critical for the 382,000 veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan in need of care this year -- with expanded mental health screening and treatment -- to treat the signature injuries of the war, PTSD and Traumatic Brain Injury. Working with the President, Congress ended the Bush Administration’s ban on enrolling modest-income veterans for VA health care. Congress enacted a law guaranteeing timely and predictable funding for veterans’ health care, a key priority of many veterans’ groups and provided advance appropriations of $48 billion for veterans’ medical care for 2011.For the 1.8 million women who have bravely served, Congress just enacted legislation expanding and improving VA health care services for women veterans, providing care of newborn children of women veterans for the first time in history, and enhancing treatment for PTSD and sexual trauma. These steps and many others were taken to bring a new direction after failures in administration and continuity of care were highlighted by the scandal at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. We promise to ensure our troops and their families have the resources they need. The defense authorization bill of 2010 boosted our force strength and bolsters our readiness so we can defend our national interests anywhere around the globe -- providing the best training and equipment for the men and women serving in our Armed Forces. The supplemental war funding bill Congress passed last summer provides our troops in harm’s way with everything they need, including much needed Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. We promise to leave no soldier or veteran behind. Politics and partisanship should never be a factor in our support for American veterans or troops. On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, let it be our pledge that when they return home, we leave no veteran behind. This day and every day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families and our veterans. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON LEADS EFFORT TO SECURE $74.8 MILLION IN TRANSPORTATION FUNDING FOR TEXASWashington, DC (Friday, May 28, 2010) The House passed legislation today (H.R. 4213) that ends a dispute over current year federal highway funding to states. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson led the effort of her colleagues on the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee to reverse an inequitable distribution of these funds. H.R. 4213, the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act of 2010, includes a provision to redistribute funding from two highway accounts in an equitable way using established transportation allocation formulas – this will result in Texas receiving an additional $74.8 million in transportation funding this year.“I am extremely pleased with passage of today’s fix in highway funding,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The House has recognized the inequity included by the Senate in previous legislation. I hope that the Senate will honor the pledge made by their Majority Leader and pass this legislation as soon as possible.”Passage of highway provisions in the HIRE Act earlier this year included a distribution of highway funds that would have resulted in four states receiving 58 percent of the funding from two highway accounts. Congresswoman Johnson voted against the HIRE Act and has since led a coalition of House Members in urging the House Leadership to remedy this funding inequity.In his prepared statement supporting passage of the highway funding fix, Chairman Oberstar thanked Congresswoman Johnson for her “instrumental work in spearheading efforts to marshal support for enactment of the highway formula provisions included in H.R. 4213.” In response to the House’s action today, Texas Transportation Commissioner Dierdre Delisi said, "I'd like to thank the Congresswoman for relentlessly protecting Texas' transportation interests in this legislation. We constantly struggle to get our fair share returned from Washington because basic funding fairness can easily get lost if you're not vigilant at all times." ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.28.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF LEGISLATION ALLOWING FOR ADDITIONAL INVESTMENTS IN WATER INFRASTRUCTUREWashington, DC (Friday, May 28, 2010) A new piece of legislation, H.R. 4213, encourages private investment through the use of tax exempt bonds for public purpose water infrastructure projects. Specifically, the bill exempts Private Activity Bonds (PABs) for water and wastewater facilities from federally-mandated state volume caps. PABs are a form of tax-exempt financing that allows a government entity to meet a public need. Other infrastructure projects, such as airports, intercity high-speed rail, and solid waste disposal sites, are already exempt from these bond caps.“It is critical that we do everything possible to strengthen our nation’s water infrastructure,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud to encourage this type of private investment – it will enhance our water infrastructure, create local jobs, and encourage private capital investment in our communities.” Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted for the passage of H.R. 4213 that was passed by the House of Representatives and sent to the Senate for consideration.It is anticipated that removing state volume caps on PABs for water and wastewater facilities will also reduce the cost of water projects, increase the number of water projects that communities initiate, improve our nation’s water infrastructure, and encourage public-private partnership ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.19.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON SPEAKS OUT ON GULF OIL SPILLWashington, DC (Wednesday, May 19, 2010) Today, Congresswoman Johnson, Chairwoman of the subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment, shows concern for the people living on the Gulf Coast. “I shudder to even entertain the idea that companies have become so greed-oriented that people and the environment simply do not matter,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “Tell me this isn’t so. Convince me this isn’t so.” Additional information on today’s hearing including a list of witnesses and their testimony can be found at https://transportation.house.gov/hearings/T.aspx?TID=14695&NewsID=1193. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.17.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON LAUNCHES NEW CABLE SHOW “Congressional 30th District gets another informational source”Dallas, TX (Monday, May 17, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s cable show has a new look and a new name. The Washington Report is a weekly cable show created to educate and inform the Congressional 30th District on current issues that directly affect their communities. The show’s guests range from political leaders to community activists and premiers in May of 2010 on Dallas City News Network (DCNN) Channel 16. Air dates and times:Monday, May 17th – 7 pmTuesday, May 18th – 11amWednesday, May 19th – 8amThursday, May 20th – 9pmFriday, May 20th – 8:30amSaturday, May 21st – 9:30am ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.14.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON APPLAUDS$56 MILLON FOR NEEDED IMPROVEMENTS FOR DALLAS LOVE FIELDWashington, DC (Friday, May 14, 2010) Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced a Letter of Intent (LOI) agreed to between the Federal Aviation Administration and Dallas Love Field that will provide the airport with $56.3 million for needed improvements. Projects that are to be completed with the LOI funds include the construction of a new aircraft apron, a hydrant fuel distribution system and associated improvements that are components of the Love Field Modernization Program. The new apron will replace existing pavement and its configuration will provide the necessary capacity to accommodate the planned new terminal building. “I am pleased that this Letter of Intent has been executed,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “These funds will bring needed safety improvements, efficiencies and modernization to Love Field, and, thereby enhance airport for both passengers and those who work there.”The $56.3 million will be distributed in varied increments over a seven year span. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.13.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON HOLDS ANNUAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SUMMITBalch Springs, TX (Thursday, May 13, 2010) Today Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held her annual Economic Development Summit for local municipalities. More than 50 people attended the summit that took place at the Civic Center in Balch Springs, TX. Various speakers presented information on a range of topics focused on growing economic opportunities for local governments. Information on federal funding opportunities, how federal funds are distributed on the county and municipal level, and how local governments can use things such as Tax Increment Reinvestment Zones or Public Improvement districts to spur growth were just some of the topics covered. “It is important that governments on all levels work together towards providing optimum opportunities for its communities,” said Congresswoman Johnson. For more information on economic opportunities for local governments, please call the 30th Congressional District office of Texas at 214-922-8885. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.12.2010	HOUSE PASSES CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S RESOLUTION TO RECOGNIZE NURSESWashington, DC (Wednesday, May 12, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s resolution to recognize National Nurse Week, which will be celebrated annually May 6th through May 12th, passed by the House of Representatives by voice vote today. “Every day, nurses make a commitment to providing quality patient care, growing and adapting to the new challenges that our changing health care system requires,” says Congresswoman Johnson. “I began my career as a nurse, where I provided hands-on care for 15 years as a psychiatric nurse at the Veterans Administration Hospital.” Nurses are a key component of our nation’s health care system, and will become even more vital with the full implementation of health care reform. “As important as the nursing industry is,” says Congresswoman Johnson, “we still face a nursing shortage.” Although enrollment rose in 2009 for entry-level B.A. programs, the annual increase in student capacity in four year nursing programs has declined sharply since 2003. The newly approved resolution acknowledges the importance of higher education in nursing, including baccalaureate and graduate programs. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.06.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON RECOGNIZES TALENTED TEXAS YOUTHDallas, TX (Thursday, May 06, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson hosts her annual art competition and exhibit in Dallas, TX to recognize the importance of the arts in schools. The competition is open to all the 30th Congressional District high school students. Educators, students and their families will gather together to acknowledge the 45 students from the 7 participating schools who are competing for prizes. The top three winners will receive savings bonds from American National Bank of Texas. The grand prize winner will win two round trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to visit Washington, DC to attend a ceremony with other art competition winners from across the country. The grand prize winner’s art will also hang in a special area of the Capitol for one year. WHAT: Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s Congressional Art CompetitionWHEN: Friday, May 7, 2010 at 6:30 p.m.WHERE: The Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center 2301 Flora Street Dallas, TX 75201The students’ artwork will be on exhibit at the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center from May 6th through May 16th with no charge to the public. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.05.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON CELEBRATES CINCO DE MAYO, HISPANIC CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR NATIONWashington, DC (Wednesday, May 5, 2010) Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined millions of Americans in celebrating Cinco de Mayo. This day marks the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862. “Today, we celebrate the importance of Hispanics in this country, specifically the contributions Mexican Americans have made and continue to make and how their achievements strengthen our nation,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This date is of special significance because it reminds us that all peoples -- regardless of their race or color -- need freedom, liberty and self-determination and that all cultures are worthy of respect. For Mexico, Cinco de Mayo has become a symbol of unity and patriotism in its history. In the United States, it is also a celebration of the rich cultural heritage and contributions of Mexican Americans."Latinos are the fastest-growing minority group in the United States with 47 million Hispanics in the United States -- 63 percent of which are of Mexican descent. Hispanics have the largest minority-owned business community, and Latino workers will continue to drive the growth of the labor force. Democrats recognize this entrepreneurial energy as vital to the Latino community and the American economy. Today, there are 29 Hispanic Members in the United States Congress, including 25 Democrats. Many of them are Mexican-Americans, representing constituencies from all around the country. After the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, a great number of Hispanic families, like other American families, are struggling to make ends meet. So creating jobs has been the top priority of this Congress. Working with President Obama, the 111th Congress enacted a sweeping, historic Recovery Act to jumpstart the economy, responsible for up to 2.8 million jobs, cutting the taxes of 98 percent of working families – including millions of Hispanic families, and makes key investments in health care, energy and education in order to transform our economy for the 21st century. The Recovery Act and other job-creating efforts have focused on strengthening small businesses -- with billions of dollars in tax relief for small businesses to hire and expand and greater access to SBA-backed loans -- provisions that will help 1.6 million Hispanic-owned small businesses across the country. To make college affordable for Latino students, the Democratic-led Congress has enacted the Student and Fiscal Responsibility Act to increase the maximum Pell Grant to $5,550 this year and make student loan repayments more affordable. This will strengthen Hispanic-serving Institutions so that students can stay in school, graduate and succeed in our global economy, while ending wasteful subsidies to banks through the federal guaranteed student loan programs.Change in Washington has also come with new U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor. Congress has reached out to ensure a Census that counts all of us, and is working toward moving forward on comprehensive immigration reform.“The 111th Congress is committed to advancing a New Direction that ensures Latinos realize the American dream,” Congresswoman Johnson added. “Hispanics share with other Americans the common goals of freedom, opportunity, and a chance to build a better life. Today, we say thank you to the Hispanic community for making our economy stronger and our culture more vibrant.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.05.2010	PRESIDENT SIGNS BILL TO STRENGTHEN VETERANS’ HEALTH SERVICESWashington, DC – May 5, 2010, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson commended the President for signing the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act into law. The new law ensures that veterans and their families get the care and support they need and deserve after they put their lives on the line defending our country. “This Congress made a promise to leave no veteran behind, and every day we continue to fulfill that promise,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It is our duty to serve the brave men and women in uniform that serve our country.”The new law builds on a record of accomplishments for veterans and troops over the last three years under the Democratic-led Congress – including the new G.I. Bill to provide returning troops with the promise of a college education; historic investments in veterans’ health care and providing that funding one year in advance to prevent political or legislative delays; expanding economic opportunities for returning soldiers and improving care for those with PTSD.To address the unique needs of the growing number of returning women soldiers, the law improves health services for almost 2 million female veterans. The VA will be able to provide care for female veterans’ newborns for the first time in history. It also supports family members and caregivers who look after our injured veterans to bring them the relief they deserve. This law also improves access to care for veterans in rural areas, ensures that the VA can better treat veterans suffering from mental health issues, and provides the VA with resources to learn more about the tragically high suicide rate among veterans. “Our soldiers serve with honor and when they come home, they deserve the best services we can offer,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “That’s why we’ve made historic investments to improve veterans’ health care, raised our troops’ salaries and helped smooth their transition back from the battlefield. This bill will ensure that we can address the changing medical needs of our veterans and that all our veterans have full access to quality health care.”In another move to improve health benefits for veterans, the VA today updated its online application process, making it easier for veterans to apply for these benefits. Veterans may complete or download the 10-10EZ form at the VA health eligibility website at https://www.1010ez.med.va.gov/sec/vha/1010ez/, or visit the VA health eligibility website at www.va.gov/healtheligibility. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.30.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON’S RESOLUTION HONORING WORKERS MEMORIAL DAY PASSESWashington, DC (Friday, April 30, 2010) – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 375, a resolution written by Congresswoman Johnson that supported the goals and ideals of Workers' Memorial Day in order to honor and remember the workers who have been killed or injured in the workplace. The resolution, which passed unanimously, revealed that at least 2.3 million people around the globe die each year from work-related causes. In the United States in 2008 there were 5,214 workers killed on the job, 50 thousand died of occupational diseases and 4.6 million were injured at work.Congresswoman Johnson made the following statement on the House floor: "On Wednesday of this week, millions of people world-wide recognized Workers Memorial Day. Each year in this country thousands of workers are killed due to workplace related injuries, and tens – of – thousands more die of occupational illnesses. It is staggering to think that approximately 14 workers are killed daily due to injuries on the job. World-wide, more than 2 million workers die of occupational illness and injuries annually. That means more people are killed on the job each year than in wars. The bottom line is that everyone deserves a safe and healthy workplace. Many of us may take this basic right for granted, but for millions of Americans the threat of being permanently disabled or even killed on the job is very real. Workers Memorial Day not only recognizes and honors those who have been killed or injured on the job. It also reminds us of the overwhelming need to improve health and safety standards in our Nation’s workplaces. It has been 40 years since the creation of OSHA, and over this time worker health and safety standards have vastly improved. However, there is still work to be done, as evidence by several recent workplace disasters. The month of April has been particularly devastating for work place deaths in the United States. On April 2nd, seven workers were killed by a devastating fire at the Tesero Refinery in Washington. Just last week, a large explosion and fire on a Deepwater Horizon drilling rig 50 miles off the coast of Louisiana, injured 17 workers and 11 workers remain missing. On April 5th, we saw the worst mining disaster in nearly four decades. An explosion at the Upper Big Branch coal mine in West Virginia left 29 miners dead and many others injured. Additionally, a miner was killed this past week at the Pocahontas Mine in West Virginia. Both of these mines had a pattern of repeat safety violations. They were not dedicated to the safety of their employees. Rather they were dedicated to staying open by doing the bare minimum to meet regulations. Chairman Miller, Congresswoman Woolsey and Congressman Rahall have been diligent in working to bring to light repeat violators, and hold those who continue to operate unsafe mines accountable. I would like to express my deepest sympathy to the families and loved ones of those who were killed or injured in these tragic events, as well as, all of those workers who were injured or killed world-wide. These are our mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, sons and daughters. They left home for work in the morning like we all do, only to never return. We hear again and again that those who died knew the risk of what they were doing. A risk many felt was necessary to provide for their families. Yes, accidents do happen. But often accidents are preventable, and we must do all that we can to prevent injury and death on the job. I would like to thank House Leadership and Chairman Miller for their support in bringing this resolution to the floor today. I would also like to thank Congressman Bruce Braley and Congresswoman Linda Sanchez, in their assistance in bringing this resolution forward. I urge my colleagues support in recognizing Workers Memorial Day. “ ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.29.2010	CONGRESSWOMAN JOHNSON HELPS CRAFT A MAJOR SCIENCE BILL TO RAISE STANDARDS, IMPROVE TEACHING AND MOTIVATE MORE STUDENTS TO PURSURE CAREERS IN SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGYWashington, DC (Thursday, April 29, 2010) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today after the House Science and Technology Committee voted last night to update and reauthorize the America COMPETES Act that seeks to boost America’s competitiveness by strengthening the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields. “It has been an uphill battle in getting equality for women when it comes to reaching the higher echelons of scientific achievement,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am pleased to see this important legislation included as a part of America COMPETES.”Based on the National Academies’ recommendations from the report “Beyond Bias and Barriers”, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act, first in the 110th Congress and now in the 111th Congress. Congresswoman Johnson’s amendment creates a grant program to increase awareness of gender bias among university research faculty, as well as giving extended research grant support and interim technical support for researchers. The amendment also provides better data and transparency on research grants and faculty hiring and tenure practices.To ensure diversity within Energy Innovation Hubs at the Department of Energy, Congresswoman Johnson’s second amendment to COMPETES called for priority consideration for applications that include 1890 Land Grant Institutions, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Predominantly Black Institutions and Tribal Colleges. “These universities maintain unique relationships with communities of color,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We should implement their ability to educate these communities on the opportunities in green industries and the techniques needed to succeed in to a larger energy strategy. This research will ultimately yield new technologies, which will create new jobs for American families. This is America COMPETES, and it must include all Americans.” The Competes Act is expected to come to the House Floor for a vote before the Memorial Day District Work Period. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.02.2010	Dallas, Texas - Building on the theme and momentum for April's National Financial Literacy Month, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced 65 free webinars being offered by the Consumer Credit Counseling Service (CCCS) of Greater Dallas - a nonprofit provider of credit and housing counseling. The webinars will focus on a number of personal finance topics including information on recession-proofing your finances, protecting investments during a recession, understanding the credit card act, credit scores, basic money management, budgeting and savings goals, foreclosure prevention, identity theft, as well as several other subjects. CCCS of Greater Dallas is also offering free tax preparation through its partnership with the United Way until April 15, 2010.“A basic understanding of personal finance is crucial in today’s economy,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “When money is tight, as it is for many during a recession, it is particularly important to understand how to make a budget, manage credit, save for retirement and avoid predatory loans. I believe that a financially-literate public is a key component to a strong and robust economy. A national culture of financial responsibility will significantly help American families in this struggling economy.”For more information and for a full schedule of webinars and other financial education classes contact Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas at (214) 638-2227 or visit www.cccs.net/webinars. For more information on free tax preparation visit VITA partnership.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.02.2010	Washington, DC - Today the Department of Education announced nearly $338 million in School Improvement Grants available for the State of Texas to turn around its persistently lowest achieving schools. The School Improvement Grant (SIG) program is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009. Congresswoman Johnson is the only North Texas Member of Congress to have voted for ARRA.“These funds will be aimed at our schools that are in need of major transformation in order to become academically successful,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Many of these are schools that are graduating 40 percent or less of their students. Each day thousands of students are dropping out of high school, resulting in millions of individuals who fail to achieve basic education. We are not only failing these students, but this nation and our ability to compete globally.”Under the SIG program, the State of Texas can distribute funds to schools identified as persistently lowest achieving, many of which are considered drop out factories. These schools will be asked to implement drastic changes to restructure the school, and utilize one of four turnaround models identified by the Department of Education. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Turtle Creek, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.30.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Johnson today congratulated National Math and Science Initiative, Inc. for receiving $2,252,355 for a new five-year Teacher Quality Partnership grant aimed at raising student achievement by improving instruction in our schools. This grant, which was one of only 12 funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will be used to reform traditional university teacher preparation programs as well as create teacher residency programs for professionals from other fields entering the teaching profession. Congresswoman Johnson is the only member of Congress in North Texas region to have voted in favor of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.The partnerships announced today are comprised of high-need school districts and their high-need schools in collaboration with an institution of higher education and its schools with emphasis of education, arts, and sciences. Of the 12 grants announced today, National Math and Science Initiative, Inc. will focus on improving their teacher residency programs, which follow the medical model in which residents are placed in schools with comprehensive induction and extensive support.“Ensuring our students excel in the field of math and science is essential to America’s ability to compete globally,” Congresswoman Johnson said, “The National Math and Science Initiative is an extraordinary program, and I am so pleased they are receiving this grant. This is beyond an educational grant. It is a job creation grant. We are investing in our future mathematicians and scientists who will help lead this country in the years ahead.”The National Math and Science Initiative, Inc. (NMSI) which is based in Dallas, Texas, was formed following a report issued in 2005 by the National Academies entitled "Rising Above the Gathering Storm." The title aptly reflects the urgency of the problem and the need for a solution. Funding will be used for NMSI’s expansion of the UTeach program. Originated at The University of Texas at Austin in 1997, the UTeach program enables students majoring in math, science, or computer science to receive full teaching certification without adding time or cost to their degrees. About 45 percent of the UTeach graduates teach in high-need schools. The national replication process is directed by NMSI in conjunction with the UTeach Institute.“This grant will help create a new generation of math and science teachers in the United States,” said Tom Luce, CEO of NMSI. “Our nation needs an additional 280,000 math and science teachers by 2015, and the UTeach program is playing a key role in providing those teachers.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.30.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson joined President Obama at today’s bill signing ceremony at Northern Virginia Community College for the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. This bill includes numerous reforms for the federal student aid system. “By making all federal student loans direct loans, $68 billion will be saved and invested back into making college more affordable and accessible for students,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Everyone who wants to attend college and has the aptitude to do so should have the opportunity to pursue higher education. We are making a historic investment including increasing Pell Grant scholarships and indexing them to the Consumer Price Index. This means an additional $2.5 billion in Pell Grant scholarships for Texans and $75 million for students in the 30th Congressional District of Texas – all paid for by the savings from reforming direct student loans. I believe this will go a long way towards making attending and graduating college a reality for all students.”In addition to the student loan portion of the Reconciliation bill are modified provisions to the health care reform package that will help lower prescription drug costs by closing the “donut hole” and make health care more affordable for the middle class.More information about the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 can be found at https://edlabor.house.gov/blog/2009/07/student-aid-and-fiscal-respons.shtml and https://edlabor.house.gov/blog/2010/03/affordable-health-care-for-ame.shtml.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.25.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Johnson voted to pass key improvements to our historic health care reform law. The reconciliation bill, which now goes to the President for his signature, makes health care even more affordable for the middle class, lowers prescription drug costs for seniors by closing the “donut hole” over time, and reduces the deficit even more than the original bill. The package of improvements, which passed the House and Senate today, stripped out special deals that favored one state over another. This bill also makes an historic investment in student aid to help American families and students pay for college.“I supported the reconciliation bill because these improvements will finish the job of reforming health care in America and provide immediate benefits to Americans in my district and across the country,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “Health care will become more affordable for middle class families, and seniors will get better deal on prescription drugs. I am pleased to say this saves taxpayers more money in what is the largest deficit reduction measure in nearly two decades.”The reconciliation bill includes the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) — the single largest investment in college aid in history. It will change the way the student loan system functions by originating all new loans through the government’s Direct Loan program, but will maintain competition among private lenders and non-profits to provide top-notch customer service for student borrowers and save American jobs. By reforming the federal student loan system, taxpayers will save $61 billion over 10 years while expanding access to an affordable college education to more American students and building a world-class community college system.“Students and families can now borrow more affordably and apply for larger Pell Grants,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “This law will strengthen our community colleges and minority-serving institutions, and help ensure that we have the most highly skilled, cutting-edge and effective workforce in the world.”The reconciliation bill now goes to President Obama for his signature, to improve upon the historic reforms he signed Tuesday.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.24.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for and applauded passage of the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Tax Act (H.R. 4849), which passed by a vote of 246 to178.In addition to several other provisions, H.R. 4849 encourages private investment through the use of tax exempt bonds for public purpose water infrastructure projects. Specifically, the bill exempts Private Activity Bonds (PABs) for water and wastewater facilities from federally-mandated state volume caps. PABs are a form of tax-exempt financing that allows a government entity to meet a public need. Other infrastructure projects, such as airports, intercity high-speed rail, and solid waste disposal sites are already exempt from these bond caps.“It is critical that we do everything possible to strengthen our nation’s water infrastructure,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I am proud to support this bill – it will enhance our water infrastructure, create local jobs, and encourage private capital investment in our communities.”It is anticipated that removing state volume caps on PABs for water and wastewater facilities will also reduce the cost of water projects; increase the number of water projects that communities initiate; improve our nation’s water infrastructure; and, encourage public-private partnerships.H.R. 4849 now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.23.2010	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson encouraged all residents in the 30th District to take advantage of numerous tax cuts in the Recovery Act. With only half of taxpayers having filed thus far, tax refunds are already up nearly 10% from last year – thanks to a broad array of tax cuts in the Recovery Act.“Most people don’t realize that tax cuts are the biggest individual piece of the Recovery Act,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “President Obama and Congress gave 95% of working Americans one of the largest tax cuts in history through the Recovery Act; and as you file your 2009 income taxes, you may qualify for a series of other generous tax cuts – for example, you could save money for attending college, making energy-saving home improvements, purchasing a home for the first time, or buying a new car. I encourage all the residents of the 30th Congressional District to take advantage of these and other tax cuts as they file their 2009 taxes over the coming weeks.”Taxpayers in 30th Congressional District and across the country can claim a variety of benefits on their 2009 tax returns, including:The Making Work Pay tax credit – Ninety-five percent of working families are already receiving the Recovery Act’s Making Work Pay tax credit of $400 for an individual or $800 for married couples filing jointly in their 2009 paychecks – and will continue to see these benefits in 2010. In the 30th District, 238,000 families are benefiting from the Making Work Pay tax credit. Tax credits for college expenses – Families and students are eligible for up to $2,500 in tax savings under the American Opportunity Credit as well as enhanced benefits under 529 college savings plans, which help families and students pay for college expenses. The First Time Homebuyers tax credit – First time homebuyers can get a credit of up to $8,000 for homes purchased by April 30, 2010 under the First Time Homebuyer tax credit. In Texas, 161,911 households have already taken advantage of the First Time Homebuyers tax credit. Tax credits for energy efficient renovations – Taxpayers are eligible for up to $1,500 in tax credits for making energy-efficient improvements to their homes, such as adding insulation and installing energy efficient windows. The vehicle sales tax deduction – Taxpayers can deduct the state and local sales taxes they paid for new vehicles purchased from Feb. 17, 2009 through Dec. 31, 2009 under the vehicle sales tax deduction. Expanded family tax credits – Moderate income families with children may be eligible for an increase in the Earned Income Tax Credit and the additional Child Tax Credit. Tax-free unemployment benefits – Thanks to the Recovery Act, individuals who received unemployment insurance in 2009 do not have to pay taxes on the first $2,400 of such earnings.To find out what tax cuts you may qualify for, check the White House online tax calculator by clicking https://www.whitehouse.gov/recovery/tax-saving-tool.“When President Obama took office, our economy was in freefall, losing nearly 800,000 jobs a month, cutting into Americans’ retirement savings and freezing lending to small businesses,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “We passed the Recovery Act and were able to save and create more than two million jobs in the first year of a two-year effort. We still have a long way to go to put more Americans back to work, but we are moving in the right direction. And in the meantime, these tax cuts will ease the burden on American families who are struggling to make ends meet.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.23.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today attended the signing ceremony for the health care reform bill at the White House. Congresswoman Johnson, the first registered nurse elected to the House of Representatives, was invited by President Barack Obama in recognition for her strong support for the reform package and her dedication to the health and well being of all Americans.“This vote on health care is one of the most significant pieces of legislation Congress has dealt with during my tenure in the House of Representatives,” said Congresswoman Johnson, a Senior Member in the House of Representatives and non-practicing registered nurse. “I congratulate President Obama on this historic legislation and look forward to the immediate and future impact this legislation will have for millions of Americans. When we work together, we can help working families in Texas and across America.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.22.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson welcomed today’s international focus on clean water and water resources as part of World Water Day. This year’s theme as chosen by the United Nations is “Clean Water for a Healthy World.”“Water is life,” said Congresswoman Johnson, “As Chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, I have and will continue to work toward having at least an adequate supply of clean, potable water for not only those in United States, but for people worldwide.”Currently, an estimated 1.1 billion, or two out of 10 people rely on unsafe drinking-water sources. Additional statistics from the United Nations include: Waterborne diseases cause the death of more than 1.5 million children each year. An estimated minimum of 2.5 billion people world-wide live without adequate sanitation. An estimated 6.4 billion people will be living in urban areas by 2050, up from 3.4 billion today, posing a further challenge to water quality and infrastructure. In some regions more than 50 percent of native freshwater fish species are at risk of extinction, and nearly one-third of the world’s amphibians are at risk of extinction. Naturally occurring arsenic pollution in groundwater now affects nearly 140 million people in 70 countries on all continents. 70 percent of untreated industrial wastes in developing countries are disposed into water where they contaminate existing water supplies.More information on World Water Day and water resource issues, can be found at: www.unwater.org/worldwaterday/###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.21.2010	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Senate Amendments to H.R. 3590 – the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and H.R. 4872 – the Reconciliation Act of 2010, which passed the House today by a vote of 219 to 212.“For more than 60 years, we have fought to provide access to affordable health care for all Americans, and today the House has secured a historic vote to do so. The legislation we passed today will provide protections for those who have insurance, and a guarantee of quality, affordable health care for those who currently lack coverage.”“In the 30th District of Texas, this bill will improve employer-based coverage for 264,000 residents and provide coverage for 200,500 uninsured residents. It will improve Medicare for 71,000 beneficiaries including closing the prescription drug donut hole for seniors. It will provide immediate support for people throughout the 30th District by prohibiting common insurance company practices of placing lifetime caps on coverage and of rescinding policies from people who get sick.”“Insurance companies have held the public hostage for many years, controlling and rationing care. It is time to give citizens the right to control their own health care. I am proud to cast a vote in favor of this historic legislation.”The American people will see the benefits of this legislation as soon as the President signs it into law and in the months following.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.21.2010	Congresswoman Johnson Announces Benefits for Texas’s 30th Congressional DistrictWashington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Johnson voted for the single largest investment in college aid in history. The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will expand access to an affordable college education to more American students and build a world-class community college system – all at no cost to the taxpayers.“This bill is a crucial step toward rebuilding the American economy and making sure young people have the ability to attend college or get career training while saving the taxpayers money,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “It will help us make sure that our workforce remains the most highly skilled, cutting-edge and effective in the world.”With the largest-ever investment in higher education, this bill will significantly increase government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. In Texas’s 30th District, Pell Grants will increase by $5,975 from $5550 today. It will invest $74,593,356 in 30th Congressional District schools to bolster college access and raise graduation rates. It includes $307,396,990 for historically black universities and minority-serving institutions, and invests $2 billion in a competitive grant program for community colleges to develop and improve career training programs.SAFRA will reform the system of federal student loans to save the taxpayers $61 billion over 10 years and will direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce the deficit. It will change the way the student loan system functions by originating all new loans through the government’s Direct Loan program, but will maintain competition among private lenders and non-profits to provide top-notch customer service for student borrowers and save jobs. These reforms will make college loans more reliable for students and families, and ensure that loans operate in the best interests of borrowers by reducing many of the potential conflicts of interest that exist in the current loan system. “Tuition costs at both public and private colleges are on the rise even as families struggle through a difficult economy,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “I’m thrilled that I was part of this legislative effort to expand higher education opportunity with our sweeping health insurance reform bill.” ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.19.2010	Washington, DC (Friday, March 19, 2010) – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson paid tribute to the extraordinary number of African Americans who have broken significant barriers to enhance our country through scientific innovation, by authoring House Resolution 1133.The resolution passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 399 to 0. While addressing the House, Congresswoman Johnson spoke about the importance of recognizing African-American scientists for their service and contributions throughout the history of our nation.“We honor African-Americans who have overcome significant obstacles to enhance innovation and competitiveness in the field of science in the United States. We also, encourage investment in programs which lessen the achievement gap of African-Americans as well as other minority and disadvantaged groups in the sciences and ultimately strengthen competitiveness in the United States,” Congresswoman Johnson said.Congresswoman Johnson, the third ranking Senior Democrat of the House Science Committee and a co-chair of Historically Black Colleges and Universities Caucus, pointed out that the United States has a vast untapped potential as African-Americans and other minorities remain disproportionately underrepresented in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines. Many of these students suffer from inadequate schools, residential segregation, and gender and racial-bias in the classroom.This year, as we seek to increase American competitiveness in STEM fields, it is important for us to honor those who have broken down barriers while achieving major scientific breakthroughs. “Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, “by the time we leave for work, Americans have depended on the inventions from the minds of Blacks,” Congresswoman Johnson stated.African-American inventors, engineers, and scientists have made great contributions to the fields of science and technology. As this resolution points out, African-American innovators are responsible for everyday technologies such as: the automatic gear shift; the automated traffic signal; the pacemaker; the portable air conditioner; and, the clothes dryer. In addition, African-American doctors were responsible for the first open heart surgery and for inventing the technologies and techniques that enable the storing of human blood.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.19.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that she will be holding a telephone town hall meeting regarding health care reform on Tuesday, March 23, 2010 at 7:30 p.m. central standard time. Congresswoman Johnson will be listening and commenting on her constituents questions regarding the health care reform bill pending in the U.S. House.The House and Senate have both passed bills that will lower costs, protect people who have insurance from being denied because of pre-existing conditions, and provide coverage for the millions who don’t. The next step is to get these basic reforms signed into law and build on that progress.The telephone townhall will begin at 7:30 p.m. and constitutuents will be given a chance to ask questions about pending legislation before Congress and express their opinions on health care reform. Who: Congresswoman Eddie Bernice JohnsonWhat: Telephone Town Hall Meeting on Health Care ReformWhen: Tuesday, March 23, 2010, 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. (CDT)Number to Call: 1-877-229-8493, Pin 12854###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.17.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced specific benefits that health insurance reform will bring to constituents of the 30th District of Texas. The plan will put Americans and small businesses back in charge of their health care choices. It will make coverage more affordable for everyone and hold insurance companies accountable, stopping the worst practices such as the denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, the dropping of coverage when a person becomes sick, or arbitrarily hiking up a person’s premiums.“I don’t believe your health care decisions should be made by the government or the insurance companies – they should be made by you and your family,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “And that’s exactly what this bill does – it puts you back in charge. Thousands of my constituents will see the benefits of this bill.”Here are a portion of the benefits that health care reform will bring to residents of Texas and the 30th Congressional District:• 264,000 Texans will see improvements in their current health care coverage.• 31,100 who can’t buy health insurance now because of a pre-existing condition will be able to obtain coverage.• Up to 195,000 Texans will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable.• Up to 15,500 small businesses will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable for their employees.• 71,000 Medicare beneficiaries will see better care and will pay less for prescription drugs because the Medicare Part D donut hole will be closed.• 62,000 young North Texans will be able to stay on their parents’ health insurance policy until their 26th birthday.• 200,500 uninsured 30th District residents will have access to health care coverage.• 700 families won’t have to file for bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs.• 11 community health centers will receive millions of dollars in new funding to see thousands of new patients. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is Chairwoman of the House Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee and the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation. She is a Senior Democratic Whip in the House Leadership Structure and a Member of Science and Technology Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District, which includes Downtown Dallas; Northeast Dallas, East Oak Cliff, Pleasant Grove, Balch Springs, DeSoto, Lancaster, Hutchins, and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Glen Heights, Wilmer and Ovilla.
03.11.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement about the Congressional Black Caucus meeting with President Obama at the White House today:“The Congressional Black Caucus held an extremely productive meeting with President Obama at the White House today, and I was pleased to participate. Our discussion primarily concerned the economy, including the central role that small businesses will play in the economic recovery and the importance of continuing to focus on job growth nationwide.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.03.2010	Washington, DC – The House of Representatives today passed H. Res. 1082, a resolution Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced in support of the fourth annual America Saves Week. The Consumer Federation of America established America Saves, an annual nationwide campaign to encourage financial literacy and personal savings, nine years ago, and the fourth annual America Saves Week was February 21 through February 28, 2010.“I believe that a financially-literate public is a key component to a strong and robust economy,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “A national culture of financial responsibility can help to support American families in this struggling economy.“We have already seen Americans increase their personal savings rates in response to the recession—personal savings as a percentage of disposable income rose from 1.2 percent in the first quarter of 2008 to 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “It is my hope that Americans of all ages and all walks of life will continue to increase their personal savings rate in the months and years to come.”In introducing H. Res. 1082, Congresswoman Johnson recognized Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones, who introduced legislation recognizing past America Saves Weeks prior to her death in 2008.“I want to acknowledge the vigorous efforts of the late Congresswoman Stephanie Tubbs Jones to improve the overall economic situation of all of those who reside in the United States,” Congresswoman Johnson said.For more information about America Saves, please visit https://www.americasaves.org/.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.26.2010	GOP objection stops extension bill, may force furloughsWashington, DC – The Senate’s failure to overcome the objections of a single Republican Senator means funding for federal highway, transit and highway safety programs will run out at midnight Sunday night, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today. The expiration may also force employee layoffs at the Department of Transportation, including the Federal Highway Administration, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.The current surface transportation authorization act, the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient, Transportation Equity Act—A Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU), was due to expire last September 30, but has been kept alive by a series of extensions while Congress considers a replacement authorization bill. The latest extension expires Sunday.“One Senator, with support from his Republican colleagues, has refused to allow this important extension bill to move out of the Senate and has prevented the House from acting, effectively shutting down a government agency,” said Congresswoman Johnson, a senior Member of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. “I am disappointed that one Senator’s efforts to prevent people in need from receiving unemployment benefits has had such broad ramifications.”Employees at the three DOT agencies face layoffs beginning Tuesday unless Congress acts quickly to restore the lost funding. A different bill pending in the House would extend SAFETEA-LU through the end of 2010. That bill may come up for a vote as early as Tuesday, and it is possible that the employees would not be furloughed if there is assurance that enactment of a funding bill is imminent.In the meantime, states may have to suspend work on some road and bridge projects while they wait for their reimbursement payments from the federal government.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.25.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson this morning gave remarks at the Seventh Annual NSF ITEST Summit, a two-day event focused this year on “STEM Career Development: Nurturing Interest, Persistence & STEM Self-Efficacy.” The Innovative Technology Experiences for Students and Teachers (ITEST) program is administered by the National Science Foundation (NSF), and it supports research and projects to prepare K-12 students to enter the science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields.In her speech, Congresswoman Johnson cautioned that the United States is no longer the worldwide leader in STEM education.“The rate of STEM degree production in the United States has been slowing,” she said. “In the meantime, other countries are getting the picture that the key to success in the 21st century is creating a robust STEM workforce. The U.S. is no longer losing its competitive edge. The statistics are clear: we have lost it.“Ultimately, a nation that graduates a high number of STEM professionals will be a nation that thrives in the 21st century,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “These fields are among the highest-paying and the most stable. Their rate of growth is increasing exponentially as our society grows increasingly technological and our world becomes more interconnected. The time to act is now.”Congresswoman Johnson also emphasized the importance of expanding STEM educational opportunities to female and minority students in her remarks.“The underrepresentation of women and minority groups in STEM fields is a severe impediment to the formation of an adequate American STEM workforce,” she said. “The increased education and participation of this segment of the workforce is essential to supplying the American economy with the STEM expertise the country needs to innovate and remain competitive.”Congresswoman Johnson helped to draft the America COMPETES Act, bipartisan legislation that created and expanded a wide range of science and education programs, and which President George W. Bush signed into law in 2007. In the 111th Congress, she has introduced the Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act, which directs each federal science agency to hold workshops on gender bias with members of grant review panels and mathematics, science and engineering chairs of institutions of higher education. It will also provide extended research grant support for federally-funded researchers who have care-giving responsibilities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.24.2010	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson co-sponsors bill to eliminate antitrust exemption for health insurance companiesWashington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, legislation that will eliminate the antitrust exemption for health insurance companies. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson co-sponsored the legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 406-19.“Repealing the antitrust exemption that health insurance companies have enjoyed for decades is a crucial step in providing Americans with affordable, accessible health care,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Americans deserve to have more choice and greater control over their health care coverage, and they deserve to benefit from the market forces that drive down prices, particularly now, when health care costs are rising much faster than inflation. I am extremely pleased that this common-sense legislation passed the House with bipartisan support, and I am proud to have supported it.”Congresswoman Johnson recently posted a piece about the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act on the Huffington Post, which is available here: https://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-eddie-bernice-johnson/eliminate-the-antitrust-e_b_474769.html###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.17.2010	Grants will fund Highway 161 and Dallas Streetcar systemWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation will award two transportation projects in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex a total of $43 million. The North Texas Tollway Authority (NTTA) will receive $20 million for the Texas State Highway 161 Project, and the North Central Texas Council of Governments will receive $23 million to expand the downtown Dallas Streetcar system.“Today, on the one year anniversary of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, I am pleased to announce that North Texas will receive $43 million in economic recovery transportation funding,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The North Texas Tollway Authority will use its grant to support a $400 million loan to improve State Highway 161, which will directly benefit not only the residents of Irving and Grand Prairie, but commuters throughout Dallas and Tarrant Counties.“Expansion of the Dallas Streetcar system in downtown Dallas will also directly benefit commuters,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “Innovative public transit projects like this one make our communities more livable, and I look forward to seeing the Streetcar system grow.”The grants are funded by the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Discretionary Grant Program, a part of the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA), landmark economic recovery legislation that President Obama signed into law February 17, 2009. TIGER grants fund innovative, multi-modal and multi-jurisdictional transportation projects that will bring economic and environmental benefits to metropolitan areas.Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for ARRA.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.12.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today welcomed NBA basketball players, coaches, and staff, as well as basketball fans from around the country, to the Greater Dallas Metroplex. The Metroplex will host the NBA All-Star Game on Sunday, February 14; events will be held at both the new Cowboys Stadium and the American Airlines Center, home of the Mavericks. Congresswoman Johnson introduced a resolution recognizing the NBA All-Star Game on February 2.“Sunday’s NBA All-Star Game at the brand new, state-of-the-art Cowboys Stadium is sure to be a memorable one,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It is a great honor for the Dallas-Fort Worth region to host the game, and my resolution recognizes the pride that North Texans feel in hosting the event.”The bi-partisan resolution has 50 co-sponsors, including Representatives Joe Barton, Michael Burgess, Kay Granger, Jeb Hensarling, Sam Johnson, Kenny Marchant and Pete Sessions.The full text of the resolution follows:Whereas the National Basketball Association (NBA) All-Star brings together the very best professional basketball players in the Nation for 48 minutes of intense competition and sterling athletic achievements;Whereas the annual All-Star Game is one of the highlights of the NBA season and a major sports event of the year;Whereas the game annually is played on the home court of one of the NBA member teams and is a sought-after event by the teams and the cities they represent;Whereas the Dallas Mavericks play their home games at American Airlines Center in Dallas, Texas, and are the host team for 2010 NBA All-Star Game, to be played on Sunday Afternoon, February 14, 2010;Whereas this is the 2010 NBA All-Star Game, an exhibition basketball game that will be played on February 14, 2010, at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas, home of the National Football League’s Dallas Cowboys;Whereas this is the first time the Greater Dallas Metroplex area has had the distinction of where All-Star events are split between two venues since 1989;Whereas this will be the first All-Star Game to be played in a football stadium since 1996, when San Antonio’s Alamodome hosted the event; andWhereas the weekend of the All-Star Game has been declared NBA All-Star Weekend in the Greater Metroplex region, in recognition of the area’s role in this year’s All-Star competition: Now, therefore, be it1 Resolved, That the House of Representatives—2 (1) recognizes the National Basketball Associa3 tion’s (NBA) All-Star Game in the Greater Dallas4 Metroplex, the 2010 All-Stars, and all those associ5 ated with the All-Star events; and6 (2) express its hope that the 59th annual All-7 Star Game will be the most exciting and successful8 in the history of the event.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.08.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the death of Congressman John Murtha:"Congressman John Murtha was a man who never forgot servicemembers, veterans, or their families. He had first-hand knowledge of the needs of the members of the armed forces who bravely serve our country, and he did whatever he could to address those needs. He was a frequent visitor to injured troops at Walter Reed Army Medical Center and the National Naval Medical Center. Congressman Murtha will be missed by all of his colleagues in Congress, and most certainly by me. Throughout his career, I held the deepest respect for him, and my heart goes out to his loved ones and to the people of Pennsylvania's 12th Congressional District."###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.04.2010	Cybersecurity Enhancement Act passes House 422-5Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today backed H.R. 4061, the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act of 2009, which passed the House by a vote of 422-5. The legislation will improve cybersecurity within both the public and private sectors by investing in programs to develop a skilled cybersecurity workforce and by promoting cybersecurity education for the general public. The legislation was developed from recommendations by the Administration’s Cyberspace Policy Review and four hearings on cybersecurity that the House Science and Technology Committee held in 2009. Congresswoman Johnson has been a member of the Science Committee since she first came to Congress in 1993.“The Cybersecurity Enhancement Act addresses threats to our nation’s growing public and private IT infrastructure,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It also funds programs that will help to create our next generation of computer security experts. I am proud of supporting this important legislation.”For more information about the Cybersecurity Enhancement Act, please visit: https://science.house.gov/RelatedByTag.aspx?KeywordID=43.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.04.2010	“Dorie Miller” stamp unveiled with three others at United States Navy MemorialWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson gave remarks at this morning’s dedication of the Distinguished Sailors collectible postal stamps, which honor four American sailors who served with distinction in the 20th century: William S. Sims, Arleigh A. Burke, John McCloy and Doris “Dorie” Miller. Congresswoman Johnson has been working to honor Petty Officer Miller with the Congressional Medal of Honor since she first came to Congress in 1993.“For more than 50 years, Members of Congress have been working to give Petty Officer Doris Miller a Congressional Medal of Honor,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Eighteen years after I first came to the House, we are still working on it. In my judgment, Dorie Miller saved our country from invasion, and as long as I live, I will do what I can to honor this great American hero.”On December 7, 1941, Petty Officer Miller was aboard the USS West Virginia, which was docked in Pearl Harbor. When his ship was hit, Miller dragged his wounded commander out of the line of fire. He then manned an anti-aircraft machine gun, and though he had no formal training with naval artillery, he successfully shot down enemy planes.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.27.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address tonight:“For over a decade, families in our country have been working harder but falling farther behind, and President Obama understands that the American people expect—and deserve—change. Tonight, in his State of the Union address, the President made it clear that his focus is on the small businesses on Main Street. I support President Obama’s plan to restore economic security to our country.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.26.2010	Congresswoman Johnson hosts experts from White House, Feeding America and United WayWashington, DC – The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Community Reinvestment Taskforce, which Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson chairs with Congressman Danny Davis of Illinois, today hosted a briefing on community service initiatives. The speakers were Sonal Shah, Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of the White House Office of Social Innovation and Civic Participation; Jean Yavis Jones, Senior Policy and Research Counsel for Feeding America; and Stacey D. Stewart, Executive Vice President of Community Impact Leadership and Learning at United Way Worldwide.“We must fundamentally change the way we understand problems in our society and the way we meet the communal challenges we face,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “President Obama has called on us to serve our communities in unique and dynamic ways, and our speakers today have extremely valuable ideas on how we can meet that challenge.”In 2009, Congress passed and President Obama signed the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, which more than tripled the number of AmeriCorps volunteers and created a Social Innovation Fund to invest in ideas for new service programs.More information about opportunities for service is available at www.serve.gov, www.servir.gov (Spanish), www.feedingamerica.org and www.liveunited.org.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.22.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that REACH has received a five-year, $415,547 grant from the U.S. Department of Education, under the Centers for Independent Living (CILs) Recovery Act Program. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) provided significant new funding for the CILs program, which funds independent living centers that serve individuals with disabilities.“The Centers for Independent Living program supports organizations like REACH, which provide vital support to people with significant disabilities throughout the North Texas region,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am pleased to announce that recovery money will fund REACH’s extremely worth programs.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.21.2010	Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson co-sponsor of H. Res. 1021Washington, DC – The House today passed H. Res. 1021, a bipartisan resolution expressing solidarity with Haitians, Haitian-Americans and all others who have lost loved ones or been affected by the January 12 earthquake near Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson co-sponsored the resolution, which passed the House by a vote of 411-1.“The scale of the disaster in Haiti makes it difficult to determine the full extent of the catastrophe,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “However, it is estimated that close to 200,000 people lost their lives in the earthquake in Haiti, and that more than 1.5 million people are now homeless. The earthquake destroyed much of the country’s infrastructure, slowing the flow of aid to Haiti and hampering rescue and recovery.“The U.S. government has responded to the earthquake by sending roughly 12,000 military personnel to Haiti and contributing more than $100 million so far,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “Americans have opened their hearts and their wallets, donating hundreds of millions of dollars to earthquake relief efforts. In this resolution, the House makes a commitment to continue to support the people of Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, as they rebuild their country.”The full text of the resolution follows:RESOLUTIONExpressing condolences to and solidarity with the people of Haiti in the aftermath of the devastating earthquake of January 12, 2010. Whereas, on January 12, 2010, a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck the country of Haiti; Whereas, according to the United States Geological Survey (USGS), the earthquake epicenter was located approximately 10 miles southwest of the capital, Port-au-Prince; Whereas the earthquake has been followed by dangerous aftershocks, including two of 5.9 and 5.5 magnitude, and with the most severe to date, at 6.1, coming on January 20, 2010; Whereas casualty estimates, still being compiled, as well as infrastructure damage, including to roads, ports, hospitals, and residential dwellings, place this earthquake as the worst cataclysm to hit Haiti in over two centuries; Whereas an estimated 3,000,000 people have been directly affected by the disaster in Haiti, nearly one-third of the country's population, who are currently at risk of long-term displacement and vulnerability; Whereas the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) headquarters collapsed with approximately 150 staff members inside, including the head of the mission, Hedi Annabi, causing the largest loss of life in United Nations history; Whereas an unknown number of individuals remain trapped under collapsed buildings, as rescue teams work around-the-clock to locate and extract survivors; Whereas the destruction of infrastructure, particularly to the port, airport, roads, and telecommunications, continues to hinder the immediate delivery of humanitarian assistance in Haiti; Whereas Haiti is the poorest, least developed country in the Western Hemisphere, and prior to the earthquake was ranked 149 out of 182 countries on the United Nations Human Development Index; Whereas prior to the earthquake, Haiti was still in the process of recovering from a ruinous recent series of hurricanes and tropical storms, food shortages and rising commodity prices, and political instability, but was showing encouraging signs of improvement; Whereas in addition to the pressure to secure communities and prevent looters from causing further harm to their citizens who are struggling to recover, Haiti's penitentiary collapsed and spilled untold numbers of criminals into an already disturbing security situation; Whereas a number of children legally confirmed as orphans are eligible for intercountry adoption, and the uncertain welfare of children who are already in the process of being adopted is of urgent concern to their prospective adoptive parents in the United States; Whereas it is in the interests of these orphans and their prospective adoptive parents to facilitate and expedite legal adoptions of Haitian orphans to the United States; Whereas President Obama vowed the `unwavering support' of the United States and pledged a `swift, coordinated and aggressive effort to save lives and support the recovery in Haiti'; Whereas the response to the tragedy from the global community has been overwhelmingly positive; Whereas the initial emergency response of the men and women of the United States Government, led by the United States Agency for International Development and United States Southern Command, has been swift and resolute; Whereas MINUSTAH peacekeepers, while still trying to rescue their colleagues in their headquarters, have taken a leading role to assist in clearing roads and providing security around Port-au-Prince to facilitate aid into the earthquake disaster zone; Whereas the United States Department of Homeland Security has temporarily halted the deportation of Haitian nationals to Haiti in response to the devastation caused by the earthquake; Whereas the United States Department of Homeland Security granted the designation of Temporary Protected Status for Haitian nationals who are in the United States and unable to return to their country due to the destruction and humanitarian crisis in Haiti; Whereas individuals, businesses, and philanthropic organizations across the United States and throughout the international community have responded in support of Haiti and its populace during this time of crisis, sometimes in innovative ways such as fundraising through text messaging; Whereas throughout this terrible calamity, the Haitian people continue to demonstrate unwavering resilience, dignity, and courage; and Whereas once proper surveys and assessments are conducted, the initial and crucial emergency relief response will likely move to a comprehensive mission requiring sustained assistance from the United States and the international community for reconstruction and development efforts: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives—(1) expresses its deepest condolences and sympathy for the horrific loss of life and the physical and psychological damage caused by the earthquake of January 12, 2010;(2) expresses solidarity with Haitians, Haitian Americans, and all those who have lost loved ones or have otherwise been affected by the tragedy, including United States Embassy personnel, United Nations peacekeepers, and humanitarian workers;(3) commends the efforts and honors the sacrifice of the men and women of the Government of Haiti, the United States Government, the United Nations, and the international community in their immediate response to those affected by this calamity;(4) commends the efforts of the American people, including the Haitian-American community, to provide relief to families, friends, and unknown peoples suffering in the country;(5) supports the efforts of the Administration to provide and coordinate international humanitarian assistance and to provide relief to affected communities;(6) expresses support for the recovery and long-term reconstruction needs of Haiti;(7) recognizes that the recovery and long-term needs of Haiti will require a sustained commitment by the United States and international community based on comprehensive assessments of the development needs for Haiti;(8) urges those who hold debt against Haiti, including the Inter-American Development Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and all other regional and international institutions and countries, to immediately suspend further debt payments, and to develop processes to cancel all remaining debt; and(9) urges the President—(A) to continue to make available to United States agencies, nongovernmental organizations, private voluntary organizations, regional institutions, and United Nations agencies the resources necessary to confront the effects and consequences of this natural disaster;(B) to provide, when the emergency subsides, assistance in partnership with the Government of Haiti and in coordination with other donors to begin the reconstruction of Haiti;(C) to undertake comprehensive assessments of the long-term needs for recovery and development in Haiti, ensure transparency and accountability, and lead coordination efforts with international actors who share in the goal of a better future for Haiti and are willing to support the costs of meeting those needs; and(D) to utilize new and innovative thinking in providing long-term assistance to Haiti, including tapping into the insight and immense potential of the Haitian Diaspora, to help Haitians rebuild upon the strongest possible foundation, in order to promote a stable and sustainable future for Haiti.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.15.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement about the 2010 Martin Luther King, Jr. Day of Service, which is celebrated on Monday, January 18: “On Monday, our nation commemorates Martin Luther King, Jr., a man who has inspired me as he continues to inspire people around the world. Through his words and his actions, Dr. King demonstrated that nonviolence and service to others are critical components of social change. On Monday, we have the opportunity to remember this great man with a national Day of Service. I commend the residents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas who plan to participate, as well as those who work to improve our communities throughout the year.” On Wednesday, Congresswoman Johnson submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record: I rise today in recognition of Martin Luther King, Jr. and to honor this great civil rights leader by supporting and continuing the tradition of a national day of service in his memory. As a profoundly diverse country, our greatest strengths are evident when we come together in the spirit of community and work toward a greater good. This notion of service was remarkably evident in Dr. King’s work, and it is fitting that we honor his legacy by working with our neighbors and fellow citizens to better our communities and country. When Dr. King saw injustice, he worked diligently and by peaceful means to bring about positive change. Today, it is important to remember that all of us can make a difference and emulate Dr. King’s efforts by working together. In my district, there are major celebrations planned to honor the life of Dr. King, including a candle-lighting ceremony and a parade. Students in the Dallas Independent School District have submitted essays that discuss the life and work of Dr. King, and additionally, people across the area will participate in service-oriented projects and volunteer for various organizations. I am proud of the hard work they are doing to make North Texas a better place. Today, we move forward by honoring Martin Luther King, Jr. and his great dream with renewed optimism. It is my hope that this Day of Service will be a true reflection of his legacy and serve as a catalyst for good across the country. ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.15.2010	Congresswoman Johnson calls on Fox News and other media outlets to report accurately on Mojib Latif’s climate change research Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, third in seniority on the House Committee on Science and Technology and a member of the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, today called on Fox News and other conservative media outlets to report accurately on climate scientist Mojib Latif’s scientific research on climate change. In recent days, some conservative commentators have argued that a study by Dr. Latif found that the earth is on the verge of a “mini ice age.” Dr. Latif has stated repeatedly that this understanding of his work is in error. “The consensus of the scientific community is that climate change is not only occurring, but that it poses a major threat to humankind,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “News organizations do a great disservice to their viewers when they distort the work of respected scientists. Indeed, Dr. Latif has himself said repeatedly that while we may see some variations in global temperatures in the coming years, the earth is experiencing a long-term, man-made warming trend. “I have served on the Science Committee for 17 years,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “I continue to look to scientific experts for the facts that help me to understand how to best slow climate change and protect future generations.” ### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.13.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the earthquake that occurred yesterday in Haiti:“My thoughts and prayers are with the victims of yesterday’s earthquake near the Haitian capital of Port-au-Prince, and with those in other parts of the world who are frantically trying to contact loved ones in Haiti. President Obama has made a commitment to deliver immediate humanitarian relief to the people of Haiti, and I fully support his effort to mobilize American resources. He recognizes, as I do, that the long-term challenges within Haiti make the unwavering support of the United States even more critical.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.12.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Housing Authority of the City of Dallas will receive a $54,796 grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Family Self-Sufficiency Program. The funding is to be used to hire a program coordinator to connect housing assistance recipients with training opportunities, job placement organizations and local employers.“The Housing Authority of Dallas provides invaluable assistance to low-income residents of our community,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This grant will enable the Housing Authority to continue to support the efforts of low-income families to find employment and save money.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.07.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today commended the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which released draft rules to tighten air quality standards this morning. The rules proposed by the Obama administration would lower the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ground-level ozone to 0.060-0.070 parts per million (ppm), down from the Bush administration’s standard of 0.075 ppm.“By proposing to implement tougher standards on ozone-forming pollutants, the Obama administration is demonstrating its commitment to environmental protection and public health,” Congresswoman Johnson. “I applaud the Environmental Protection Agency’s efforts to tighten the lax regulations that were put into place by the prior administration.”In 2007, Congresswoman Johnson successfully added an amendment to the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill that halted an attempt by the Bush administration to weaken the Clean Air Act. In the 111th Congress, she has introduced the Mercury Emissions Reduction Act, which will amend the Clean Air Act to make coal-fired electric power plants subject to the most rigorous mercury emissions standard under the Clean Air Act, the Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standard. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.29.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson welcomed news she received today from Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood that Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport (DFW) has been selected to receive a $2.3 million grant in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) funds.“As the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the Recovery Act, I am pleased to see these funds come to DFW,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Federal Aviation Administration’s most recent data shows that DFW is the fourth-busiest airport in the U.S., and this grant money will be put toward improvements that are critical to maintaining and enhancing capacity and safety at DFW.”The $2.3 million grant will be used to rehabilitate a runway critical to the DFW’s capacity. With this grant, all of the Federal Aviation Administration’s Recovery Act dollars have been committed, and many Recovery Act projects will remain under construction well into 2010.“Thanks to Congresswoman Johnson’s courageous vote, Recovery Act dollars are putting people back to work in good-paying jobs making needed improvements at airports across the country,” said Secretary LaHood. “Without this money, many of these airport authorities would not have had the resources to hire workers and get these projects started.”Construction on the DFW project is expected to begin in early January and will include the rehabilitation of various concrete slabs and joint repairs on the 13,400-foot runway. This work will help enhance safety by eliminating the opportunity for debris to develop along the runway surface. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.11.2009	House passes Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act 223-202Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted in support of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, legislation that will overhaul the financial system and shield the American economy from the risks it was exposed to during last year’s financial crisis. H.R. 4173 passed the House by a vote of 223-202.“The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will bring stability to our nation’s financial system by reining in Wall Street and holding it accountable,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The days of taxpayer-funded bailouts are over. With this legislation, we protect Americans’ retirement funds, college savings and homes, as well as the financial futures of small businesses across the country.”The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency that will have as its sole mission oversight of potentially harmful financial products sold to consumers. The agency will consolidate and streamline enforcement of roughly 20 laws that are currently overseen by 7 different agencies. The legislation will also give the federal government the necessary tools to preemptively dismantle big banks that have taken actions that could threaten the entire economy, as well as to wind down failing firms quickly and orderly. Finally, it will increase transparency at the Federal Reserve and strengthen enforcement by the Securities and Exchange Commission.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.30.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement for World AIDS Day, which is observed tomorrow, December 1:“Though we have made great progress in fighting HIV/AIDS, serious challenges remain. New infections in the U.S. still number in the tens of thousands each year, and many of those infected don’t have access to adequate medical treatment. Today, on World AIDS Day, I recognize those who live with HIV/AIDS and offer them my support. I also commend the many HIV/AIDS organizations in the United States and around the world for their efforts to slow the rate of infection and assist people who live with the virus, many of whom are in desperate need.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.23.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today joined President Obama for an event at the White House celebrating science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) education initiatives. The event emphasized the importance of investing in programs for students in minority and underserved communities.“Many young people in the United States—particularly minority, female and low-income students—don’t have access to quality STEM education. As a result, minorities and women are underrepresented in the STEM fields,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “President Obama recognizes the importance of quality STEM education, and he recognizes the importance of expanding access to it. I applaud his efforts, and I was honored to participate in today’s event.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.19.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Head Start of Greater Dallas and the Child Care Group will receive a total of more than $3 million in Early Head Start Expansion grants under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, economic recovery legislation that President Obama signed into law in February.“The Early Head Start program provides vital support to low-income pregnant women, infants and toddlers,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The program enables pregnant women to access prenatal and postpartum care and enhances the physical, intellectual, and emotional development of very young children. I am pleased that Head Start of Greater Dallas and the Child Care Group will be able to use recovery money to benefit the youngest and most vulnerable members of our community.”Head Start of Greater Dallas will receive $2,190,462 and the Child Care Group will receive $895,602 from the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.19.2009	Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act prevents 21 percent cut in Medicare physician paymentsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act. The Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act will prevent the 21 percent cut in Medicare physician payment rates scheduled for January 2010. It will also replace the formula currently used to calculate payment rates, the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula, with a new system that is permanent and sustainable. The House passed the bill by a vote of 243-183.“The Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act will permanently reform the Medicare payment system, ensuring doctors are compensated fairly,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “A stabilized payment system will encourage doctors to continue to see Medicare patients, protecting seniors by preserving their relationships with their current doctors. The legislation will also benefit members of the military and their families, because physician payment rates in TRICARE are tied to those used by Medicare.”H.R. 3961 is companion legislation to the Affordable Health Care for America Act, the landmark health care reform legislation the House passed on November 7.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.18.2009	Washington, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3791, the Fire Grants Reauthorization Act, which reauthorizes the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program and the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program for the next five years. The bill includes language inserted by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson that enhances mental health support for firefighters in the wellness and fitness programs established by the bill. The Fire Grants Reauthorization Act passed by a vote of 395-31.“As municipal governments struggle to balance budgets and provide needed services, the AFG and SAFER programs become even more critical,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The Fire Grants Reauthorization Act strengthens fire departments around the country, making the communities they serve safer and more secure.”The Fire Grants Reauthorization Act provides an authorization of $1 billion per fiscal year for the AFG program, which provides money to fire departments to purchase equipment, fire trucks and other resources, and to fund training programs. The legislation authorizes $1.194 billion per year for the SAFER program, which provides money to fire departments to hire additional firefighters.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.10.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement for Veterans Day, which is observed tomorrow:“My thoughts and prayers today are with the many soldiers who were wounded during the tragic shooting at Fort Hood on November 5, and with the loved ones of those who died. Today, on Veterans Day, I wish to express my deepest gratitude and appreciation to all of our nation’s fallen heroes. I also wish to honor the million-plus American servicemen and women who are currently stationed in the United States and around the world. I commend them for their bravery and for the sacrifices they make to keep our nation safe and secure.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.07.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which passed the House today by a vote of 220-215.“Today is a historic day in the House of Representatives. With the passage of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, we have taken a greater step towards making affordable, high-quality health care available and accessible to all Americans than we have taken in the past 60 years.“In the 30th District of Texas, the Affordable Health Care for America Act will improve employer-based coverage for 264,000 residents and provide coverage for 207,000 uninsured residents. It will improve Medicare for 71,000 beneficiaries and close the prescription drug donut hole for 5,000 seniors. It will provide immediate support for people throughout the 30th District by prohibiting common insurance company practices of placing lifetime caps on coverage and of rescinding policies from people who get sick.“The Affordable Health Care for America Act makes health care coverage for Americans more affordable and gives Americans more choices in coverage. Furthermore, it doesn’t add a cent to the deficit. I am proud to cast a vote in favor of this historic legislation.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.06.2009	Wastewater Treatment Works Security Act, introduced by Congresswoman Johnson in June, part of passed legislationWashington, DC – The House today passed H.R. 2868, the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Act of 2009, which will make the country’s drinking and wastewater facilities and approximately 6,000 high-risk chemical facilities safer. The bill passed the House by a vote of 230-193. Title III of the bill, the Wastewater Treatment Works Security Act of 2009, was originally introduced as a stand-alone bill by Congresswoman Johnson on June 16.The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Act makes the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards (CFATS) permanent and mandates that chemical plants analyze how they can reduce the consequences of a terrorist attack through the use of available, cost-effective and safer chemicals and processes. It also covers drinking water and wastewater facilities, which often use and store large volumes of chemicals, for the first time.“The Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Act will make communities throughout the United States safer,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “With passage of this bill, the House makes it clear that the protection of critical infrastructure is a national priority. Wastewater treatment works, such as sanitary and storm sewers, run near or beneath buildings and roads in major cities and small communities, and they run close to many communication and transportation networks. To keep Americans safe, we need to ensure that these systems are secure, and this bill will help us meet that goal.”Under the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Act, states and localities can adopt additional safety and security measures if they determine they are warranted. The bill also requires that employees of high-risk chemical facilities be subject to background checks, including criminal history, immigration status and terrorist watch list checks.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.05.2009	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on H.R. 3548, the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 403-12. In Texas, unemployment benefits will be extended fourteen additional weeks. “I voted today for the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act because it will improve our nation’s economy by helping families and businesses. Passage of this bipartisan bill will extend important unemployment insurance benefits to millions of Americans who are out of work due to circumstances beyond their control. Extending unemployment benefits is one of the best ways to improve the economy because every dollar spent on unemployment translates to $1.63 in new economic demand. The bill will also extend the first-time homebuyer tax credit and provide tax relief for military families and struggling businesses. The homebuyer tax credit is invaluable to lower- and middle-income families who want to purchase a home for the first time.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.29.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Dallas Independent School District will receive $7,982,680 in funding under the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA). The funding will be used to continue the Teacher Incentive Fund for one year.“Teachers are one of our nation’s greatest resources because they are responsible for educating the next generation of Americans,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “These Recovery Act funds will allow our schools to retain well-qualified teachers by compensating them adequately for their hard work. Education is an important part of the recovery effort because it equips our citizens with the skills necessary to contribute to our nation’s economy.”The Teacher Incentive Fund is used to encourage the development of performance-based teacher compensation systems in high-need schools. Programs that receive funding through the Teacher Incentive Fund must promote gains in student academic achievement and conduct classroom evaluations multiple times during the academic year. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.29.2009	Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced that the Texas Mezzanine Fund and the Dallas Development Fund will receive a total of $80,000,000 in tax credits from the U.S. Department of Treasury. The Texas Mezzanine Fund will receive $25,000,000 under the Treasury Department’s New Markets Tax Program, and the Dallas Development fund will receive $55,000,000 under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA).“These tax credits will make it easier for community-based financial institutions to invest in economic development projects that improve economically-distressed areas of Dallas,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am confident that this funding will help revitalize lower-income communities by attracting businesses, creating jobs and providing access to affordable housing options. Commercial enterprise, employment opportunities and affordable housing options are all essential to encouraging economic development in Dallas.”The Dallas Development Fund is administered by the City of Dallas and is intended to provide capital to build community facilities and support job-generating projects in lower-income areas of Dallas. The Fund prioritizes projects that are close to light rail stations in order to allow more residents to take advantage of the City’s mass transportation options. The Texas Mezzanine Fund is a community development financial institution that gives loans to job-creating and service-providing businesses and non-profits, with an emphasis on minority-owned businesses. The funding will be used primarily to make low-interest loans to businesses that employ blue-collar workers and nonprofits that provide basic services to residents of lower-income communities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.29.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson made the following statement on the Affordable Health Care for America Act, which was unveiled today:“Our health care system is in crisis. Many, many working Americans are unable to afford health insurance, and many who can afford it are denied coverage by insurance companies due to pre-existing conditions. If the insurance companies wanted to cover these millions of people, they would already have done so. I remain committed to working to pass legislation that will achieve what the President, the majority of Congress and, most importantly, the majority of the American people want: high-quality, affordable and accessible health care coverage.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.21.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson submitted the following Congressional Record statement in support of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act, which passed the House today by a vote of 408-9:I rise today in support of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act of 2009. This important program has helped numerous people across the country living with HIV/AIDS by helping to provide funding to states, urban areas, insurance providers, and other organizations for HIV/AIDS related care. It is estimated that the Ryan White Program helps more than half of a million people annually, and legislation to extend this program is incredibly important for those individuals’ wellbeing. Reauthorized three times since it was first enacted in 1990 in response to the growing HIV/AIDS crisis, this legislation will help to modernize the program to address present day concerns.I would be remiss as well if I did not discuss the disproportionate impact that HIV/AIDS has on minority communities and particularly the African-American community. Although African-Americans account for about 13% of the US population, they constitute roughly half of all Americans who become infected with HIV/AIDS. According to the Center for Disease Control, the rate of AIDS diagnoses for African-American adults and adolescents is ten times higher than the rate for whites and three times higher than the rate for Latinos. Truly these numbers are way too high, and we must resolve anew to continue to fight this terrible disease.I encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act so that we can offer care to those individuals who are suffering with HIV/AIDS and combat the disease as well. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.15.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today submitted the following Congressional Record statement in recognition of National Latino AIDS Awareness Day of 2009, which is today.Madam Speaker, I rise today to recognize National Latino AIDS Awareness Day of 2009, which takes place today, on Thursday, October 15, 2009. I want to commend the various individuals and groups that have worked hard to make this day a reality, including the Hispanic Federation, the Latino Commission on AIDS, the National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors and various other local, regional, and national partners.National Latino AIDS Awareness Day is an incredibly important day that helps bring attention to the problems the Latino community faces in regards to the HIV/AIDS crisis. While the HIV/AIDS problem is an issue that affects every racial and ethnic group in the United States, it unfortunately has a disproportionate impact on the Latino community. In 2006, there were roughly 80,000 Latinos living with AIDS, representing 18% of all those living with the disease, and although Latinos compromise 15.3% of the U.S. population, they account for 24.3% of new HIV infections. Additionally, stigma within the community, lack of access to health care, and misinformation about the virus make it difficult to combat. Truly, this must be changed, and embracing the goals and ideas of National Latino AIDS Awareness Day is a step towards making that happen.I am reminded, too, that the Latino community is not alone in this struggle. Other ethnic groups and particularly the African-American community are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. We must all stand together, learn from each other, and work toward ending this virus that hurts so many people in our country and across the world.Madam Speaker, I urge my fellow colleagues to join me today in recognizing National Latino AIDS Awareness Day for the betterment of our country and the health of the numerous ethnic groups that add so much to our national character.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.15.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today hosted the Chair of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Å½eljko Komšic, for a meeting in her office. Congresswoman Johnson and President Komšic discussed constitutional reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the country’s prospects of accession to NATO and the European Union.“I am very optimistic about the progress that Bosnia and Herzegovina has made in the time since I visited the region shortly after the end of the Bosnian War,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I support the efforts the country has made to gain accession to both NATO and the EU, and I communicated my support to President Komšic during our meeting today.”During the meeting, Congresswoman Johnson discussed her peace initiative, A World of Women for World Peace, to bring greater visibility and support to the women who are facilitating peacemaking, peacekeeping, and peace-building in conflict areas around the world.Earlier this year, Congresswoman Johnson hosted Bosnian Women’s Day on Capitol Hill, which is held each year to bring attention to women’s rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to promote their participation in government. She also hosted young Bosnian-American professionals during Bosnia and Herzegovina Days on Capitol Hill this summer.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.13.2009	Grants total more than $34 millionWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced a total of $34,155,666 in U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development grants for the 30th Congressional District of Texas.“Funding grants from the Department of Housing and Urban Development help to improve our communities, often by providing support to those most in need,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “These funds will be particularly valuable in today’s economy, when too many people are experiencing housing and financial insecurity.”The Consumer Credit Counseling Service (CCCS) of Greater Dallas will receive $300,625 in Housing Counseling Program funds, which can be used for improving financial literacy, expanding homeownership opportunities, improving access to affordable housing and preserving homeownership. The City of Dallas will receive $17,919,874 and Dallas County will receive $2,162,131 from the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which expands economic and housing opportunities in urban communities. The City of Dallas will receive $770,512 and Dallas County will receive $92,919 in Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG) funding, which improves the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. The City of Dallas will receive $8,492,632 and Dallas County will receive $774,365 from the HOME program, which helps expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families. Finally, the City of Dallas will receive $3,642,608 in Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) funding, which can be used for housing assistance and other supportive services for low-income persons diagnosed with HIV/AIDS.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.09.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the Nobel Committee’s awarding of the Nobel Peace Prize to President Barack Obama:“The international standing of the United States has suffered in recent years, and the international response to the election of President Obama was deeply heartening to me. Already, I sense a change in how the rest of the world sees our great nation. We face grave challenges in the United States, as do people around the world. I believe our president will use his leadership and diplomatic skills to not only inspire us, but to do the hard work necessary to build a better future.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.06.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Financial Education for Teachers and Students Act, which will authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants to states for financial education in public middle and high schools. The grants will fund financial literacy programs for students and their parents, as well as professional development for the teachers of the programs.“A basic understanding of personal finance is crucial to navigating today’s economy,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “When money is tight, as it is for many during a recession, it is particularly important to understand how to make a budget, manage credit, save for retirement and avoid predatory loans.“Currently, only 21 states require that schools implement financial education programs,” she continued. “This legislation will ensure that young people throughout the entire country have access to financial education and develop good personal finance habits early.”Congresswoman Johnson has introduced three other financial literacy bills in the 111th Congress. The National Financial Literacy Act of 2009 will provide incentives to financial institutions, small businesses and corporations to provide financial education to their customers and employees. The Naturalized Citizens Assistance Act will make financial education more available to newly-naturalized American citizens. Finally, the Expanding Tax Assistance Act of 2009 will ensure that there is at least one official Internal Revenue Service tax assistance center located in each Congressional district.The Financial Education for Teachers and Students Act is a companion bill to S. 1339, the Financial Literacy for Students Act of 2009, which Senator Kay Hagan introduced in June.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.01.2009	Funds for Dallas Floodway included in appropriationWashington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson voted in favor of the Conference Report for H.R. 3183, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The legislation appropriates money for energy and water quality needs and invests in new technologies, scientific research and conservation efforts, and the Conference Report appropriates $12.594 million for the Dallas Floodway extension and $1.345 million for improvements to the existing structures.“This funding will enable the Army Corps of Engineers to build levees, extending the existing flood control infrastructure and protecting 12,500 residential and commercial structures,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It will also enable the Corps to study improvements to the existing Dallas floodway system. Throughout my tenure as a Member of Congress, I have worked to bring money to the Trinity River Project.”Senate action on the bill could come next week.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.01.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded 270 housing choice vouchers to the Dallas Housing Authority. The vouchers are a replacement for units in Rhoads Terrace, a public housing development that the Dallas Housing Authority demolished. The value of the housing choice vouchers totals $2,151,133.“Now, during the recession, more and more families are becoming homeless or are in danger of becoming homeless,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “These vouchers will ensure that 270 families in our community find safe and affordable places to live. Furthermore, the Housing Choice Voucher Program does more than provide financial support to families, it gives them mobility and self-determination, enabling them to live in the neighborhoods that best meet their needs.”The Dallas Housing Authority currently has a waiting list of more than 7,500 families for housing choice vouchers.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.01.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Mosaic Family Services of Dallas, TX, will receive a $90,000 grant from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program. Mosaic Family Services serves refugees and immigrants who have been victims of human trafficking and domestic violence in North Texas, at no cost.“Since 1993, Mosaic Family Services has helped refugees and immigrants in North Texas who are in crisis or in danger,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Their clients are often people who are low-income and limited in English proficiency, and who have nowhere else to turn. I commend the important work they do, and I know they will use this grant to provide culturally-sensitive support to members of our community who truly need it.”The Legal Assistance for Victims Grant Program funds civil and criminal legal assistance programs for adult and youth victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault and stalking.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.22.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the City of Dallas and the County of Dallas will receive $18,354,522 in funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), economic recovery legislation that Congress passed and President Obama signed into law in February.“The Obama administration has moved quickly to award recovery money to state and local governments,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am pleased that District 30 will receive millions more in grants. Not only will the funding help to move our economy towards recovery, it will help families in our community that are in crisis.”The City of Dallas will receive $12,787,300 from the U.S. Department of Energy under the Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) program. Local governments can use EECBG money for energy audits, building retrofits, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy improvements. The Cities of Cedar Hill and DeSoto received EECBG funding earlier this month.The City of Dallas will also receive $4,700,469 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) under the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, which funds the rehabilitation of affordable housing and the construction and improvement of public facilities. Finally, the County of Dallas will receive $866,753 from HUD in Homelessness Prevention and Rapid Re-Housing (HPRP) funds. HPRP grants financial assistance to people who would otherwise become homeless, in the form of rental assistance, security deposits, utility deposits and payments, moving cost assistance, and hotel vouchers.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.17.2009	Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act passes House 253-171Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA), the largest aid investment in history to make college more affordable for students and their families. SAFRA reforms and stabilizes the existing system of federal student loans, saving taxpayers $87 billion in the process. It passed the House by a vote of 253-171.“The economic crisis of the past year has made it more difficult for students and families to afford college, and the credit crisis exposed serious vulnerabilities in the existing student loan system,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This legislation safeguards the federal student loan program and makes it more efficient and cost-effective for the students it was meant to serve.”Congresswoman Johnson spoke on the House floor in favor of the Himes/McCarthy/Schwartz Amendment to the bill, which clarifies that some funding under the bill can be used for financial literacy activities. The amendment passed by a vote of 428-2.“Broad-based financial literacy initiatives help our young people become responsible, productive adults,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Financial education is a crucial component of postsecondary education.”The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act will simplify the federal student aid application process, keep interest rates affordable on need-based federal student loans, and increase the maximum Pell Grant from $5,350 in 2009 to $5,550 in 2010 and $6,900 in 2019. It will also stabilize the federal student loan program by originating all new loans through the government’s Direct Loan program. Private entities will continue to be allowed to compete for contracts to service loans, ensuring that students get the best services available.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.17.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson received the “Making the Difference Award” from the National Foundation for Credit Counseling Tuesday night, in recognition for her support of financial literacy initiatives in Congress.“I believe that a financially-literate public is a key component of a strong economy,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “As we work to move our economy to recovery and then to long-term prosperity, we must also do whatever we can to promote financial education. I am honored to receive this award, and I look forward to a long partnership with the National Foundation for Credit Counseling.”In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Johnson has introduced the National Financial Literacy Act of 2009, which will provide incentives to financial institutions, small businesses and corporations to provide financial education to their customers and employees, and the Naturalized Citizens Assistance Act, which will make financial education more available to newly-naturalized American citizens. Under both bills, financial education programs will include such topics as saving for retirement, managing credit, long-term care, estate planning, insurance, income taxes, predatory lending, identity theft and financial abuse schemes. Congresswoman Johnson also introduced the Expanding Tax Assistance Act of 2009, which will ensure that there is at least one official Internal Revenue Service tax assistance center located in each Congressional district.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.16.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on Hispanic Heritage Month, which began September 15 and runs through October 15 each year:“During Hispanic Heritage Month, we honor the Hispanic community and the contributions Latinos have made to the 30th District of Texas and nationwide. Hispanic values – faith, family, love of country – are American values. The Hispanic dream – the hope of a better, more prosperous future – is the American dream.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.11.2009	Congresswoman Johnson’s office partners with UTD and Dallas County for weatherization project on National Day of Service and RemembranceWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, in partnership with the Institute for Urban Policy Research at the University of Texas at Dallas and Dallas County Health & Human Services, held a Community Energy Audit today, on the first federally-designated National Day of Service and Remembrance. The Community Energy Audit brought together 40 volunteers, who notified more than 500 Dallas homeowners of their eligibility for the Dallas County Weatherization Assistance Program. It was the first in a series of “Green the Block Dallas” events.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, landmark economic legislation enacted by President Obama in February, provided millions of dollars to local governments to provide weatherization assistance to low-income households. The Institute for Urban Policy Research identified homes in the neighborhoods surrounding Fair Park likely to be eligible for the Dallas County Weatherization Assistance Program in advance of today’s event. At 9:11 this morning, volunteers began the process of knocking on the door of each pre-identified house and notifying homeowners of their likely eligibility in person. Homeowners can contact Dallas County Health & Human Services for further assistance.“Today is our first opportunity to honor September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance, and I applaud the volunteers for taking the time to participate in the Community Energy Audit,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “We still grieve for the people we lost eight years ago, and today we can remember them while also serving our country and working hard to make it a better place.”The National Day of Service and Remembrance was created by the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, which President Obama signed into law on April 21. Green the Block Dallas is a grassroots partnership between Hip Hop Government, the Institute for Urban Policy Research and the Progressive Center of Texas.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.09.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening:“Tonight, President Obama outlined his primary goals in reforming health care: bringing stability and security to Americans who currently have insurance and giving uninsured Americans access to affordable, quality health care coverage. I strongly support President Obama in his efforts to make health care affordable and accessible for all Americans."The problems in our health care system weren’t created overnight, and we will not be able to fix them overnight. However, with hard work, we will be able to build on what works in our current system and improve what doesn’t. We have no choice—the truth is that doing nothing about health care is no longer an option.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.09.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that the City of Cedar Hill will receive $176,600 and the City of DeSoto will receive $187,700 in Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant (EECBG) funding awards. Activities eligible for EECBG funding include energy audits, building retrofits, the development and implementation of advanced building codes and inspections, and the creation of financial incentive programs for energy efficiency improvements.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has provided millions of dollars to communities in the 30th Congressional District of Texas,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Cedar Hill and DeSoto can use this funding to improve energy efficiency, lower fossil fuel emissions and create green jobs locally. As with much of the recovery funding, not only will these funding awards boost the economy in the short term, they will provide lasting, long-term benefits to our communities.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), the landmark economic recovery legislation enacted in February, funded the EECBG Program, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Energy.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.04.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Labor Day, which is on Monday, September 7.“Labor Day gives us the opportunity to recognize American workers, who make our nation’s economy the strongest, most innovative and most resilient in the world. Our working families deserve fair wages, safe working conditions and access to quality health care, and I pledge to continue to do everything I can to expand these opportunities to more Americans, and to support legislation that keeps our economy on the path to full recovery.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
09.02.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced today that the United States Postal Service (USPS) Office of Inspector General has begun an independent audit of proposed changes to mail processing at the Dallas Main Post Office. The USPS recently recommended moving processing and distribution operations from the Dallas Main Post Office to Coppell, on the recommendation of an Area Mail Processing study. The USPS has agreed to postpone a decision regarding the consolidation, pending completion of the audit. Congresswoman Johnson held a townhall on the issue in Dallas on August 24."I am pleased that the United States Postal Service will wait to make changes to the mail processing system in North Texas until an independent audit is completed," Congresswoman Johnson said. "While consolidating postal operations might be in the best interests of the postal service, it could have a negative impact on the city of Dallas and the postal employees who live there. I look forward to seeing the results of the audit; I am confident it will give everyone involved the information we need to evaluate the situation and decide how to move forward."According to the USPS Office of Inspector General, the audit will review the effect a move of operations would have on employees and the community, as well as the anticipated cost savings.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.26.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement today on the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts:“Throughout his long service in the United States Senate, Senator Edward Kennedy demonstrated a commitment to progressive ideals, a deep understanding of the issues, and an ability to work across the aisle to pass legislation. I will miss his leadership as we continue our national discussion on how to make health care accessible and affordable for all Americans. My thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones during this time of deep loss.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
08.24.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was joined by Dallas Mayor Tom Leppert, State Senator Royce West and representatives from the United States Postal Service (USPS) for a townhall on proposed changes to mail processing in North Texas this evening. More than 200 people attended the townhall, which Congresswoman Johnson organized in response to concerns about a USPS study that recommended moving outgoing mail processing operations from the Dallas Main Post Office to a postal facility in Coppell, TX.“I have been contacted by a diverse group of Dallas constituents, business owners, postal service employees and government officials, all of whom are concerned about the consequences of a transfer of postal service operations to a city more than 30 miles away from Dallas,” Congresswoman Johnson said in her opening remarks. “I have shared these concerns with the Postmaster General, the USPS Office of Inspector General and the Chair of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.“Furthermore, it has grown increasingly clear to me that there are many residents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas who do not feel well-informed on the nature of the proposed changes,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “I hope that this townhall enables more people to understand what is actually going on.”After Congresswoman Johnson opened the townhall, Mayor Leppert spoke. Other speakers included Tim Vierling, USPS Senior Plant Manager, and State Senator West. Editor of DallasSouthNews.org Shawn Williams moderated the question-and-answer portion of the townhall. Wilmer Mayor Jeff Steele was also in attendance, as were Reginald Gates, President of the Dallas Black Chamber of Commerce and Wendy Hodges-Kent and Wade Emmert of Best Southwest.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.30.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the “Hate Crimes Against the Homeless Statistics Act.” The legislation will include hate crimes against homeless people in the uniform hate crimes statistics collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI).“From 1999 to 2007, there have been 774 reported cases of violence against people who are homeless, including 217 that have resulted in death,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Homeless advocacy organizations have tracked these statistics in the absence of uniform law enforcement reporting. It is clear that homeless people are targeted simply because they are homeless, and it is time for the federal government to start tracking the number of violent attacks more closely.”Congresswoman Johnson coauthored the bill with Congressman Robert Wexler, and it has 13 original co-sponsors. It will add “homeless status” to the list of categories on which the FBI collects hate crimes data, which currently includes actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, gender, disability and sexual orientation.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.27.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held a telephone townhall for constituents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas tonight from 7:10 p.m. to 8:10 p.m. CST. The telephone townhall focused on health care reform, and constituents were able to ask Congresswoman Johnson questions about the health care system and Congressional efforts to improve it.Congresswoman Johnson opened the townhall by stressing the need for reform.“People who have health insurance have seen insurance premiums double in the last nine years, deductibles continue to climb, and out-of-pocket costs shoot up by a third,” Congresswoman Johnson said. During the recession, we have seen many people lose jobs—and losing a job often means losing health insurance coverage.“Furthermore, there are already 47 million people who don’t have health insurance in the U.S., and many of them live in Texas,” she continued. “People without insurance are often forced to use emergency rooms for their primary care, and they aren’t able to access the medical knowledge they need to stay healthy.”After outlining the House health care reform bill, she opened the discussion to questions from callers.Early in the call, Congresswoman Johnson discussed the ways in which small businesses will benefit from the enactment of the House bill.“We are going to put a plan together that small businesses can afford,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Small businesses will find coverage in the health insurance exchange, as will the self-employed. I think that most small businesses will want to help their employees have insurance.”In response to a question about the community health centers in the 30th District, Congresswoman Johnson emphasized the benefits to making primary care available to everyone. Throughout the call, she emphasized that emergency care is the most expensive kind of care there is.“We hope to divert people away from the emergency rooms and to these community health centers,” she said. “Eat differently, exercise more, get the weight down—we will insist on people having the opportunity to educate themselves so that they can be responsible.Finally, in response to a question about giving every American access to the health insurance that Members of Congress have, Congresswoman Johnson replied that a goal of health care reform is to make quality health insurance available to everyone.“You will be able to have my insurance,” she said. “I have Blue Cross/Blue Shield, and you can have the insurance I have if you want. It should be available to everyone, and I can tell you this: it is coming.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.23.2009	Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act passes House 256-168Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson secured more than $87 million in transportation funding for North Texas in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2010, which passed the House today by a vote of 256-168. Congresswoman Johnson secured $86,249,717 for Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) and $1,000,000 for the I-30 Trinity River Bridge.“The House is committed to passing fiscally responsible appropriations legislation, and I have worked hard to ensure that the 30th District of Texas receives its fair share,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “With this funding, DART can continue to expand the Green Line, and the City of Dallas can make improvements to the Trinity River Bridge that will turn it into a major city landmark.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.23.2009	Washington, DC – The national minimum wage will increase from $6.55 per hour to $7.25 per hour tomorrow. This 70-cent increase is the last of three increases to take effect under the Fair Minimum Wage Act, which the House passed in 2007 to increase the minimum wage from $5.15 per hour to $7.25 per hour. Texas is one of 31 states that will be affected by the increase in the national minimum wage.“More than 600,000 workers in Texas will receive a raise tomorrow,” Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson said. “Not only will this wage increase benefit minimum wage workers across our state, it will benefit local economies, as workers spend their increased earnings.”The Economic Policy Institute estimates that the increased purchasing power resulting from raising the minimum wage will boost consumer spending by more than $5.5 billion nationwide over the next year.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.21.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded a grant of $721,000 to the City of Dallas, through the Housing Opportunities for People with AIDS (HOPWA) Program. The grant is a permanent supportive housing renewal grant that will continue providing 28 units of permanent housing for post-incarcerated people who are living with HIV/AIDS.“I am pleased that the City of Dallas will receive this funding, so that it can continue to provide comprehensive outreach to offenders who are reentering society,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Reentry programs strengthen our community and make it safer.”Project Reconnect, a City of Dallas program that provides outreach to people who have been incarcerated, will receive the funding.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.16.2009	Legislation would fund programs that retrain displaced workers for health care professionsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Community-Based Health Care Retraining Act, legislation that would fund programs to retrain displaced workers for careers in health care jobs. The Community-Based Health Care Retraining Act would amend the Workforce Investment Act to provide $25 million in funding for qualifying community partnerships to create retraining programs or expand those already in existence.“Displaced workers in the manufacturing, construction and service sectors need jobs, particularly now, during the most severe economic downturn in decades,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “While some industries continue to contract, the health services sector remains robust. Funding programs that retrain workers for the health care professions is not only the right thing to do, it’s the smart thing to do.”Congresswoman Johnson’s bill is a companion bill to S. 1173, which Senator Russell Feingold introduced in June. Congresswoman Johnson also introduced the Community-Based Health Care Retraining Act in the 110th Congress.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.15.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, a former nurse, joined other members of the American Nurses Association at the White House today, where President Barack Obama gave a Rose Garden speech on health care. In the speech, President Obama emphasized the important role nurses play in the delivery of quality health care.“I was honored to join President Obama today at the White House,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The President is making a serious effort to include all voices in our national dialogue about health care reform. I look forward to working with him and with my colleagues in Congress in improving our nation’s health care system.”Congresswoman Johnson served as the chief psychiatric nurse at the VA Medical Center in Dallas and was the first nurse elected to Congress.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.14.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on the “America’s Affordable Health Choices Act”:“The ‘America’s Affordable Health Choices Act’ builds on what works in the current health care system and fixes what is broken. I look forward to working with my colleagues to pass this legislation, which will lower health care costs, give Americans better choices in coverage and ensure that everyone has access to quality care.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.09.2009	Amendment increases Democracy Fund funding by $10 millionWashington, DC – The House today passed H.R. 3081, the State Foreign Operations Appropriations Act, an appropriations bill that funds diplomatic and development agencies for fiscal year 2010. The legislation included an amendment offered by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson to increase funding for the Democracy Fund from $120 million to $130 million. Democracy Fund money is used by the United States Department of State (State Department) for its Human Rights and Democracy Fund and by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for its Office of Democracy and Governance.“My amendment increases funding for programs that promote the most basic of human rights around the world,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The right to freedom of expression and freedom from slavery and servitude are pillars of our democracy. As we work for a more stable and peaceful world, we must share and nurture these ideals with citizens of other countries.“Programs supported by the Democracy Fund have included programs like a women’s leadership conference in Kenya, Rwanda and Uganda and voter education and training in Haiti,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “These programs, though they operate in foreign countries, strengthen our diplomatic and development efforts, thereby increasing the safety and security of Americans.”The State Foreign Operations Appropriations Act includes significant funding to help stabilize and strengthen the key countries of Iraq, Afghanistan, and Pakistan. It also invests in development programs that help bring education systems, food security, and agricultural development assistance, as well as safe drinking water, to underdeveloped communities around the world.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
07.08.2009	Enhancing Small Business Innovation and Research Act passes House 386-41Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted in favor of H.R. 2965, the Enhancing Small Business Innovation and Research Act, legislation that will reauthorize and modernize the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. The bill passed the House by a vote of 386-41.“Dallas is home to a vibrant small business community, and I have worked hard to support it throughout my years in Congress,” said Congresswoman Johnson. “The Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer programs are critical tools for creating new jobs and fueling technological innovation, particularly during a recession. I am proud to vote for legislation to continue and improve both programs.”The SBIR and STTR programs are the federal government’s largest small business research and development programs. Since 1992, SBIR has provided 65,000 grants to small companies engaged in cutting-edge research; yearly, SBIR grants result in a $2.2 billion investment in small businesses, helping 1,500 firms get off the ground.“Here in the Dallas area, we have had a number of SBIR success stories in the agriculture, engineering, and computer industries,” said Jim Berish, Director of the Technology Assistance Center at the North Texas Small Business Development Center. “These businesses have been significant contributors to economic growth in North Texas during the last several years.”In addition to reauthorizing SBIR and STTR, the Enhancing Small Business Innovation and Research Act will:Help more products make it into the marketplace by expanding commercialization efforts; Expand access to SBIR and STTR for rural, veteran-owned, minority-owned and women-owned firms; Allow venture capital-backed small businesses to compete for SBIR grants; and Cut down on red tape in the SBIR and STTR programs.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.26.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement on the American Clean Energy and Security Act, which passed the House tonight by a vote of 219-212:“Though I initially had some reservations about voting for the American Clean Energy and Security Act, I worked with the House leadership to make changes to the bill to better protect North Texas consumers, and I now fully support it. I believe we have a responsibility to our young people, and this legislation will preserve our planet for them by reducing the pollution that causes global warming. It will also revitalize our economy by creating millions of new jobs and increase our national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Change is hard, but the time has come.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.25.2009	National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 passes House 382-22Washington, DC – The House today passed H.R. 2647, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, with an amendment by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. H.R. 2647 is a bill that funds military personnel and military activities of the Department of Defense, for fiscal year 2010. Congresswoman Johnson’s amendment requires the Department of Defense to report on the need for and the availability of mental health care service for servicemembers and their families stationed outside of the United States.“Mental health care is a crucial component of the support we provide our servicemembers,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It is my hope that once we have better information about the mental health care services that is currently available for American troops, we can more effectively implement any programs that are needed. My amendment strengthens our commitment to American troops and to their families.”The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 passed the House by a vote of 382-22, and Congresswoman Johnson’s amendment passed by voice vote.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.19.2009	Congresswoman Johnson offers amendment to fully fund National Science Foundation’s program for Historically Black Colleges and UniversitiesWashington, DC – The House yesterday passed H.R. 2847, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (CJS Appropriations Act), with an amendment by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. The CJS Appropriations Act funds the Department of Commerce, the Department of Justice and federal scientific research and programs, for fiscal year 2010.Congresswoman Johnson’s amendment dedicates $32 million of the $862 million for education activities at the National Science Foundation (NSF) to the Historically Black Colleges and Universities Undergraduate Program (HBCU-UP). The funding designation was recommended by both the Obama Administration and NSF. The amendment passed the House by a vote of 389-35.“HBCU-UP funds are used to encourage African-American students to pursue careers in science, technology, engineering and math, or for initiatives to train highly-qualified math and science teachers,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “These funds are critical in our efforts to enlarge the domestic STEM workforce and to eliminate the disparities that currently exist.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.16.2009	$950,000 grant will fund bus acquisitionWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) will grant $950,000 to Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). DART will use the funding to purchase supplemental DART buses.“This grant will help DART modernize its bus fleet,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Grants like this enable DART to provide better service, which enables more DART riders to get where they need to go more quickly. I am pleased the DOT continues to fund our local mass transit systems.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.12.2009	City of Dallas and Dallas County can access more than $54 million in low-interest financingWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the City of Dallas and Dallas County can access a total of $54,080,000 in low-interest financing under the Recovery Zone Bonds program. Recovery Zone Bonds enable local governments in areas particularly affected by job loss to borrow money for economic development projects.A total of $25 billion in bond authority is available to local governments nationwide under the Recovery Zone Bonds program—$10 billion for Recovery Zone Economic Development Bonds and $15 billion for Recovery Zone Facility Bonds. The City of Dallas can access $15,282,000 and Dallas County can access $6,350,000 in Economic Development Bond financing, which can be used for projects like job training and educational programs. The City of Dallas can access $22,923,000 and Dallas County can access $9,525,000 in Facility Bond financing, which can be used for depreciable capital projects.“Innovative strategies like the Recovery Zone Bonds program are key to our economic recovery, and I’m pleased to announce that the City of Dallas and Dallas County can now access more than $54 million in new low-interest federal loans,” Congresswoman Johnson said. The Recovery Zone Bonds program was created by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery legislation that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February. Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the legislation.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.11.2009	$624,509 will fund project to relocate Specialty Care ClinicsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has released $624,509 to the Dallas VA Medical Center. The Dallas VA Medical Center will use the money to design a project to relocate Specialty Care Clinics. The funding is a portion of the amount allocated to minor project construction under the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act of 2009.“As a former nurse at the Dallas VA Medical Center, I’m very pleased to announce this funding,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This project will enable the Dallas VA to better provide high-quality and accessible health care to North Texas veterans.”Congress more than doubled the Bush Administration request for minor construction at VA hospitals, from $329 million to $742 million, in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act of 2009, with Congresswoman Johnson’s support. The increased funding made the Dallas VA project possible.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.10.2009	Foreign Relations Authorization Act passes House 235-187Washington, DC – The House today passed HR 2410, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, by a vote of 235-187, with two amendments offered by Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson. The Foreign Relations Authorization Act implements President Obama’s foreign policy vision, which emphasizes diplomacy and development in addition to defense.Congresswoman Johnson’s first amendment establishes and provides financial assistance for exchange programs between the United States and Afghanistan for female legislators.“As Afghan leaders work to secure a stable democratic future for their country, the international community must work to ensure that Afghan women can safely exercise their full rights as citizens of Afghanistan,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “My amendment establishes an exchange program between the U.S. and Afghanistan that will not only give female Afghan leaders an opportunity to improve their political and administrative skills, it will enable them to mentor other women interested in public service.”Congresswoman Johnson’s second amendment expresses that it is the sense of Congress that the prevention and elimination of child soldiers should be a foreign policy goal of the United States.“Amnesty International estimates that 250,000 children under the age of 18 are currently fighting in conflicts around the world, and hundreds of thousands of children have died as a direct result of being recruited as soldiers,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The conditions in which child soldiers are forced to live are appalling—child soldiers are often drugged, underfed, subject to beatings, at risk of rape and sexual abuse, and given little or no access to health care. We must work harder—much harder—to end this shameful exploitation of children.”The Foreign Relations Authorization Act authorizes 1,500 new Foreign Service officers and 700 new USAID officers, and it increases the budget of the Peace Corps. It also strengthens efforts to fight drug-related violence in Mexico and the Caribbean. Finally it ensures that the U.S. meets its financial commitments to the UN and other international organizations.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.09.2009	Dallas schools rank first and second on Newsweek’s list of best public high schools in U.S.Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today submitted a statement to the record recognizing Dallas Independent School District’s School for the Talented and Gifted and School for Science and Engineering. The School for the Talented and Gifted and the School for Science and Engineering were ranked first and second, respectively, in Newsweek’s list of the best 1,500 public high schools in the United States. Both schools are part of the Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center, which is located in the 30th Congressional District of Texas.Congresswoman Johnson’s complete statement, which also recognizes W.T. White High School and Woodrow Wilson High School, follows:Madam Speaker, I would like to congratulate the School for the Talented and Gifted and the School for Science and Engineering at Yvonne A. Ewell Townview Center for receiving the extraordinary honor of being ranked as the top two public schools in the nation.Each year, Newsweek ranks the top public high schools out of a possible 27,000, placing these two schools as the top two out of the 1,500 schools listed. For 2009 the Magnet School for the Talented and Gifted ranked number one, with the Magnet School for Engineering and Science ranking number two. I am delighted that these two schools have achieved such a distinction, placing them among the elite public institutions in this country.Additionally, I would like to recognize W. T. White High School which ranked 171st and Woodrow Wilson High School which ranked 637th. These rankings put all of these high schools in the top 6 percent of all public secondary schools in the country.Located in my district of Dallas, Texas, Townview Magnet is one of the most diverse schools in the state, with minorities representing over half of the student population. Given the diverse nature of the City of Dallas itself, and the increased globalization of most industries, the students attending these two schools will have the opportunity not only to impact the Dallas area, but on a global scale.This marks the third time in 4 years that the School for the Talented and Gifted has been ranked number one in the nation. This unveiling marks the second time that the School of Engineering and Science has been ranked second nationally, the other year being in 2007.This honor shows the values of a good educational environment, as many of the students attending these two schools will have opportunities to be the future leaders of this country. This honor will serve as an inspiration to the faculty, staff and students of Townview Magnet School to maintain a high level of work. I extend my appreciation for the hard work of everyone involved in achieving this honor, and lend my support to the future success of Townview.Madam Speaker, again, I congratulate the students, teachers, principals and parents of Townview Magnet School for the Talented and Gifted and the Magnet School for Science and Engineering on this honor.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.07.2009	Chair of House Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment hears stories of coal ash spill from Kingston residentsKingston, TN – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held a townhall meeting today at the Kingston Community Center in Kingston, TN. During the meeting, Congresswoman Johnson heard personal stories from residents of Kingston who have been affected by the December 2008 coal ash spill. Congresswoman Johnson is Chair of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, which has jurisdiction over water conservation, water infrastructure, pollution control and hazardous waste cleanup.Kingston Mayor Troy Beets and Roane County Executive Mike Farmer opened the meeting with brief comments welcoming the Congresswoman to Kingston. A representative from the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA), Anda Ray, and two from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Beverly Bannister and Leo Francendese, also gave presentations and took questions from attendees.“In Washington, we have many opportunities to hear from experts,” Congresswoman Johnson said in her opening statement. “However, we don’t often have the chance to hear from regular folk about the issues that affect their lives. So it was important for me to come to Tennessee to meet with you, to hear your stories, to see firsthand the damage caused by the coal ash spill, and to see what still needs to be done.”“Please rest assured that I will take your experiences back with me to Washington to share with my Congressional colleagues,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “And please trust me that I will ensure that strong oversight of federal entities like TVA and EPA is a priority for my subcommittee. We will make sure that they make right what never should have happened in the first place.”Congressman Lincoln Davis, who represents the 4th District of Tennessee, which includes Kingston, was unable to attend the townhall due to a prior commitment, but he thanked the Congresswoman for her visit.“I am thankful for leaders like Chairwoman Johnson for their efforts to keep this issue on the minds of all Americans, and pleased she could be here this week,” Congressman Davis said. “With the EPA taking lead agency over this spill, I am hopeful we will take great strides to see this issue addressed, and I will continue my work and advocacy to see that the residents surrounding TVA’s facility are made whole.”On March 31, Congresswoman Johnson held a hearing on the Kingston coal ash spill, “The Tennessee Valley Authority's Kingston Ash Slide: Potential Water Quality Impacts of Coal Combustion Waste Storage.” On April 30, she held a more general hearing on how coal combustion waste can affect nearby waterways, “Coal Combustion Waste Storage and Water Quality.” Finally, on June 3, Congresswoman Johnson held a hearing on President Obama’s budget request and agency priorities for fiscal year 2010, which included testimony from the Tennessee Valley Authority.Congressman Davis testified before the subcommittee during the March 31 hearing, emphasizing the necessity of cleaning up the site of the spill and making the residents whole again.Congresswoman Johnson plans more hearings on the issue of coal ash in the near future.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.03.2009	Susan G. Komen for the Cure is based in DallasWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today submitted the following statement for the record in support of H. Con. Res. 109, in recognition of the 20th anniversary of the Susan G. Komen National Race for the Cure in Washington, DC, which has recently been renamed the Susan G. Komen Global Race for the Cure. Susan G. Komen for the Cure is based in Dallas, and the first Race for the Cure was held in Dallas in 1983.Madam Speaker, I rise today to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure in the Nation’s Capital and its transition, on June 6, 2009, to the Susan G. Komen Global Race for the Cure. With its headquarters located within my Congressional District in Dallas, Susan G. Komen for the Cure reaches out both nationally and globally to women affected by breast cancer. I am pleased to honor the foundation today as they celebrate their achievements and continue to move forward in creating a world without breast cancer.Susan G. Komen for the Cure was founded by Nancy G. Brinker in 1982 on the basis of fulfilling a promise she made to her sister, Susan G. Komen. Her promise was to end breast cancer forever. Since its establishment, Susan G. Komen has raised $1.2 billion from events like the Race for the Cure, contributing the largest source of non-profit funds dedicated to fighting breast cancer. As a result, there have been several advances in the fight against breast cancer. There is now increased government funding in cancer research, prevention, and funding, and an increased chance of survival due to earlier detection.Over the next ten years, Susan G. Komen for the Cure will continue to contribute to the fight against breast cancer. The foundation plans to invest an additional $2 billion to help find a cure for breast cancer and better the lives of women all across the world. As a former nurse, I am honored to congratulate them on their 20th anniversary of the Race for the Cure in the Nation’s capital, as well as their transition to a global organization.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
06.03.2009	TIFIA of 2009 would increase funding amounts and flexibility for popular transportation credit programWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson introduced H.R. 2663, the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) of 2009, last night. The legislation would increase the share of overall project cost that can come from the TIFIA program, from 33 percent to 49 percent of the anticipated eligible project cost, and authorizes $285 million in budget authority per year over the life of the bill.The TIFIA program, which was established by the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 1998, provides credit assistance to eligible applicants for infrastructure projects of regional or national significance. The costs of eligible projects may not be less than $50 million. “The TIFIA program works,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Since 1998, $4.8 billion in TIFIA assistance has leveraged more than $18.6 billion in transportation project investments, and every single penny that the federal government has loaned through the TIFIA program has been repaid. In today’s constrained budget environment, increasing the amount of funding available to eligible projects makes sense. More infrastructure projects can be started quickly.”The Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act of 2009 would also modify the existing non-subordination clause so that it would not apply to debt financing that is contemplated at the time that the TIFIA loan or line of credit is agreed to.Paying Our Way: A New Framework for Transportation Financing, the Final Report released by the National Surface Transportation Infrastructure Financing Commission in February, recommended a reauthorization of TIFIA, but with more credit capacity and flexibility.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.28.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson, a senior member of the House Committee on Science and Technology, today released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of General Charles Bolden as Administrator of NASA:“General Charles Bolden served his country for more than three decades in the United States Marine Corps and for more than a decade in the NASA Astronaut Corps. He is the ideal choice for NASA Administrator, and I know he will bring intelligence, energy and leadership to an agency that is at the forefront of scientific discovery.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.27.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on President Obama’s nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court of the United States:“I am extremely pleased with President Obama’s nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to serve on the U.S. Supreme Court. In her three-decade career in the law, Judge Sotomayor has shown an unwavering commitment to justice and a great respect for the values on which our nation was founded.“Prior to being appointed to the District Court for the Southern District of New York by President George H.W. Bush, Judge Sotomayor developed expertise in criminal law as an Assistant District Attorney in Manhattan and in civil law as a corporate litigator in private practice. President Clinton recognized Judge Sotomayor’s intellectual prowess and integrity by promoting her to the Second Circuit. Indeed, Judge Sotomayor offers more federal judicial experience to the Supreme Court than any justice in the past hundred years, and more overall judicial experience than any justice in the past seventy.“Judge Sonia Sotomayor will bring a keen intelligence, a deep understanding of the real world and an unparalleled breadth of experience to the Supreme Court, and I look forward to her confirmation by the Senate.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.22.2009	DART will use money for light rail extensionWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has released $35,990,660 in funding to Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). The money, part of the 2009 appropriations to DART, will fund a 21-mile, two-segment extension of DART’s Green Line and the building of an operating facility for vehicle maintenance and storage.Congresswoman Johnson also announced that Dallas Love Field Airport will receive a $4,617,853 grant from the Transportation Department. Love Field will use the money for runway rehabilitation and to replace emergency vehicles.“I am pleased to announce today more than $40 million in transportation funding for the Metroplex,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The improvements made to DART’s Green Line and to Love Field will benefit North Texans and the North Texas economy.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.21.2009	Washington, DC – Today, during debate on H.R. 915, Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson urged the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to grant priority consideration to Dallas Love Field Airport for a project that would link the airport to the Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) system. H.R. 915, the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2009, provides for the creation of an Intermodal Ground Access Project Pilot Program at no more than five airports nationwide. In a colloquy with House Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman James L. Oberstar, Congresswoman Johnson urged the FAA to consider Love Field as one of the selected airports.The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2009, which today passed the House by a vote of 277-136, authorizes $70 billion for the FAA for FY 2009 through FY 2012. The historic funding levels will provide the FAA with the funding required to modernize the nation’s air traffic control system and improve airport infrastructure.The legislation also includes extensive safety provisions. It increases the number of aviation safety inspectors by more than one-third and requires the FAA to contract with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study on pilot fatigue and improve its flight and duty time requirements for pilots in accordance with the results of the study. It also creates an independent Aviation Safety Whistleblower Investigation Office within the FAA and mandates a two-year cooling-off period after inspectors leave FAA, during which they cannot work for the airline they were responsible for overseeing. Congresswoman Johnson pushed for the inclusion of the “cooling-off period” provision when the bill was in committee, after introducing similar stand-alone legislation in the 110th Congress.Finally, the FAA Reauthorization Act implements a number of consumer protections, including requiring airlines and airports to have emergency contingency plans for long onboard tarmac delays, which account for the provision of food, water, clean restrooms and medical care for passengers. The U.S. Department of Transportation can fine airlines and airports that fail to develop or comply with these plans.Please see below for the full text of Congresswoman Johnson’s colloquy with Chairman Oberstar:Ms. Johnson: I rise to engage the Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in a brief colloquy regarding Section 114 of this legislation. I want to thank you, Aviation Subcommittee Chairman Costello and Ranking Member Petri for your work on this bill, particularly in the area of intermodalism as outlined in Section 114 of the bill. Expansion of passenger facility charge (PFC) eligibility to include Intermodal Ground Access Projects at Airports is of utmost importance to my congressional district. This Committee cares deeply about intermodalism and I care deeply about intermodalism. Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) has been a leader in promoting intermodalism throughout the North Texas region. The City of Dallas plans to construct an intermodal connector that will provide passengers with an easy connection with the Dallas Love Field Airport. I respectfully ask the distinguished Chairman to work with me to ensure that Dallas Love Field Airport receives priority consideration for the program outlined in Section 114 of the bill. Mr. Oberstar: I want to thank the gentlewoman Texas (Ms. Johnson) for bringing this project to the Committee’s attention. For the reasons outlined by my distinguished colleague, Dallas Love Field is an example of the type of project we envisioned when crafting section 114. I believe Dallas Love Field seems well suited to participate in the pilot project and would urge the FAA to give full and fair consideration to its application. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.21.2009	Kuwaitis elected women to national office for the first time in May 16 electionWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced a resolution honoring the historic election to the Kuwait parliament on May 16, 2009, of four female candidates: Dr. Massouma al-Mubarak, Dr. Rola Dashti, Dr. Salwa al-Jassar, and Dr. Aseel al-Awadhi. Women in Kuwait received the right to vote and run for office in 2005, and the recent election marks the first time that women were elected to national office in the nation’s history.“I applaud the accomplishments of these four women,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I commend their desire to serve their country and the determination and grit they showed during the campaign season. Their historic victories mark a turning point in Kuwaiti politics.”Dr. al-Mubarak was appointed as Kuwait’s first female cabinet member in 2005, and Dr. Dashti was the first woman elected to chair the Kuwait Economic Society, an NGO founded in 1970. Both Dr. al-Jassar and Dr. al-Awadhi are professors at Kuwait University.Please see below for the full text of the resolution:RESOLUTIONRecognizing and honoring the historic election of women to the Kuwait parliament and its implications for gender equality in the regionWhereas four women lawmakers won parliamentary seats for the first time in Kuwait’s general elections on May 16th, 2009, marking an historic event for the country, the region, and for women’s rights. Whereas the women elected to parliament in this historic election include Dr. Massouma al-Mubarak, Dr. Rola Dashti, Dr. Salwa al-Jassar, and Dr. Aseel al-Awadhi.Whereas Dr. Massouma al-Mubarak was also appointed as the country’s first female cabinet member in 2005 and is a long-time advocate in the field of women’s rights in Kuwait. Whereas Dr. Rola Dashti is the 2005 winner of the King Hussein Humanitarian Award, the first woman elected to chair the Kuwaiti Economic Society, and an advocate for social equality and a larger role for women in public life.Whereas Dr. Salwa al-Jassar is an education professor at Kuwait University and chair of the Women’s Empowerment Center.Whereas Dr. Aseel al-Awadhi is a philosophy professor at Kuwait University and stressed the importance of outreach to the youth in Kuwait throughout her campaign. Whereas of the 210 candidates running for the 50 parliament seats, 16 of these were women.Whereas women received the right to vote and run for office in 2005 and these elections represent only the third time that women have participated in the political process, signifying dramatic progress for women’s rights in only four years since receiving suffrage. Whereas these results signify support of women’s role in government and politics and a move towards equal rights for women, adding a new precedent to Kuwait’s democratic traditions.Whereas the four women elected did so without formal organized party support or a quota-based system for seats in parliament, making this a significant achievement for democracy in the region. Whereas these candidates ran for office and women exercised their right to vote in the face of conservative backlash and calls for a boycott of women candidates.Whereas the political process and subsequent election of women to the parliament were conducted in a peaceful and transparent manner. Now, therefore, be itResolved, That the House of Representatives—(1) recognizes and honors the historic election of women to the Kuwait parliament and its implications for gender equality in the region and(2) honors those who fought for women’s suffrage and advocated for the advancement of the status of women in Kuwait.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.21.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Home Buying Credit Expansion Act, which will make all homebuyers eligible for the tax credit currently available to first-time homebuyers.“Extending the first-time homebuyer tax credit to all homebuyers will provide tax relief to Americans who are currently able to purchase homes,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It will also help to stabilize, stimulate and add confidence to the troubled housing market.”The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery legislation that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February, extended the first-time homebuyer tax credit through November 2009 and increased the amount of the credit to $8,000. Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the economic recovery legislation.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.15.2009	Funding will be used for 2.6 mile road in Tarrant CountyWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) will receive a $1 million grant from the Federal Highway Administration for the construction of a 2.6 mile project in Tarrant County. The project will consist of a six-lane road from State Highway 114 to Dove Road and a four-lane road from Dove Road to Randol Mill Road. The funding was allocated by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA), the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February. Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for ARRA.“This project will incorporate cutting-edge transportation technology that will yield a stronger and safer road, which thousands of North Texans rely on for travel each day,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am delighted to see our state’s share of economic recovery funding utilized to bolster our region's infrastructure and put people to work at such an expeditious rate. I commend Secretary LaHood and his team for the outstanding job they are doing in getting funds out the door and allocated quickly.”Construction on the project is expected to begin in fall of 2009.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.14.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement about the status of funding for Dallas Independent School District (ISD) Learning Centers and Magnet Schools:“I remain greatly concerned about the status of funding for Dallas ISD Learning Centers and Magnet Schools. Over the past weeks, I’ve been in close contact with the Department of Education, the Texas Education Agency (TEA) and Superintendent Michael Hinojosa regarding potential funding cuts within the Magnet Schools and Learning Centers. In particular, there are outstanding questions as to whether or not the Learning Center programs may gain a waiver from being required to meet comparable funding requirements. “All Title I schools must meet comparability requirements in order to receive Title I funding. If Dallas ISD is found to be in violation it could potentially lose Title I funding, which is approximately $105 million. “The Department of Education and the Texas Education Agency are closely reviewing all of Dallas ISD’s comparability numbers in order to determine what, if any, funding cuts need to be made. Dallas ISD has been working hard to get TEA all the necessary data, but it is my understanding from TEA and the Department of Education that there is still outstanding data that it needs to review. The Department of Education will not be able to give a determination until they can review all of this information.“Based on these circumstances, I have called on Dallas ISD Board of Trustees President Jack Lowe to delay tonight’s vote on the budgetary measures that will result in funding and staff cuts for the Learning Centers and Magnets. While I understand the need to plan for next year and reposition staff, I also believe that final determinations from TEA and the Department of Education are integral to this funding decision. We should not make cuts to these schools and programs until we know what is required under law. I have been assured that the Department of Education will make a prompt determination once it has the necessary data, so I do not advocate a lengthy delay to this vote. “It is my hope that the Board of Trustees will take this under advisement, and I will continue to do my part in working with the Department of Education to receive an answer on what funding cuts may be necessary in a timely manner. I will continue to work with Dallas ISD to get the best possible result for our schools.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.14.2009	21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act passes House 275-155Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 2187, the 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act. H.R. 2187 authorizes $6.4 billion for fiscal year 2010 for the modernization, renovation and repair of school facilities, guaranteeing each district a minimum of $5,000. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 275-155.“Students can’t reach their full potential in inadequate school facilities,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Simple factors like lighting, noise and poor air quality can have a serious effect on student learning gains and behavior. This legislation will make our schools safer, healthier and more conducive to learning for our young people. It will also make them more energy-efficient, putting people to work in the process.”School districts located or partially located in the 30th District of Texas will receive the following amounts of funding: School District Amount Cedar Hill ISD $489,000 Dallas ISD $38,532,000 Desoto ISD $783,000 Duncanville ISD $1,166,000 Ferris ISD $154,000 Irving ISD $4,228,000 Lancaster ISD $509,000 Mesquite ISD $3,619,000 Total $49,480,000 The 21st Century Green High-Performing Public School Facilities Act will also authorize an additional $600 million over six years for public schools that were damaged by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.13.2009	Booker T. Washington High School students named 2009 winnersWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson announced the winners of the 2009 Congressional Art Competition in the 30th Congressional District of Texas on Friday, May 8. High school students from 10 high schools in the 30th District submitted a total of 51 entries. All three winners attend Booker T. Washington High School.Rachel Suggs received first place with her entry, “Under the Table.” Macey Loureior (“Light”) and Angelica Valdez (“If The Shoe Fits, Put It On”) received second and third place, respectively.“I congratulate Ms. Suggs, Ms. Loureior and Ms. Valdez for their winning entries, and I thank everyone who participated in this year’s competition,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am proud to represent a District with so many talented and engaged young artists.”Congresswoman Johnson announced the awards at a reception at the South Dallas Cultural Center. Each winner received a savings bond from American National Bank of Dallas, and Suggs also received three round-trip tickets to Washington, DC, from Southwest Airlines. Suggs will participate in the Annual National Art Reception on June 24.Judges for the contest were Vicki Meek, Managing Director, South Dallas Cultural Center; Emily Cheek, McKinney Avenue Contemporary Gallery; local artist Admiral James Ellison; and Deborah Bigbie of Bigbie Designs.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.12.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s resolution honoring National Nurses Week, which she introduced February 25, today passed the House by voice vote. The resolution, H. Res. 192, recognizes National Nurses Week, which began on May 6 and ends today. Congresswoman Johnson began her career as a registered nurse, and she was the first nurse elected to the U.S. Congress.The full text of the resolution is below:RESOLUTIONRecognizing National Nurses Week on May 6 through May 12, 2009. Whereas since 1999, National Nurses Week is celebrated annually from May 6, also known as National Recognition Day for Nurses, through May 12, the birthday of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing; Whereas National Nurses Week is a time of year to reflect on the important contributions that nurses make to provide safe, high-quality healthcare; Whereas nurses are known to be patient advocates, acting fearlessly to protect the lives of those under their care; Whereas nurses represent the largest single component of the healthcare profession, with an estimated population of 2,900,000 registered nurses in the United States; Whereas nurses are experienced researchers, and their work encompasses a wide scope of scientific inquiry including clinical research, health systems and outcomes research, and nursing education research; Whereas nurses provide culturally and ethnically competent care and are increasingly being educated to be sensitive to regional and community customs of persons needing care; Whereas nurses are best positioned to provide leadership to eliminate healthcare disparities that exist in our Nation; Whereas nurses help inform and educate the public to improve the practice of all nurses and, more importantly, the health and safety of the patients they care for; Whereas the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) released preliminary survey data showing that enrollment in entry-level baccalaureate nursing programs increased by only 2 percent from 2007 to 2008, and though this marks the eighth consecutive year of enrollment growth, the annual increase in student capacity in 4-year nursing programs has declined sharply since 2003 when enrollment was up by 16.6 percent; Whereas United States nursing programs were forced to reject almost 100,000 qualified applications to nursing programs according to the National League for Nursing's most recent survey of all prelicensure nursing programs; Whereas the nationwide nursing shortage has caused dedicated nurses to work longer hours and care for more acutely ill patients; Whereas nurse educators work on average more than 57 hours per week in order to ensure that each and every new registered nurse receives an excellent education, advancing excellence among the next generation of nurses; Whereas nurses are strong allies to Congress as they help inform, educate, and work closely with legislators to improve the education, retention, recruitment, and practice of all nurses and, more importantly, the health and safety of the patients they care for; and Whereas increased Federal and State support is needed to enhance existing programs and create new programs to educate nursing students at all levels, to increase the number of faculty members to educate nursing students, to create clinical sites and have the appropriately prepared nurses to teach and train at those sites, to create educational opportunities to retain nurses in the profession, and to educate and train more nurse research scientists who can discover new nursing care models to improve the health status of the Nation's diverse population: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives--(1) recognizes the significant contributions of nurses to the healthcare system of the United States;(2) supports the goals and ideals of National Nurses Week, as founded by the American Nurses Association; and(3) encourages the people of the United States to observe National Nurses Week with appropriate recognition, ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate the importance of nurses to the everyday lives of patients.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.07.2009	Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009 passes House 300-114Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted in favor of H.R. 1728, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2009, bipartisan legislation that will bring common sense reform to mortgage lending practices and provide consumers with stronger protections. The bill passed the House by a vote of 300-114.“In the United States, a family receives a foreclosure notice every 13 seconds,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Predatory and irresponsible mortgage loan practices played a major role in the foreclosure crisis. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act will bring much-needed reforms to mortgage lending, helping to put our economy back on a stable foundation. It will ensure that the only mortgages that borrowers receive are ones that they can afford.”The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act establishes a federal standard for all home loans—institutions must ensure that borrowers have a “reasonable ability to repay” mortgages, based on income, credit history, indebtedness and other factors. It also prohibits financial incentives for subprime loans that encourage lenders to steer borrowers into more costly loans.The legislation also:• Brings accountability to the secondary market for home loans;• Holds creditors responsible for the loans they originate;• Imposes penalties for irresponsible lending;• Creates stronger consumer protections for high-cost mortgages;• Requires additional disclosures for consumers regarding mortgage loans;• Protects tenants who rent homes that go into foreclosure;• Creates an Office of Housing Counseling within the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; and• Provides for legal assistance to homeowners and tenants facing foreclosure###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.07.2009	DART will receive $78.4 million a year ahead of scheduleWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) will receive $78.4 million in federal money a year ahead of schedule. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) provided for expediting the funds, which DART would otherwise have received in Fiscal Year 2010 as part of its “full funding grant agreement” with the Federal Transit Administration.“The expedited release of $78.4 million will enable DART to construct the new Green Line more quickly, expanding the reach of light rail transit in Dallas,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The construction of the Green Line will put more people to work, and northwest and southeast Dallas County will have another transit option much sooner than we had hoped.”Upon completion, the Green Line will link Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, Farmers Branch, Carrollton, Love Field and Downtown Dallas with Fair Park and Pleasant Grove. The expansion will add approximately 60,000 daily riders to the system.Congress passed and President Obama signed ARRA into law in February. Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the economic recovery package.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.06.2009	More than 3,500 constituents join Congresswoman on District 30 callWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson held a telephone townhall for constituents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas tonight. More than 3,500 constituents participated in the telephone townhall, which took place from 7:10 PM to 8:10 PM CST, and constituents were able to participate simply by picking up their phones when they rang. During the call, Congresswoman Johnson discussed both national issues and issues specific to District 30.A number of call participants were concerned about the high cost of health care. Congresswoman Johnson discussed her support of universal health care coverage.“We are working now on a health care plan in the House,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I support accessible, affordable health care coverage for everyone. Right now, health care coverage is expensive, and we are trying to get a handle on that cost.“If you have health insurance you like, I want you to be able to keep it,” she continued. “If you don’t have coverage, I want you to be able to get it.”Congresswoman Johnson answered several questions about education, clarifying that many education issues are decided at the state and local level.“All of us are concerned about the quality of education in our country,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “We need to provide more resources to prepare teachers, and we need smaller classrooms so that students are engaged. We also need to direct more students to the science, math and engineering fields, because so many jobs of the future are there.”Congresswoman Johnson also responded to a constituent’s question about the practices of credit card companies.“We are very aware of the abuse that some credit cardholders experience, and we passed legislation last week on credit card reform,” she said, referring to H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights. "Naturally, the credit card companies didn’t like it. The legislation is in the Senate, and I hope we can get it out of the Senate and signed into law.”Finally, the Congresswoman discussed the economic crisis and the burdens everyday Americans are facing.“We are sensitive to the middle class carrying the largest burden over the past eight years,” she said.Congresswoman Johnson stressed throughout the call that constituents who need help with specific problems should contact a caseworker at her Dallas office by calling (214) 922-8885.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.04.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement in recognition of Cinco de Mayo, which is celebrated tomorrow:“Today, we commemorate an important day in Mexican history, a day when the Mexican army triumphed over an invading power. We also use today as an opportunity to recognize the vital economic, social, political and cultural contributions to our country that Mexican-Americans have made and continue to make. I salute the Mexican Americans in my District 30 and those who will celebrate this day with them. I will continue to work hard on behalf of my diverse and dynamic constituency.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
05.01.2009	Texas-Style Hot Sauce V. Denver TamalesWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson of Dallas, TX, and Congresswoman Diana DeGette of Denver, CO, today made a friendly wager on the upcoming Dallas-Denver Western Conference Semifinals series in the NBA Playoffs.Congresswoman Johnson is backing the Dallas Mavericks, while Congresswoman DeGette supports her local team, the Denver Nuggets. If the Dallas Mavericks win, Congresswoman DeGette will give Congresswoman Johnson tamales, a Denver specialty. If the Denver Nuggets win, Congresswoman Johnson will give Congresswoman DeGette five bottles of her famous Texas-style hot sauce.“The Mavericks boast Dirk Nowitzki, the NBA’s MVP in the 2006-2007 season, and Jason Kidd, one of the best players of his generation,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Jason Terry is one of the best guards in the NBA and won the sixth man award this year. He leads a deep bench on a team with a lot of playoff experience. We’ll draw on that experience in this series. I think we’re going to surprise everyone and show them what happens when a hard-working team pulls together.”“The Denver Nuggets are on fire this year – they are as hot as the Texas-style sauce my friend, Eddie Bernice, is betting,” said Congresswoman DeGette. “I am so confident the Denver Nuggets will prevail, I am willing to bet our famous tamales. With this being the best Denver Nuggets team in history, I am looking forward to adding some hot sauce to my tamales.” The Dallas Mavericks best of seven series with the Denver Nuggets begins Sunday, May 3, at 3:30 PM EST.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.30.2009	Project partially funded by American Recovery and Reinvestment ActWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today highlighted the Woodall Rodgers Deck Park, a project that was partially funded with money allocated by the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA), the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February. Congresswoman Johnson was the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for ARRA.“The Woodall Rodgers Deck Park will rejuvenate a key section of Dallas and play a significant role in the development of the Dallas Arts District,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “It will link Downtown Dallas and Uptown Dallas with an aesthetically-pleasing and environmentally-friendly new landmark. I am pleased that economic recovery funds will enable TxDOT to begin construction on the Woodall Rodgers Deck Park in September, putting North Texans to work in the process.”More information about the Woodall Rodgers Deck Park can be found at www.woodallrodgerspark.org. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.30.2009	House passes Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights 357-70Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted in favor of H.R. 627, the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 357-70.“Credit card companies have been taking advantage of cardholders with misleading and deceptive practices,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights levels the playing field between credit card issuers and cardholders and brings much-needed oversight to the credit card industry.“This legislation protects consumers from excessive fees and incomprehensible agreements, and it bans retroactive interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing and due date gimmicks,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “It also prevents credit card companies from issuing credit cards to minors under the age of 18. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights is bipartisan, common-sense legislation that is long overdue.”The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights:• Ends unfair, arbitrary interest rate agreements;• Bans excessive “over-the-limit” fees;• Ends unfair penalties for cardholders who pay on time;• Requires fair allocation of consumer payments, preventing the practice of applying payments to lowest interest rate balances first;• Requires companies to mail billing statements 21 calendar days before the due date, up from the current requirement of 14 days;• Prevents companies from using misleading terms and damaging consumers’ credit ratings;• Protects vulnerable consumers from high-fee subprime credit cards;• Bars issuing credit cards to minors; and• Requires better data collection from credit card industryThe House of Representatives passed a bill with similar provisions in the 110th Congress by a vote of 312-112.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.29.2009	Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act passes House 249-175Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 249-175. Under current law, the federal government can only investigate hate crimes motivated by the victim’s race, color, religion or national origin. The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act closes the gap in existing hate crimes law by extending federal jurisdiction to hate crimes motivated by the victim’s actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or disability, and provides assistance to state and local law enforcement to streamline the investigation and prosecution of hate crimes. It also authorizes the U.S. Attorney General to make grants to state and local law enforcement agencies that have incurred extraordinary expenses associated with the investigation and prosecution of hate crimes. “I was proud to vote for the bipartisan Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Local law enforcement officers have called on Congress to give them the support they need to prosecute and deter violent hate crimes. With this vote, we in the House of Representatives answer their call and reaffirm that crimes motivated by hatred and bigotry have no place in our society.”More than 118,000 hate crimes have been documented by the FBI since 1991, and more than 7,624 hate crimes were committed in 2007 alone. The Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes prevention Act is supported by more than 300 law enforcement, religious, civil rights, disability and other organizations, including the International Association of Chiefs of Police, the National Sheriffs’ Association, the Police Foundation and the National District Attorneys Association.Congresswoman Johnson plans to introduce legislation that would extend hate crimes protection to people who are homeless. Her statement in support of the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act, which includes a discussion of the need for protection of homeless individuals, follows:I rise today in support of H.R. 1913, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act. I have been a strong supporter of increased law enforcement support and protections against hate crimes for many years, and today’s vote represents a historic step forward in recognizing and fighting against violent bias-motivated crimes. Each year there are thousands of individuals who are targets of violent crime based solely on their appearance, means, or lifestyle. These hate crimes are not only meant to physically harm the victim, but degrade all individuals of similar identity and instill a pervasive sense of fear amongst that community. While each and every violent crime is traumatic, hate crimes are not only devastating for the victim and their family, but for all individuals who identify with the victim, whether or not they actually knew that person.Hate crimes are more prevalent than many may realize. Despite significant underreporting, more than 100,000 hate crimes have been reported since 1991. In addition, the number of hate groups that exist within our country continues to rise; espousing a message of hatred and often plans of targeted violence. This legislation will allow for much needed federal assistance in the prevention and prosecution of hate crimes, and provide money to states to develop hate crimes prevention programs. No American deserves to feel a threat to their physical safety simply because of who they are or how they look.While I strongly support the passage of this legislation, I do believe there is a strong need to include homeless individuals into this bill. Often nameless and faceless victims of violence, homeless individuals are amongst the highest targeted groups for hate violence. According to statistics collected by the National Coalition for the Homeless, there have been 774 violent acts perpetrated against homeless individuals since 1999. These attacks occurred in 235 cities throughout our country, in 45 states, and in one territory. 217 of these attacks resulted in death ranging from these individuals suffering severe beatings to being set on fire. Many of these incidents were committed by groups targeting the homeless, and some were even video-taped for future sale and amusement.It is important that we recognize these acts as hate crimes at a federal level. Many states are currently considering the recognition of these violent acts as hate crimes, with Maryland having already done so. We cannot continue to ignore the plight of this group, and the fear and violence that have been experienced by scores of homeless individuals.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.28.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced a resolution honoring Workers’ Memorial Day. Workers’ Memorial Day is observed each year on April 28 to commemorate workers who have been killed or injured on the job.“Today, we commemorate the millions of workers worldwide who have been killed or injured while doing their jobs,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “We also recommit ourselves to workplace safety. Each year, more than 5,500 Americans are killed at the workplace—an average of 16 each day—and millions more experience occupational injuries and illnesses.”Congresswoman Johnson also introduced a resolution honoring Workers’ Memorial Day in the 110th Congress.Please see below for the full text of the resolution.RESOLUTIONSupporting the goals and ideals of Workers’ Memorial Day in order to honor and remember the workers who have been killed or injured in the workplace.Whereas, each year, more than 5,500 workers are killed due to workplace-related injuries in the United States, and more than 2,000,000 workers across the world die of workplace-related accidents and diseases;Whereas, each day, an average of 16 workers are killed due to workplace injuries in the United States;Whereas there are more than 4,000,000 occupational injuries and illnesses in the United States annually;Whereas tens of thousands of Americans with workplace injuries or illness become permanently disabled;Whereas more people are killed worldwide each year at work than in wars;Whereas observing Workers’ Memorial Day allows us to honor and remember victims of workplace injuries and disease; andWhereas observing Workers’ Memorial Day reminds us of the need to strive for better worker safety and health protections: Now, therefore, be it1 Resolved, That the House of Representatives—2 (1) supports the goals and ideals of Workers3 Memorial Day to honor and remember workers who4 have been killed or injured in the workplace;5 (2) recognizes the importance of worker health6 and safety standards;7 (3) encourages the Occupational Safety and8 Health Administration, industries, employers and9 employees to support activities aimed at increasing10 awareness of the importance of preventing illness,11 injury, and death in the workplace; and12 (4) calls upon the people of the United States13 to observe such a day with appropriate ceremonies14 and respect.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.23.2009	Bill will make financial education more available to newly-naturalized American citizensWashington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Naturalized Citizens Assistance Act, a bill that will amend the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 by adding newly-naturalized citizens to the list of participants eligible for financial education programs offered under the law. The bill will be referred to the House Committee on Financial Services and the House Committee on Homeland Security.“Approximately 630,000 people become legally naturalized American citizens each year,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This bill will help these recently-naturalized Americans become financially literate by expanding their opportunities to access comprehensive financial education.”A financial literacy education program under the Naturalized Citizens Assistance Act would include instruction on banking, retirement savings, credit, insurance, income taxes, long-term financial planning, predatory lending, identity theft and other financial abuse schemes. Education programs will be open to people who have been naturalized citizens for a year or less.April is National Financial Literacy Month. Earlier this month, Congresswoman Johnson was named the 2009 Federal Legislator of the Year by Jump$tart, a national organization that works to improve the personal financial literacy of students in kindergarten through college.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.21.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson released the following statement in recognition of Earth Day, which is observed tomorrow, April 22:“Today, we recognize Earth Day and the important work that the environmental movement has done to raise awareness of threats to the environment and to fight environmental degradation. In the coming year, we will maintain our commitment to the environment, creating clean energy jobs and working to safeguard our drinking and recreational waters.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.20.2009	More than 900 North Texans attend workshopsDallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today hosted two economic recovery workshops in Dallas. The first workshop, the “Roadmap to Recovery” workshop, was designed to educate North Texans on how to access economic recovery funding. Representatives of financial organizations and federal and state agencies discussed funding opportunities and answered attendees’ questions. The second workshop, the “EBJ Highway to Recovery” workshop, was targeted to female, minority and veteran small business owners and focused on state transportation economic recovery projects. More than 900 North Texans attended the workshops.“I was the only member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the economic recovery package,” Congresswoman Johnson said during the first workshop. “I held this one-stop workshop to educate my constituents on how to apply for and receive federal funding.”The “Roadmap to Recovery” workshop had more than 750 attendees and was composed of three panels of speakers and a question-and-answer session. John Podvin, an attorney at Haynes and Boone, LLP, discussed the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) and the newly-created Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP). Other panelists included representatives of the Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas, the Dallas Small Business Development Center and the following federal agencies:• Internal Revenue Service• Taxpayer Advocate Service• Texas Department of Transportation• U.S. Department of Health & Human Services• U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development• U.S. Department of Labor• U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs• U.S. Environmental Protection Agency• U.S. General Services Administration• U.S. Small Business Administration• U.S. Social Security AdministrationDallas Mayor Tom Leppert also spoke at the first workshop.At the “EBJ Highway to Recovery” workshop, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) provided a 45-minute overview of economic recovery projects in North Texas, and TxDOT and the North Texas Tollway Authority (NTTA) held one-on-one sessions with workshop participants. Approximately 200 North Texans attended the workshop.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.18.2009	Dallas, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today brought together international activists and authorities on peace-building and peace-keeping for her annual peace conference. The peace conference, themed “Women’s Unique Perspectives on Waging Peace,” was held at Thanks-giving Square in downtown Dallas. Congresswoman Johnson hosts the peace conference each year as part of her peace initiative, A World of Women for World Peace. More than 100 people attended the event.“It is my true belief that women can bring about non-violent conflict resolution, through our unique bonds of friendship, sisterhood and motherhood,” Congresswoman Johnson said during her opening remarks.The panelists included Aisha Al–Adawiya of KARAMAH: Muslim Women Lawyers for Human Rights and founder of Women in Islam; Dr. Qudsia Mirza, Visiting Professor of Law at the University of Cincinnati; Karen Blessen of MasterPEACE: Young Artists Making a Kinder World; Tatiana Androsov, President and Executive Director of Thanks-giving Square; and Lucy Mashua, President of Mashua’s Voice for the Voiceless International.Al-Adawiya, the keynote speaker, discussed the indispensable role women play in peace-building.“No solution can be found without the full participation of women,” Al-Adawiya said. “Women are the ones with the responsibility to move peace forward.”Congresswoman Johnson began “A World of Women for World Peace” to bring greater visibility to people around the world who are victims of war and conflict and to raise awareness of women who are promoting non-violent conflict resolution within their communities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.15.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART) will receive a grant of $5,847,400 from the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Federal Transit Administration. The grant will fund the purchase and installation of bus shelters, route signs, trash cans and other items to improve existing bus facilities.“I am pleased to announce this $5.8 million grant award today,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “DART will use this money to improve the quality of bus service and the riding experience of bus passengers throughout the Metroplex.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.09.2009	Funding allocated by American Recovery and Reinvestment Act; Congresswoman Johnson only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for legislationWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Dallas, Collin and Denton Counties will receive $1,028,893 in grant money from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The funds are for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP), and were allocated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February.The Emergency Food and Shelter Program is designed to assist people who are hungry, homeless or in economic crisis. EFSP funds can be used for mass shelter, mass feeding, food distribution through food pantries and food banks, one-month assistance with rent, mortgage and utility payments to prevent evictions and transition assistance from shelters to stable living conditions.“I am pleased to announce that economic recovery funds continue to make their way to the 30th District,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “While we get our economy back on track, it is crucial that we support those members of our community who need help. This funding will aid that effort.”The money allocated to Dallas, Collin and Denton Counties was a portion of the $6,152,075 allocated to all counties in Texas.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.08.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today encouraged Texas students to apply for positions with the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) Summer Employment Program 2009. TxDOT will hire approximately 340 students this summer, for salaried positions in the administrative, information technology, engineering and maintenance fields. Positions are open to students aged 17 or older and are available from May 1 through August 15, at Austin headquarters and statewide.“Summer employment at TxDOT is an invaluable experience that gives young people an opportunity to learn about transportation issues and gain on-the-job transportation experience,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “More than 1,900 student employees have gone on to rewarding careers at TxDOT.”Interested applicants should visit https://www.txdot.gov/careers/summer.htm for more information and an employment application. Applications are also available at the Human Resources Employment Office at each district headquarters.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.08.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport (D/FW) will receive a $2 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The money was allocated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February. D/FW will use the money for runway rehabilitation. “Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport is a national and international transportation hub,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I am pleased that D/FW will receive so much economic recovery money, and I’m pleased it can put it to good use quickly.”Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the FAA received $1.1 billion to allocate to qualified airports on a discretionary basis. Priority is given to eligible projects for which the design and planning have been completed or nearly completed.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.08.2009	National Highway Traffic Safety Administration shows seat belt usage in Texas exceeds 90 percentWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today commended the more than 90 percent of Texans who use seat belts. A study conducted by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s National Center for Statistics and Analysis and released Monday found that seat belt use in Texas was 91.2 percent in 2008.“Buckling your seat belt is one of the most effective ways to keep yourself safe in a passenger vehicle, and it’s incredibly easy to do,” Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson said. “This study demonstrates the strong commitment Texans have to motor vehicle safety. I hope we can strengthen that commitment and reach 100 percent seat belt usage. I encourage all Texans to buckle up.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.03.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that she has completely overhauled her Congressional website. The new website has the same URL as the old website and can be accessed at https://ebjohnson.house.gov/.“Many people use the Internet as the primary source of information about their elected officials and the federal government,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “My new Congressional website is user-friendly and is a good resource for constituents, or for anyone interested in Congress or the 30th Congressional District of Texas. I encourage constituents to visit the website and to share their feedback about it with me.”On Congresswoman Johnson’s website, constituents can learn about current legislation, read recent press releases and sign up for tours of federal buildings in Washington, DC. In the coming weeks, additional features will be added.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.02.2009	Jump$tart Coalition names Congresswoman Johnson “Federal Legislator of the Year”Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson last night received the 2009 “Federal Legislator of the Year” award from the Jump$tart Coalition at the not-for-profit organization’s annual awards dinner. The dinner was held at the Renaissance Washington, DC Hotel.“Education focusing on basic budgeting, money management and predatory lending is a necessity, particularly now, when our economy is faltering,” Congresswoman Johnson said at the dinner. “So many people get into debt without really knowing how they got there. You, the members and partners of Jump$tart, know that it is crucial to start educating our young people about their finances early, and I applaud the work you are doing. Thank you for your recognition of my efforts in Congress.”The Jump$tart Coalition works to improve the personal financial literacy of students in kindergarten through college. It has more than 180 national partners and 48 affiliated state coalitions.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
04.01.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Education has released more than $158 million in emergency education funds for school districts in the 30th Congressional District of Texas. The Cedar Hill, Dallas, DeSoto, Duncanville, Ferris, Irving, Lancaster and Mesquite Independent School Districts will receive a total of $96,188,334 in Title I funds and $62,069,000 in IDEA funds. Please see below for school district-specific numbers.“Many school districts are in desperate need of funding, particularly now, when states and cities are cutting their budgets,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “These funds are targeted to students at the highest risk of falling through the cracks, and I am pleased that school districts throughout the Metroplex and throughout the country are receiving this important funding.”Nationwide, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides $13 billion in Title I funds and $13.5 billion in IDEA funds. Title I finances academic support for low-achieving children, particularly those in high-poverty schools, and IDEA provides support for students with disabilities. This is the first of two installments of direct funding for Title I and IDEA programs that school districts will receive under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which Congress passed and President Obama signed on February 17. The second round of funds will be released in the fall.In addition to the Title I and IDEA investments, the economic recovery plan also created a state stabilization fund to help stabilize state and local budgets and restore harmful cuts to education. Along with announcing the release of funding for local districts, the Obama administration also issued guidelines today to clarify how these funds must be used, to help clear up recent confusion over whether the state can decide how local districts and colleges use those funds. States can also now apply for this funding.The guidelines confirm that while states allocate the funds, it should be up to local school districts and colleges and universities to decide how to use this emergency aid, not up to states. The guidelines also reaffirmed that state stabilization funds should be used for three purposes: to backfill harmful cuts to K-12 and higher education, to prevent teacher layoffs and to modernize school facilities.Complete funding information for school districts in District 30 follows: School District Title I in $ IDEA in $ Cedar Hill ISD 750,344 1,627,000 Dallas ISD 78,569,756 40,911,000 Desoto ISD 1,086,527 1,812,000 Duncanville ISD 1,686,338 2,540,000 Ferris ISD 180,953 422,000 Irving ISD 7,167,516 6,529,000 Lancaster ISD 669,009 1,168,000 Mesquite ISD 6,077,891 7,060,000 Totals for TX-30 96,188,334 62,069,000 ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla
03.31.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today urged faith leaders and other residents of the 30th Congressional District of Texas to participate in a conference call with Joshua DuBois, Executive Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. Paul Monteiro, the Deputy Director, will also participate in the call. The Outreach Taskforce of the Congressional Black Caucus organized the call, and it will be led by Congressman Elijah Cummings, Chair of the Outreach Taskforce.Please see below for additional details:What: CBC Outreach Taskforce Conference Call with Faith LeadersDate: Thursday, April 2, 2009Time: 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM (EST)Call-in number: (866) 579-8110Pass code: 607912To participate, please RSVP to ibs@mail.house.gov by close of business tomorrow, Wednesday, April 1.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.27.2009	Los Barrios Unidos Community Clinic will receive $522,803 and Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Clinic will receive $238,685Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Los Barrios Unidos Community Clinic and Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Clinic, both community health centers in Dallas, will receive hundreds of thousands of dollars in funding from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Los Barrios Unidos Community Clinic will receive $522,803 and Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Clinic will receive $238,685. The grants are for expanding services at existing community health centers.“Los Barrios Unidos Community Clinic and Martin Luther King, Jr. Family Medical Clinic offer one-stop medical and dental care for people of all ages, no matter whether they are insured or uninsured,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Both clinics employ extremely committed staff members who go above and beyond every single day. I am proud that these two community health centers are in my Congressional District, and I am pleased to announce that both clinics will receive hundreds of thousands of dollars in additional funding.”The funding awards are the second set of community health center grants allocated under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February. The first set of grants, announced earlier this month, was allocated to establish 126 new community health centers nationwide.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.26.2009	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the cities of Cedar Hill, Dallas, DeSoto, Duncanville and Lancaster will receive a total of $13,443,500 in grants from the United States Department of Energy’s Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program. The money was allocated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed in February.“Taking steps to reduce fossil fuel use and make our buildings more energy efficient is good policy. Energy efficiency is good for the environment, and it saves us money,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Furthermore, not only will these grants benefit all of us in the long run, they will enable Cedar Hill, Dallas, DeSoto, Duncanville and Lancaster to put people to work, giving each of these communities immediate economic benefits.”The city of Cedar Hill will receive $176,600 in funding, the city of Dallas will receive $12,787,300, the city of DeSoto will receive $187,700, the city of Duncanville will receive $148,600 and the city of Lancaster will receive $143,300.The Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant program funds projects that reduce energy use and improve energy efficiency. For more information about the program, please see https://www.eecbg.energy.gov/.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.25.2009	Congresswoman Johnson offers amendments to Electronic Waste and Development Act and National Water Research and Development Initiative Act of 2009Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today offered three amendments to two bills being marked up in the House Committee on Science and Technology. Congresswoman Johnson offered two amendments to H.R. 1580, the Electronic Waste Research and Development Act, and one amendment to H.R. 1145, the National Water Research and Development Initiative Act of 2009. All three amendments passed.The Electronic Waste Research and Development Act seeks ways to address the growing volume of discarded electronic devices, also known as electronic waste. It includes a provision that would give grants to universities to develop engineering curriculum to mitigate e-waste in materials design. Congresswoman Johnson’s first amendment would direct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to publicize its electronic waste research findings on its website. “Advances in science and technology have given us televisions, computers, cell phones and other products that have a positive impact on our daily lives,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Unfortunately, once products become obsolete, they become electronic waste. By making electronic waste research findings available on a government website, we will enable individuals to learn how to address the electronic waste in their own lives in an informed and responsible way.”Congresswoman Johnson’s second amendment to the Electronic Waste Research and Development Act would direct the Administrator of the EPA to reach out to minority-serving institutions to provide information about how to apply for grants and grant funding.The National Water Research and Development Initiative Act of 2009 would direct the President to put in place an initiative to improve federal activities on water research. Congresswoman Johnson’s amendment would direct the Committee formed to implement the initiative to provide guidance on outreach to minority-serving institutions and to encourage them to apply for funding opportunities.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.19.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that Dallas County will receive $4,405,482 in Neighborhood Stabilization Program funding. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program provides emergency assistance to state and local governments to acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties that might otherwise become sources of abandonment and blight within their communities. “As the only Member of Congress from North Texas to vote for the economic recovery package, I am proud to announce this funding,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Foreclosed properties lower neighborhood property values and have an injurious effect on quality of life throughout the community. With this funding, we can keep Dallas neighborhoods strong and contain the effects of the continuing housing crisis at the root of the troubled economy.”The funding was allocated by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, the economic recovery package that Congress passed and President Obama signed this month. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program is administered by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.17.2009	Resolution would name American Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, after LelandWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced legislation to name the American Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, the “Mickey Leland United States Embassy Building.” Congressman Leland represented the 18th Congressional District of Texas from 1979 until 1989, when he died in a plane crash in Ethiopia. During his six terms, he found the House Select Committee on Hunger, served as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus and participated in humanitarian missions around the world.“Congressman Leland was a steadfast and inspiring leader on the issue of hunger in the United States and around the world,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “He died as he lived, bringing attention to the plight of refugees in a part of the world that sorely needed our help.“I count myself as lucky to have served with Congressman Leland. Mickey Leland was a dear friend of mine, and I am honored to commemorate him today.”Congressman Leland was born George T. Leland in 1944, in Houston, Texas. As a Member of Congress, Congressman Leland represented the neighborhood in which he was raised.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.11.2009	President Obama signs Executive Order creating White House Council on Women and GirlsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today joined President Barack Obama in the East Room of the White House as he signed an Executive Order creating the White House Council on Women and Girls. Congresswoman Johnson attended the signing at the invitation of the White House.“I was honored to attend today’s signing of the Executive Order creating the White House Council on Women and Girls,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The creation of the White House Council on Women and Girls is further proof that the Obama administration is committed to ensuring that the 154.7 million women and girls in our country are able to achieve their full potential.“March is Women’s History Month, so today’s signing carried a special significance,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “Women’s History Month gives us the opportunity to recognize and celebrate the contributions that women and girls have made to our country. It is also an opportunity to recognize that women continue to earn less than men do, face unique economic and professional obstacles, and are more likely to live in poverty than are men. Now is the time for the federal government to recommit to putting an end to these inequities, and I trust that the White House Council on Women and Girls will work to address them effectively.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
03.10.2009	Congresswoman Johnson gives keynote address at eventWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was a keynote speaker at today’s Bosnian Women’s Day on Capitol Hill, which was hosted by the Bosniak-American Advisory Council for Bosnia and Herzegovina. The theme of this year’s event was “Women’s Empowerment through Art: The BosFam Weavers for Hope.”Munira Beba Hadzic, the Executive Director of BosFam, founded the organization in 1994, during the Bosnian War, as a center for refugee women to gather, talk and knit. BosFam has evolved into an organization that gives its members the opportunity to support their families and rebuild their communities through traditional weaving and income-generating craft projects. Ms. Hadzic gave a keynote address and shared one of her craft projects, a quilt. Quilts made by other BosFam members were also on display. “I have had the privilege of traveling to Bosnia and Herzegovina after the Bosnian War, and I knew that if women were involved, peace would come,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “But no peace can be done by one person, or even by one country. Nobody likes war, but it will take all of us saying, together, that we will work for peace. I commend BosFam and the work it is doing.”Other speakers at the event were as follows:Elmina Kulasic, Executive Director, Bosniak American Advisory Council for Bosnia and Herzegovina Sebastian Gräfe, Program Director for Foreign & Security Policy and Transatlantic Issues, Heinrich Böll Foundation Iain Guest, Executive Director, The Advocacy Project Bisera Turkovic, former Bosnian Ambassador to the U.S.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.24.2009	Congresswoman Johnson reintroduces “Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act”Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that she has introduced H.R. 1144, the Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act, which she also introduced in the 110th Congress. The legislation promotes gender parity in the academic disciplines of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) at the university faculty level. The provisions of H.R. 1144 are derived from recommendations of the National Academies report “Beyond Bias and Barriers: Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering,” which found that women are under-represented in the STEM fields, in part due to gender bias.“Female college students and university professors face obstacles in the STEM disciplines, and this bill will address—and combat—those obstacles,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Gender bias doesn’t just hurt those students and professors, it hurts all of us, because it diminishes our global competitiveness in science and technology. I believe that once we have successfully fought gender bias, we will all have won.”Today, women receive only 20 percent of all bachelor’s degrees in engineering and physics. Women make up a small percentage of science and engineering faculty members at major research universities and tend to receive fewer institutional resources for their research than their male colleagues do. And those “institutional resources” are often funded with taxpayer money—the federal government provides over 60 percent of research funding at higher education institutions.The Fulfilling the Potential of Women in Academic Science and Engineering Act of 2009 directs each federal science agency to hold workshops on gender bias with members of grant review panels and engineering, mathematics, and science chairs of institutions of higher education. The list of participating academic departments will be published annually, so that those working to overcome institutional biases can be recognized for doing so.Finally, the legislation directs federal science agencies to develop policies for extended research grant support for researchers who have care-giving responsibilities. It also directs the agencies to provide guidelines for researchers to hire interim technical support during times of family leave. This policy will help to support women in STEM academic disciplines, but it will also support men who are caregivers, and make STEM research more family friendly.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.24.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson made the following statement about President Obama’s address to a joint session of Congress this evening:“Tonight, President Obama outlined the challenges our country faces and laid out a bold, comprehensive plan to address them. He demonstrated that he understands the full extent of what we are facing, but that he is optimistic, because he knows Americans are hard-working and resilient. We have risen to the challenge many times in the past, and we will rise to the challenge again.“The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was the first step in bringing genuine change to our country. It will save or create 3.5 million jobs and give 95 percent of working Americans the fastest tax cut in history. This week, in collaboration with the Obama administration, we will begin work on the nation’s budget. The steps we are taking will not help Americans in the short term and put the U.S. economy on a path to growth for generations to come.“In the coming months, I will work hard with the White House and with my colleagues, on behalf of my constituents, many of whom are experiencing the ramifications of the recession in their lives. We will rebuild and recover together.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.23.2009	Congresswoman Johnson cosponsors “BUSES Act of 2009” with Congressman Bill ShusterWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that she is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1135, the Bus Uniform Standards and Enhanced Safety (BUSES) Act of 2009. The BUSES Act of 2009 directs the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to perform a study to determine which motorcoach safety requirements need to be improved.“Motorcoach and charter bus transportation is very safe,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “However, recent fatal motorcoach accidents have shown us that additional safety measures may be warranted. I believe this legislation is an important step in the process of determining what we can do to ensure that all motorcoach and charter bus passengers are as safe as they can be.”Congressman Bill Shuster of Pennsylvania, a Republican, is the other original cosponsor of the BUSES Act of 2009. Congresswoman Johnson and Congressman Shuster both serve on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.“The BUSES Act of 2009 is bipartisan legislation,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I appreciate Congressman Shuster’s long commitment to bus safety, and I look forward to working with him throughout the legislative process.”“Ensuring the safety of passengers on the road should not be a political issue and I thank Representative Johnson for joining me as an original cosponsor,” Congressman Shuster added. “I look forward to working with all of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make this important legislation law in the 111th Congress.”Key provisions of H.R. 1135 are as follows:* The bill stipulates that within 30 months of enactment, the Department of Transportation concludes a safety study of the motorcoach industry.* The Agency shall then prescribe federal standards for a motorcoach occupant protection system that accounts for frontal impact collisions, side impact collision, rear collisions and rollovers.* Additionally, the Secretary shall issue standards for roof strength, window glazing, ways to prevent fire and means for improving the emergency evacuation process. * Finally, the bill allows for the retrofitting of any safety provisions that are issued by the Department of Transportation or its agencies. This provision is essential to allow the industry to adjust to new safety requirements.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.20.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today partnered with Consumer Credit Counseling Service of Greater Dallas (CCCS Dallas) to hold a workshop on “Surviving a Financial Crisis.” The workshop featured a panel discussion hosted by Congresswoman Johnson and Todd Mark, vice president of education for CCCS Dallas, followed by a one hour class covering topics including handling the loss of a job, creating a budget and finding ways to save money. More than 40 people attended the event, which was held at the offices of CCCS Dallas.“Our nation is facing an economic crisis—the worst in decades,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Americans are losing their homes, their jobs, their access to health care, and their savings. Our workshop today is designed to give you skills and discuss resources that are available to you here in the Metroplex—we want to do what we can to help get you and other North Texans through this recession.”The “Surviving a Financial Crisis” workshop is the kick-off event for Congresswoman Johnson’s financial education lecture series. Each month, the Congresswoman will hold a financial education event for her constituents. The events will target all ages, including high school and college students.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.20.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Federal Aviation Administration has awarded the Dallas Love Field Airport a grant for $3,387,010. The money will be used to construct a taxiway and to rehabilitate runway lighting.“Love Field is a convenient, accessible airport that has served the people of North Texas well for decades,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This funding will enable the airport to repair and modernize its runway system, and I know it will be money well-spent.”Dallas Love Field Airport is located in Congresswoman Johnson’s Congressional District. According to a recent report by the Texas Department of Transportation’s Aviation Division, the direct economic output attributable to the airport is estimated at more than $352.7 million. Additionally, scheduled airlines, and to a lesser extent, general aviation aircraft, transport over 1.7 million visitors to the area each year, supporting more than 18,000 visitor-related jobs and $377.8 million in payroll. Visitor expenditures are also responsible for $659.7 million in direct economic output.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.12.2009	Congressional Resolution recognizes first African-American to receive Ph.D. in computer science, Clarence “Skip” EllisWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced a concurrent resolution recognizing that African Americans have achieved parity in computer science bachelor’s degrees. In 2006, African Americans constituted 12.4 percent of computer science bachelor’s degree recipients, roughly equivalent to the percentage of African Americans in the United States population, 12.8.The resolution also recognizes Clarence “Skip” Ellis, the first African American to receive a Ph.D. in computer science. Dr. Ellis received his Ph.D. from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1969.“February is Black History Month, and there is no better way to celebrate than to recognize the accomplishments of the African Americans throughout the country who have earned degrees in computer science,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I applaud the hard work of the African American scientists in all disciplines throughout the country, and I will continue to work to promote the achievement of parity in all scientific fields.”The full text of the resolution follows:Whereas the National Center for Education Statistics reports that since 1997, the number of black students receiving baccalaureates in computer science has more than doubled, from 2,463 to 5,875;Whereas the percentage of blacks among computer science bachelor’s degree-holders has been rising since 1998, and in 2006, blacks made up 12.4 percent of the candidates receiving those degrees, a proportion almost equal to that of blacks in the United States population, which is 12.8 percent;Whereas in other areas such as engineering, blacks do not have parity, because they earned only 5 percent of bachelor’s degrees in engineering in 2006;Whereas overall, the number of students receiving degrees in computer science has shrunk by more than 12,000 over the past two years for which the federal government has data: from 59,488 in 2003 to 47,480 in 2005;Whereas computer science has been described as the bedrock of a plethora of future technologies;Whereas the National Society of Black Engineers has more than 900 collegiate members who have or are pursuing computer science degrees;Whereas Clarence "Skip" Ellis, born in 1943 in south Chicago, Illinois, was the first African-American to attain a Ph.D. in computer science;Whereas when he was 15, Dr. Ellis took a job at a local company and worked the “graveyard shift,” during which he guarded and educated himself about computers, which in 1958 were very uncommon;Whereas Dr. Ellis won a scholarship at matriculated at Beloit College in 1960, and he discovered that he was the only African-American on campus;Whereas Dr. Ellis graduated from Beloit College in 1964 with a double major in math and physics, and he went on to earn a Ph.D. in computer science in 1969 at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where he worked on one of the world’s first supercomputers, the Illiac 4;Whereas Dr. Ellis was a trailblazer who symbolizes perseverance and success in the face of seemingly insurmountable challenges;Whereas the off shoring of jobs, and the H-1B visa program - which allows non-U.S. citizens in high-skill professions to live in the U.S. as temporary workers - are contributing to salary stagnation in domestic technology jobs;Whereas to remain competitive, computer scientists must continue to innovate, learn new skills, and think creatively;Whereas enrichment programs for middle-school students are of critical importance to retaining their interest in math and science, and an example of a successful program is the Summer Engineering Experience for Kids (SEEK) Camp, sponsored by the National Society of Black Engineers and included the participation of 600 third, fourth and fifth graders;Whereas the National Science Foundation, Department of Energy Office of Science, National Institutes of Health and other federal agencies are well-positioned to increase the diversity of our nation’s federal science and technology workforce through a variety of research and educational programs:Now, therefore, be it Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the Congress recognizes the achievement of parity among African Americans in degrees conferred in computer science and celebrates this victory among persons of color, especially during Black History Month.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.10.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today submitted the following statement to the Congressional record, in honor of the 100th anniversary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on its 100th Anniversary. In 1909 the founders of the NAACP came together with the purpose of promoting the rights guaranteed under the 13th, 14th, and 15th Amendments to the Constitution. Today, the NAACP works to ensure that all individuals have equal rights and to end racial hatred and discrimination. The NAACP has influenced some of the greatest civil rights victories of the last century, including: the integration of our nation’s schools and the Brown v. Board decision; the Voting Rights Act; striking down segregation; and the Equal Employment Opportunity Act.It is particularly notable that this year’s 100th anniversary also marks the first time in the history of the United States that we have an African-American President. The NAACP helped pave the way for this landmark achievement, and continues to lay the groundwork for future accomplishments in minority communities.Despite the advancements of the past 100 years under the leadership of the NAACP, there is still much work to be done. The NAACP continues to promote new ideas and leadership in the fields of educational and employment opportunities, ending health care disparities, and economic empowerment. The NAACP instilled in America a sense of consciousness, and it continues to do so today. I commend the NAACP on this anniversary and the thousands of individuals who continue to fight for equality and justice.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.09.2009	Legislation will give VA system more tools to recruit and retain medical and professional staffWashington, DC – (February 9, 2009) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Veterans’ Medical Personnel Recruitment and Retention Act of 2009, a bill she also introduced in the 110th Congress. The legislation will raise salaries for nurses, physicians, dentists and executives who work for the VA system.“As a former nurse, I know first-hand the importance of high-quality medical care, and how much it can improve the quality of life of returning servicemembers and veterans,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “We can make our VA system even better than it is now, and I believe this legislation is an important step toward doing so.”In addition to raising salaries, the Veterans’ Medical Personnel Recruitment and Retention Act will:* Streamline pay systems, making them easier to understand and to implement;* Provide incentives to retired employees to return to the VA system by removing annuity and salary offsets, encouraging the qualified workers most familiar with VA to return to work;* Increase education benefits for new VA hires and current staff;* Clarify VA regulations regarding work schedules and overtime; and* Make it easier for VA to hire and retain part-time nurses and allow full-time nurses to transition to part-time work schedules.The Veterans’ Medical Personnel Recruitment and Retention Act of 2009 is the House companion bill to S. 252, which Senator Daniel K. Akaka has introduced in the Senate.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.06.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson’s office today partnered with the city of Lancaster to hold a training session on the digital television (DTV) transition at the Lancaster Life Center. Nearly 100 area residents attended, along with representatives from the Lancaster Life Center, the Hutchins Life Center and the Agency on Aging Community Council of Greater Dallas. Thomas Wyatt of the Federal Communications Commission was the featured speaker.On June 12, federal law will require all television stations to broadcast only in digital format, which will affect television viewers who currently use “rabbit ears” or a rooftop antenna. Today’s training session was designed to educate individuals and local agencies on the three options those viewers have: purchasing a converter box at an electronic retailer; purchasing a television set with a built-in digital tuner; or subscribing to cable, satellite, or another pay television service. Congress recently voted to delay the DTV transition from February 17 to June 12.The session also included an opportunity for local residents to sign up for coupons for converter boxes. Though there is currently a waiting list for coupons, they could become available in the coming months.Congresswoman Johnson’s office held a similar event Friday, January 30, at Oak Lawn United Methodist Church in Dallas.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
02.03.2009	Mercury Emissions Reductions Act will restrict mercury emissions of coal-fired electric power plantsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Mercury Emissions Reduction Act, which will amend the Clean Air Act to make coal-fired electric power plants subject to the most rigorous mercury emissions standard under the Clean Air Act, commonly referred to as the Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standard. “Mercury is a neurotoxin that, once emitted, can circulate for up to a year before being deposited on land or in bodies of water,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Even at low levels, mercury can have adverse health effects, particularly on women of child-bearing age and on developing fetuses. This legislation is a basic, common-sense effort to promote public health, and I am confident it will become law during the Obama administration.”Mercury emissions from coal-fired electric power plants are currently covered by a patchwork of regulations; standards depend on where the plant is located, when it was constructed, whether it has been modified and other factors. The MACT standard would provide a more stringent—and less confusing—regulatory framework.The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) determined that the MACT standard was warranted for all major sources of mercury emissions in 2000. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.28.2009	Legislation will encourage financial institutions and businesses to provide free financial educationWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the National Financial Literacy Act of 2009, which will provide incentives to financial institutions, small businesses and corporations to provide financial education to their customers and employees. Original co-sponsors of the bill include Representatives Steve Cohen, Elijah Cummings, Bob Filner, Phil Hare and Jim McGovern.The National Financial Literacy Act of 2009 amends the Community Reinvestment Act to allow banking institutions to receive credit for offering community-based financial literacy programs. It provides for small businesses and corporations that offer free financial education to receive preferential treatment for government contracts, and for those small businesses to receive tax breaks.“Our economy is in a recession, and every day, Americans make financial missteps due to their lack of financial knowledge,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “We must begin to see financial literacy as a necessity, and I hope to make financial education more accessible with the National Financial Literacy Act.”Under the bill, qualified community-based financial literacy programs would include the topics of saving for retirement, managing credit, long-term care, estate planning, predatory lending, identity theft and financial abuse schemes.In the 110th Congress, Congresswoman Johnson introduced the National Financial Literacy Act of 2007 and the Employers Financial Literacy Act. The National Financial Literacy Act of 2009 incorporates both.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.28.2009	American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will send millions of dollars to North Texas school districtsWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted in favor of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which was approved by a vote of 244-188 in the House. Developed with the Obama administration, the economic recovery package will create and save three to four million jobs, give 95 percent of American workers an immediate tax cut and invest quickly in the economy.The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will provide North Texas school districts with hundreds of millions of dollars in funding over 2009 and 2010, much of which will be targeted to repairing, renovating and modernizing school infrastructure. Additionally, North Texas school districts will receive tens of millions of dollars to allow them to maintain the services they currently provide, and tens of millions of dollars will be allocated under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), which provides support for special needs students. The Dallas Independent School District will receive over $200 million over the two-year period.Congresswoman Johnson submitted two statements to the Congressional Record in support of the American Recover and Reinvestment Act, one on infrastructure investment and one on science and technology. Both follow:Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks. I want to commend my Chairman, Mr. Oberstar, and Chairman Obey for elevating the importance of infrastructure investment towards the economic recovery of our nation.I strongly support the underlying bill, particularly the infrastructure components, which direct desperately needed funds into our nation’s roads, bridges, transit systems, airports, and water-related infrastructure.Over the past two years, the Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment has held numerous hearings on the nation’s water-related infrastructure needs. Whether it is the $300 to $400 billion investment needed to restore and upgrade our nation’s network of wastewater treatment infrastructure, or the projected $50 to $60 billion for vital projects of the Corps of Engineers, the water-related infrastructure needs of this nation are staggering, and growing ever larger. Each $1 billion of Federal funds invested in infrastructure creates or sustains approximately thirty-four thousand jobs and $6.2 billion in economic activity. The $3 billion in infrastructure investment funding in the bill for the State of Texas will provide a real, tangible benefit to the seven hundred thousand individuals currently unemployed in my state – whether as a paycheck for those responsible for constructing these vital projects, or through increased productivity for small businesses that produce the materials needed for these vital infrastructure projects. However, unlike other economic recovery proposals, infrastructure investment provides not only a short-term benefit to American families, it also provides a long-term benefit in terms of sustainable and reliable infrastructure, as well as the potential for increased productivity for the nation’s economy through the efficient movement of goods and services. It also can enhance the overall quality of the nation’s water-related environment through the implementation of environmental restoration projects by the Corps of Engineers, and through the control of pollutant discharges from combined sewer and sanitary sewer upgrades.Finally, infrastructure investment provides one of the only benefits that cannot be shipped off to foreign lands. The direct beneficiaries of domestic infrastructure projects are our towns, our local communities, our constituents. I support the bill and yield back the balance of my time. ***As snow drifts outside our nation’s Capitol, we acknowledge that we as a nation are in the midst of an economic winter. I support H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, because I believe that the federal and state programs funded therein will provide needed stimulus to our economy.With record numbers of Americans unemployed, with our defense budget stretched in war, with our children slipping in educational competitiveness, and with the sick and elderly facing a deepening well of poverty, it is time to act. Congress and the Administration have swiftly assembled a package of wide-ranging support in many important areas. I particularly support the science and educational stimulus activities.Science and technology funding go directly to the high-tech workforce. Investments in the Advanced Research Project Agency for Energy will support research into energy sources and energy efficiency. The bill also contains funding toward a more reliable, energy-efficient electricity grid to keep up with tomorrow’s technologies. It contains money for the National Institute of Standards and Technology to fund grants for research science buildings at colleges and universities. Funding for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will enable more scientists to conduct climate change research. Investments in scientific research are investments in our future. They will pay for themselves ten-fold over future generations and very well could save our planet from the destructive effects of global warming.Educational opportunities for all students are an imperative investment in our future. This recovery package will make bold investments to provide children with a 21st century education, modernize our schools and colleges, and make college more affordable. An investment of $14 billion for modernization of K-12 schools is badly needed. The legislation also contains money to enable bright students to go to college. It improves current higher education tax credits by creating a new “American Opportunity” tax credit with a maximum of $2,500, rather than the current maximum of $1,800. This expansion will make college more affordable for millions of low- and moderate-income students. It also provides additional support for the Head Start program, which will provide important development services to 110,000 additional low-income preschool children. Furthermore, the bill provides funds for competitive grants to provide financial incentives for teachers who raise student achievement and close the achievement gaps in high-need schools. We must invest in our nation’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and other Minority Serving Institutions. Currently, there exists a “digital divide” between HBCU campuses and their counterparts. There is a great need to update campus technology and develop educational and technological opportunities for students and staff. Because of their unique resources, HBCUs continue to be extremely effective in producing African American graduates and preparing them to compete in the global economy. HBCUs represent nine of the top ten colleges that graduate the most African Americans who go on to earn Ph.D.s. I request to insert data into the record demonstrating the important value that HBCUs add, when it comes to minority education. The distinctive ability of HBCUs to provide opportunity and advancement to African American students is undeniable and is worthy of federal support. When Americans think of this landmark stimulus bill, shovel-ready projects may immediately come to mind. However, investments in research and in math and science education will pay long-term dividends. They not only will create new jobs, but they will elevate our workforce by providing an excellent education. These investments will open a world of opportunities for millions who previously had none. This bill is an investment in our future: tomorrow and for decades to come.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.28.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today introduced the Community Assistance for Persons with Mental Illness Act, which strengthens the safety net for people who are homeless and mentally ill by providing them with housing and financial counseling upon their release from inpatient or residential institutions.The legislation designates funds already allocated to state and local governments under the community development and community mental health services and substance abuse block grant programs to housing and financial literacy education. Qualifying housing counseling would include information on how to apply for public housing, housing assistance and tax credit programs and housing laws. Qualifying financial counseling would include information on saving, managing credit, long-term care, estate planning, predatory lending, identity theft, financial abuse schemes and work incentives.“The Community Assistance for Persons with Mental Illness Act seeks to help a group of people who have very few resources available to them as they navigate the confusing array of programs and services designed to provide them with support,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “The right information could make all the difference to someone who is trying to find stability in his or her life.”Congresswoman Johnson introduced similar legislation in the 110th Congress.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.22.2009	Congresswoman Johnson will serve on Subcommittee on Energy and Environment and Subcommittee on Research and Science EducationWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was today named to two subcommittees of the House Committee on Science and Technology: the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education and the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment. Congresswoman Johnson served on the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education in the 110th Congress, and she has served on the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment in the past.“Texas is a major energy-producing state, and serving on the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment will enable me to take a proactive role on energy issues, which are extremely important to the people of the 30th District of Texas,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “I will work to decrease our dependence on fossil fuels, both foreign and domestic, and to promote the development of alternative energy technologies.“I also look forward to continuing my work on the Subcommittee on Research and Science Education,” she continued. “Expanding opportunities for minority and female students in the STEM fields—science, technology, engineering and math—has been a goal of mine since I entered Congress, and while we have made progress, there is a great deal more to be done.”Please see below for information about both subcommittees:Subcommittee on Energy and EnvironmentThe Subcommittee on Energy and Environment handles issues related to U.S. energy policy and environmental science. It oversees civilian R&D programs within DOE, including basic energy research, the national labs, and energy technology development and demonstration in the areas of renewable energy, energy efficiency, fossil energy, and nuclear energy; R&D programs at NOAA, including climate, weather, and ocean research; and research at EPA. In the 110th Congress, the Subcommittee worked on issues including climate change; solar, geothermal, and vehicle technologies; biofuels development; water efficiency and conservation; the NPOESS weather and climate satellite program; DOE’s FutureGen program addressing clean coal and CCS; and ocean acidification. Subcommittee on Research and Science EducationThe Subcommittee on Research and Science Education handles issues related to basic research, science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, science policy, and the health of the U.S. academic research enterprise. It oversees all programs at NSF and OSTP. In the 110th Congress, the Subcommittee worked on issues including nanotechnology, K-12 STEM education programs, international science and technology cooperation, and gender equity in science and engineering.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.21.2009	TARP Reform and Accountability Act passes House 260-166Washington, DC – (January 21, 2009) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 384, the TARP Reform and Accountability Act, showing her support for legislation that will overhaul and improve the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) provisions of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The measure passed the House by a vote of 260-166.“Today’s TARP legislation will close loopholes in the program and make it truly responsive to the American people,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “This bill requires banks to tell Congress how the money they have received is going to be used, and it mandates a commitment of at least $40 billion to foreclosure mitigation. I believe we have taken an important step toward ensuring that the remaining TARP funds are used responsibly and effectively.”The TARP Reform and Accountability Act requires banks that have received TARP money to make quarterly public reports on how the money is being used and places restrictions on executive compensation. It also calls on the Treasury Department to commit $100 billion—and requires a commitment of $40 billion—to a comprehensive foreclosure mitigation plan, to be developed by March 15 and implemented by April 1.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.16.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record on Tuesday, January 13, in support of H.Res. 43, which passed the House unanimously. The resolution recognizes Martin Luther King Day and promotes it as a day of service. Martin Luther King Day will be observed Monday, January 19.I rise today to honor Dr. King’s legacy and to commemorate this day of national service. Dr. King once said, “Everybody can be great... because anybody can serve. You don't have to have a college degree to serve. You don't have to make your subject and verb agree to serve. You only need a heart full of grace. A soul generated by love.”It is that idea, that together we can make a difference, in this nation and in the lives of others, that has prompted this day of service. I believe that the message of change resonates greatly this particular Martin Luther King Day. This past year, I have seen young people who have never before been involved in service working to change their communities. The ideals for which Dr. King gave his life have energized a new generation of peaceful activists. These young people may not have experienced the words and spirit of Dr. King during their lifetime, but his legacy drives their efforts and enthusiasm.It is a testament to his greatness that Dr. King’s message has transcended time and generations. Dr. King called on all of us to no longer stand alone in silence, but to stand up together as a voice against injustice. He inspired us to fight for change through nonviolent means, and paved the road for us to continue that fight even after his death. Dr. King left us with the challenge to courageously fight and secure the civil rights for all, from the impoverished and disenfranchised underclass to the politically and economically endowed. And while we have made great progress, there is still work to be done. We must remain diligent and engaged in defining how our nation will achieve this equality. Today's Martin Luther King Day is as much about the past as it is about the present and the future. Dr. King’s dream is truly timeless, and I hope all will participate in this day of service to honor his faith and vision.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.14.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson was today elected chair of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment for the 111th Congress, by unanimous consent of the entire Transportation and Infrastructure Democratic caucus. She also held the position in the 110th Congress.“I am very pleased to serve as chair of the Water Resources and Environment subcommittee for a second term,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “In the coming Congress, we plan to reintroduce and pass bills to bolster wastewater infrastructure, improve water quality and reexamine federal participation in the area of water resources planning. I look forward to working on these issues with the Obama administration.”The jurisdiction of the Water Resources and Environment subcommittee includes the civil works programs of the Army Corps of Engineers, including projects for flood control, navigation, water supply, hydroelectric power, environmental restoration, shoreline protection, and recreation; inland, coastal, and ocean water pollution control, including the Clean Water Act, Oil Pollution Act, and Ocean Dumping Act; wetlands protection and enhancement; Superfund hazardous substances program; Tennessee Valley Authority; Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; and certain “small watershed” projects of the National Resources Conservation Service.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.14.2009	House passes State Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization bill 289-139Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for H.R. 2, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 289-139. The legislation reauthorizes the SCHIP program through fiscal year 2013 and preserves coverage for the 7 million children currently covered by SCHIP, including 710,690 in Texas. It also extends coverage to 4 million uninsured children.“Texas has the highest number of uninsured kids in the nation, and I’m proud to vote for this bill,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Providing health insurance to children is the right thing to do. It is also the smart thing to do—comprehensive, quality health insurance is more cost-effective for taxpayers than emergency room visits, and healthy children are better able to do well in school.”In addition to reauthorizing SCHIP, H.R. 2 contains provisions that will strengthen it. Two-thirds of uninsured children are eligible for coverage through SCHIP or Medicaid, and the legislation provides funding for states to develop better outreach to identify and enroll them. The legislation will also extend dental coverage to children enrolled in SCHIP and ensure that states offer mental health services on par with medical and surgical benefits.SCHIP was created in 1997 to cover children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid but not enough to afford private insurance. The reauthorization legislation is fully paid-for and will be funded by increasing the tobacco tax by 61 cents and by closing a loophole in Medicare that allows physicians to profit from referring their patients to hospitals in which they have an ownership interest.Congresswoman Johnson’s floor statement in support of H.R. 2 is below:Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009.Texas ranks last in the nation in terms of taking care of its children. A report released in 2009 by the organization called “Texans Care for Children” contains dismal statistics.For example: * Texas continues to rank 50th out of 50 among the states in health coverage for children. * Infant mortality rates have steadily climbed in Texas this decade, while remaining unchanged in the nation as a whole. * Texas still ranks near the bottom in child hunger, child poverty, and child deaths from abuse or neglect.The State of Texas continues to be ineffective at resolving the problem of uninsured children in our state.I am sympathetic to states’ needs to avoid revenue shortfalls regarding SCHIP, and so I support Congress allocating the funds needed to cover children in need.Today’s legislation is similar to a bill passed by Congress in 2007 and vetoed by the President. It would provide health care coverage to 11 million children in this country who currently have none.I support a generous expansion of this program.Children with health insurance are more likely to be up to date on immunizations and to receive treatment for sore throats, ear aches and other illnesses.Good health means fewer sick days and better school performance-- and less burden on our emergency rooms.As a nurse, I can not over-emphasize how important it is for young people to have a medical home. Having a family physician can prevent so many minor illnesses from developing into serious, expensive illnesses.Health care coverage of children just makes good sense.I urge my colleagues to avoid delay in passing this bill, as is critical for the health of so many children.Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.09.2009	Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act passes 247-171 and Paycheck Fairness Act passes 256-163Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today voted for passage of two key pieces of pay equity legislation, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the Paycheck Fairness Act. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, HR 11, passed by a vote of 247-171 and the Paycheck Fairness Act, HR 12, passed by a vote of 256-163. Both bills are identical to the versions that the House passed in the 110th Congress.The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act is named for Lilly Ledbetter, who was a victim of sex-based pay discrimination but who was denied a remedy by the Supreme Court in 2007, in a 5-4 decision. The Supreme Court held that a suit for pay discrimination must be filed within 180 days of the employer’s initial decision to pay an employee less. The bill restores longstanding prior law, which provided that a pay discrimination charge must be filed within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck.The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens the Equal Pay Act of 1963, closing loopholes and expanding sex-based wage discrimination remedies to include compensatory and punitive damages. It requires employers to show that pay disparities are not sex-based, are job-related and are consistent with job necessity. It also prohibits employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers.“We have made progress on combating sex-based pay disparities, but today, women still make only 78 cents for every dollar earned by men. African-American and Latina women earn even less,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Now, when people are struggling financially, is no time to give tacit consent to a system that allows discrimination to exist. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the Paycheck Fairness Act ensure that we will move toward a day when women are paid what they deserve.”Congresswoman Johnson’s complete Congressional Record statement is below.Madam Speaker, Today, I am pleased to speak about two bills that will go a long way towards establishing gender equity in American workplaces. The Paycheck Fairness Act and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act will help close the legal loopholes and restore initial intent of our civil rights laws.It has been 45 years since the passage of the landmark Equal Pay Act of 1963, and while pay disparities have narrowed, a strong wage disparity still exists. In fact, according to the U.S. Census Bureau women still make only 78 cents on the dollar to their male counterparts. We cannot deny that this gender disparity exists, and it is essential that we close the loopholes that allow it to continue. The Paycheck Fairness Act increases enforcement and accountability in cases of discrimination, and provides relief for women who face retaliation for standing up for equal pay. It also requires the Department of Labor to increase their efforts to end pay disparities.Last year, the U.S. Supreme Court overturned a longstanding prior law making it increasingly difficult for workers to pursue legal remedies for pay discrimination. Today we will work to restore the intent of the Civil Rights Act through passage of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. We will no longer unfairly turn back to the clock on discrimination claims. An incident of pay discrimination occurs each time a worker receives a lesser paycheck because of their gender, and we must treat it as such. We can no longer distort the intent of the law to protect those who seek to discriminate.These bills are not only for women, but for children and families. For the millions of working mothers in America - many of whom are heads of households - it offers financial stability. This wage disparity is costing women between $400,000 and $2 million over a lifetime.Lower wages factor into long-term financial planning. Retirement and Social Security are based on income. Retirement aged women today are far less likely to receive a pension, and rely on Social Security benefits to survive. The wage discrimination women are facing today will continue to follow them well into retirement.We cannot continue to simply accept this disparity, and the Paycheck Fairness Act and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act are strong statements that this type of discrimination will not be tolerated. I would like to thank Congresswoman DeLauro and Chairman Miller for offering these important pieces of legislation, and commend the Democratic leadership for bringing these bills to the floor.### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
01.08.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today made the following tatement in the House of Representatives about Senior Corporal Norman Smith of the Dallas Police Department, who died in the line of duty on Tuesday, January 6.Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and service of Senior Corporal Norman Smith, who died in the line of duty on January 6, 2008. An 18-year veteran of the Dallas Police Department, Sr. Cpl. Smith spent his career bravely serving the residents of Dallas, Texas. With a heavy heart, I pay tribute to him and the impact he made in our city. My condolences are extended to his family and his fellow officers, who are mourning the loss of a husband, father and friend. Sr. Cpl. Smith, 43, joined the Dallas Police Department in 1991 and most recently served as a member in the Gang Unit for the past twelve years. Deeply committed to stamping out the influence of gangs, he worked tirelessly to free neighborhoods crippled with violence, crime and drugs. He was instrumental in taking back neighborhood blocks long controlled by gangs in Dallas for years. His work in this area is now credited as a textbook case for federal and local officials working to rid communities of criminal organizations. Throughout his career, he received numerous commendations and was honored as a Dallas Police Department Office of the Year.There is no doubt that Sr. Cpl. Smith was not only exemplary of those that choose to serve and protect, but admired and deeply respected by all he met. He will be remembered for his strength of character, respect for all those he encountered and his deep commitment to his police work. He is described by his own Police Chief as having the “heart of a warrior.” Dallas has truly lost a hero, and we will forever remember the positive changes he brought to the community. His life was a testament to all that can be achieved through dedication to public service. My prayers are with his wife, Dallas Police Lieutenant Regina Smith, and his teenage son and daughter. He first met his wife while she was a young police officer, noting that she was the most beautiful woman he had ever seen. During the time they had together, there is no doubt there was much happiness and a unique shared passion for their life’s work.Madam Speaker, today we mourn the loss of one of Dallas’ finest, Sr. Cpl. Norman Smith. Our city is forever grateful for the sacrifice he has made in the line of duty. His legacy will live on in our hearts and in the community he served. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.19.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on President-elect Barack Obama’s naming of Congresswoman Hilda Solis as Secretary of Labor, Congressman Ray LaHood as Secretary of Transportation, and former Dallas Mayor Ron Kirk as U.S. Trade Representative.“Today, President-elect Barack Obama named three outstanding individuals to his administration. I have a very high regard for both Congresswoman Hilda Solis and Congressman Ray LaHood, and I can attest first-hand to their expertise and their abilities. Both will be missed in the House of Representatives, but I look forward to working with them in their new roles.“I have known Ron Kirk since he was a young man, and I could not be prouder of him than I am today. Ron is a man who brings people together and gets things done, and I know that he will bring his estimable intelligence to his new role.”###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.09.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson will submit the following statement for the record tomorrow, on the 60th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations:Madam Speaker, I rise to commemorate the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Sixty years since its inception, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights continues to be a foundation for the protection of rights and a statement to the world that human rights abuse is an abomination to the human race.On December 10, 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The declaration was established in response to the horrific religious and racial bigotry of World War II. The declaration represented the first global expression of rights to which all human beings are inherently entitled. This declaration expresses to the world that human rights are not just a principle for the few, the wealthy, or for those who live in economically developed nations - human rights are universal and for all humankind.Today, we still live in a world where people murder their neighbors over religion, the color of their skin, and national ideologies. This is unacceptable. It is my hope that we as a world of nations can settle our differences through dialogue and treat our each other with dignity and respect. ###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.01.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement:“Many of our roads and bridges in North Texas are in desperate need of repair and maintenance. President-elect Obama recognizes the importance of devoting economic stimulus dollars to these infrastructure projects, ensuring our continued safety while employing thousands of people in new projects across the country.“I support a fair distribution of federal spending to states. I have met with House leadership on several occasions to discuss the needs of states with massive infrastructure needs, like Texas. And as the senior Texan on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I will continue to advocate for our state as we work to invest in our infrastructure and jumpstart our economy.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
12.01.2008	Washington, DC – (December 1, 2008) Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on World AIDS Day, which is observed each year on December 1.“More than 40,000 Americans are infected with HIV each year, and people of color are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. AIDS is now the leading cause of death for African-American women aged 25 to 34.“Today, on World AIDS Day, I encourage North Texans to wear a red ribbon, to remember those we have lost to AIDS, recognize those who are courageously living with the disease, and recommit to preventing and treating HIV/AIDS in every way we can. “I also encourage everyone to do what they can to learn about the HIV/AIDS and ensure that they are keeping themselves safe. We must all work together to fight this epidemic.”More information about HIV/AIDS and World AIDS Day can be found at https://www.hhs.gov/aidsawarenessdays/days/world/index.html.###U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
11.19.2008	Transportation Funds Will Be Distributed to Transit Agencies to Improve Bus Fleets and FacilitiesWashington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation has made a grant of $11,628,120 to the Texas Department of Transportation (TXDOT) through the Urban and Rural Bus Discretionary Program. The money will be used for bus replacement and bus facility upgrades throughout the state of Texas."I am very pleased that Texas will receive such a large sum of money to improve our existing bus systems,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Transportation costs have become an ever-increasing burden on working families in recent years, and people are having trouble making ends meet in this economy. We in government must continue to make mass transit an appealing option for people.”According to the American Public Transportation Association, public transportation saves travelers 1.1 billion hours in travel time, and every $10 million invested in public transportation saves more than $15 million in transportation costs, for both highway and transit users.“Public transportation provides personal mobility and freedom for people from every walk of life,” Congresswoman Johnson continued. “The transportation funding made available by this grant will play a pivotal role in aiding our state's various transit agencies continue to enhance mobility and improve quality of life for thousands of Texans in both rural and urban areas.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.29.2008	Oak Cliff, TX – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today made remarks at the Oak Cliff Chamber of Commerce’s Food for Thought Luncheon. The luncheon was held at the Golf Club of Dallas. In her remarks, Congresswoman Johnson discussed the economic rescue plan recently passed by Congress and enacted by President Bush, and its importance to North Texas small businesses.“In North Texas, small businesses account for 80 percent of the business community and 34 percent of the total work force,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Last month we saw investors pulling money from even the safest investments, which meant that money for the short-term loans that businesses use every day was either unavailable or cost three to times more to borrow. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act was the first step we took in Congress to stabilize our troubled economy and to help small businesses.“I have had first-hand experience of the struggles business owners face each day, and I will continue to work on behalf of small businesses in Congress.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.22.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services has awarded four different research grants to medical facilities in the 30th Congressional District of Dallas, totaling more than $1.1 million. Please see below for information about each grant’s awarding office, name of grantee, type of award and award amount:Awarding Office: National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication DisordersName of Grantee: University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at DallasType of Award: Biological Research Related to Deafness and Communicative DisordersAmount of Award: $157,000Awarding Office: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious DiseasesName of Grantee: University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at DallasType of Award: Allergy, Immunology, and Transplantation ResearchAmount of Award: $392,500Awarding Office: National Cancer InstituteName of Grantee: University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at DallasType of Award: Cancer Biology ResearchAmount of Award: $319,260Awarding Office: Agency for Healthcare Research and QualityName of Grantee: Baylor Research InstituteType of Award: Research Demonstration and Dissemination ProjectsAmount of Award: $298,525### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.03.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today released the following statement on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 263-171:“I voted today for the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act because it is bipartisan legislation that will help my constituents. The United States is confronting a serious credit crisis, and everyday North Texans, like Americans across the country, would pay the highest price. Hardworking Americans need access to credit to buy homes and go to college, and without credit, small businesses quickly go under.“Our next step is to continue to work to grow the economy—to create jobs and to lower gas prices. We also must reform how business is done on Wall Street—and fight corruption—so that these large financial firms don’t destabilize our economy again.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
10.03.2008	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Eddie Bernice Johnson today announced that the Department of Health & Human Services Administration on Children, Youth and Families has given a $200,000 grant to the Salvation Army Casa Shelter. Casa Shelter has provided shelter to runaway children ages 10 to 17 in the Dallas area since 1975, with the ultimate goal of placing them in a stable home environment.“Casa Shelter provides an invaluable service to our community,” Congresswoman Johnson said. “Casa Shelter is a last resort to children who are in desperate situations, and it provides comprehensive services, including medical and counseling services, to help make the children’s lives better.”### U.S. Representative Eddie Bernice Johnson is the highest-ranking Texan on the House Committee on Transportation & Infrastructure and a senior member of the Science Committee. She represents the 30th Congressional District of Texas, which, includes Downtown Dallas, Fair Park, Oak Lawn, Old East Dallas, Pleasant Grove, & South Oak Cliff; all of Balch Springs, DeSoto, Hutchins, Lancaster & Wilmer and parts of Cedar Hill, Duncanville, Ferris, Glenn Heights and Ovilla.
