02.15.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2019 (VRIPA), a bipartisan bill that would exempt from taxation the benefits volunteer firefighters and emergency medical services (EMS) personnel receive from their communities. Larson introduced the bill with Mike Kelly (PA-16), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09), and Peter King (NY-02). Larson authored a similar bill that was signed into law in 2007, but the exemption expired in 2010. Currently, volunteers must pay federal income tax on these modest incentives. VRIPA would allow volunteer first responders to exempt from federal taxation any property tax reductions and up to $600 per year in other benefits. “These brave men and women put their lives on the line to protect and save others in their communities every single time they respond to a call,” said Larson. “They take these risks and volunteer on behalf of their neighbors, yet are forced to pay federal taxes on the small tokens of gratitude their communities bestow in return. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation would ease the burden placed upon our volunteer first responders who already sacrifice so much.” "The IAFC thanks Representative Larson for his continued leadership in protecting incentives for volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel who serve their communities. The IAFC urges Congress to pass this bipartisan legislation to ensure that fire departments continue to have every ability to recruit and retain volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel,” said Chief Dan Eggleston, International Association of Fire Chiefs President and Chairman of the Board. “I’d like to thank Representative Larson for introducing this important legislation,” said National Volunteer Fire Council Chair Kevin D. Quinn. “VRIPA makes it easier for local communities to offer small incentives to bolster volunteer fire and EMS staffing. This is a common sense bill and should be a priority for passage by Congress and the administration.” In recent years, the number of volunteer firefighters in the United States has declined by nearly 41,000 while the number of volunteers over the age of 50 has steadily increased. To boost recruitment and retention, many volunteer fire and EMS agencies provide minor financial and non-monetary incentives, including but not limited to uniforms, annual award ceremonies, and reduced property taxes. The services donated by volunteer first responders are estimated to be worth approximately $46.9 billion annually. Without these services, many communities would be unable to provide firefighting and emergency medical services. ###
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House passed the Appropriations Conference Report to fully fund the government for FY 2019. “I am pleased to vote for this government funding bill tonight. Government shutdowns throw our country into chaos and leave federal workers and contractors in limbo. While this conference report isn’t perfect, it’s a compromise and it’s bipartisan. That’s how Congress should work. Included in this funding is a $50 million increases in transportation funding for Connecticut, critical provisions to address the crumbling foundations crisis affecting our state, and a pay raise for federal workers. I urge the President to sign this bill so we can continue to work on real solutions for the American people.” “The President’s decision to declare a National Emergency in order to meet a meaningless campaign promise is an extraordinary abuse of power and a damper on the bipartisan agreement that was reached. As Speaker Pelosi said, on the one-year anniversary of the tragedy in Parkland, we have not even addressed a true National Emergency, the epidemic of gun violence in our country.” ###
02.14.2019	Today, Congressmen John Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) hailed the inclusion of two provisions to help address Connecticut’s crumbling foundations crisis in the final version of the Consolidated Appropriations Act (H.J. Res. 31), a bill to fund the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019. The two provisions, which Courtney and Larson advocated for throughout the appropriations process, are included in the final conference version of the spending bill, which is expected to receive consideration in both chambers of Congress later today. “I am glad to see these amendments included in today’s funding bill. These amendments are another important step to help homeowners affected by crumbling foundations, as well as to learn the true scope of the effects that pyrrhotite is having on buildings throughout New England. I am proud to have teamed up with Joe Courtney to further federal involvement in this crisis,” said Congressman Larson. “Congress took another important step today to help folks affected by crumbling foundations and to acknowledge this crisis on the federal,” said Congressman Courtney. “Two provisions that Congressman John Larson and I authored on this issue were included in today’s Consolidated Appropriations Act, the final conference agreement to fund the government through the end of the fiscal year. While these provisions alone will not solve the crumbling foundations crisis, the unanimous support our proposals received on the House floor in July – and their inclusion in this funding bill – provides strong backing for our ongoing efforts to pool resources on the federal level to help. I’m pleased that the bill will receive a vote today in both the House and Senate, and I urge the President to move to sign it as soon as it arrives on his desk. Moving ahead, I will continue to do all that I can to explore every avenue to identify federal resources to assist homeowners and communities facing this crisis.” Last July, Congressman Courtney and Congressman Larson were successful in passing two related crumbling foundations amendments during the House’s consideration of several funding bills. Both of these amendments passed the House with unanimous support, and were later passed by the Senate as well. Additionally, when both the House and Senate were considering legislation in January to reopen the government amid the partial government shutdown, similar language was considered and passed in both chambers. The first amendment allocates $100,000 for the U.S. Geological Survey to develop a map showing pyrrhotite occurrences across the United States, an important step towards understanding the reach of the problem. The second amendment, which was drafted in coordination with Senator Chris Murphy (CT), would require the Comptroller General of the United States and relevant regulators, under the Department of the Treasury, to direct a study examining the financial impact of the mineral pyrrhotite in concrete home foundations. The study would be required to provide recommendations on the regulatory and legislative actions needed to help mitigate the impact on banks, mortgage lenders, homeowners, and on tax revenue. The inclusion of both amendments in today’s conference agreement comes following a letter written by Congressman Courtney and Congressman Larson to the House Appropriations Committee in December, urging the adoption of both amendments in the final text of any year-end spending bill. The letter can be viewed here. The final inclusion of these proposals came as a direct result of advocacy from Reps. Courtney and Larson on this issue, as well as support from Senators Murphy and Blumenthal, who worked to ensure that these provisions were included in Senate appropriations bills. ###
02.13.2019	In a news conference on Capitol Hill, Congressmembers Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Peter Welch (VT-AL) announced plans to introduce the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act. The legislation will expand access to Medicare to allow those aged 50-64 to buy into the highly successful and popular program, providing millions more Americans who are more likely to have pre-existing conditions and face premium increases as they near retirement with an option for affordable, quality health care. Senators Debbie Stabenow (MI) and Tammy Baldwin (WI) joined the Members of the House at the news conference to announce similar Senate legislation which will also give people the option of buying into Medicare at age 50. Recent polling from the Kaiser Family Foundation has shown that a Medicare buy-in plan for those aged 50-64 was supported by 77% of the public, the highest level of support among any of the plans included in the survey. “The Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act is a simple and commonsense solution that offers one path forward to strengthen our health care system. In a time where our health care system and protections for patients continue to be attacked, it is time that we focus on helping Americans obtain access to quality, affordable health care. This bill does just that. A 60 year old American could see a 40 percent savings in their premium. This legislation would strengthen patient protections and put money back in people’s pockets,” said Larson. Congressman Higgins, a member of the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said: “Medicare has been a reliable and popular health care program for millions of Americans for more than 50 years. Despite the successes of the Affordable Care Act we are still paying too much for health care and this bill would provide the access to high-quality care offered by Medicare to a new segment of the population, improving outcomes at lower costs than we see today. This bill will create more choice for consumers, and as a result help keep down costs and help stabilize our insurance markets.” “The American people have made it extremely clear that health care affordability is the number one issue facing their families, and they expect Congress to put forward real solutions,” said Congressman Courtney. “In crafting this proposal, we have listened to our constituents, many of whom are over age 50 and facing premiums that easily reach over a thousand dollars per month. The Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act provides an additional option for the higher cost consumers who are bearing the brunt of rising premiums, restores the market stabilizing policies that Republicans have undermined in recent years, and equips the Department of Health and Human Services with new tools to drive down prescription costs for seniors. By offering this new population the option to buy into Medicare, this bill would provide an additional, well-respected option to those struggling to afford premiums today.” “This is a practical and common sense way to provide Americans approaching retirement with quality affordable health care,” said Rep. Welch. “I am particularly pleased that this bill includes my legislation to require the federal government to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to lower prescription drug prices for seniors. It’s absurd that Medicare is buying drugs at wholesale but paying retail prices.” Additional original cosponsors of the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act include Representatives: Pete Aguilar (CA-31), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Brendan Boyle (PA-02), Denny Heck (WA-10), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Gregory Meeks (NY-05), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-AL), Collin Peterson (MN-07), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), and Ed Perlmutter (CO-07). The Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act Medicare Buy-In for those Age 50-64, how it works: Participants purchase Medicare coverage (Part A, B, and D, or a Medicare Advantage plan) at-cost, keeping the program budget neutral Plans are offered on the exchanges, providing opportunity for comparison-shopping Those eligible for premium tax credits or cost-sharing reductions could apply them towards their buy-in premium A public Medigap option is created for all Medicare beneficiaries to ensure enrollees are able to access and afford all the benefits they need Authorizes HHS to negotiate volume discounts on prescription drugs to achieve even greater savings in the system to the benefit of all Medicare beneficiaries The Medicare and Medicaid programs were first implemented in 1965 through the Social Security Act. According to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), more than 59 million Americans were enrolled in Medicare in 2018. ###
02.13.2019	Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation applauded $782,931 in federal funding from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to support Long Island Sound (the Sound) research projects conducted by marine scientists at the University of Connecticut (UConn). The funding will be used for projects that will address topics affecting the ecological health of the Sound, including the lack of oxygen in the water column. UConn will be providing $203,730 in matching funds for these projects. “This federal funding is crucial for improving the long-term health and resiliency of the Long Island Sound—one of Connecticut’s most important natural resources. With climate change becoming an increasing threat, this investment in Long Island Sound research is needed now more than ever. We will continue to fight to ensure the Sound remains an environmental gem and economic driver for generations to come,” said the delegation. The research will be supported via a partnership between the Connecticut and New York Sea Grant programs and the EPA through the Long Island Sound Study (LISS) program. Connecticut Sea Grant, located at the UConn Avery Point campus, is a state and federal partnership funded by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and UConn. New York Sea Grant, a cooperative program of Cornell University and the State University of New York, will also receive funding as part of the LISS program. For this round of funding, projects in Connecticut and New York will receive over $1.5 million total. The below Connecticut Sea Grant programs will receive funding: The LIS Respire Program Total: $398,387 The funding will be used to gain a better understanding of how oxygen is being used in the water column of the Long Island Sound and will inform decisions that seek to avoid hypoxia and manage the estuary sustainably amidst coastal population growth and shifting climate. Water Column O2 Respiration – Rates, Distribution, Drivers and Elemental Stoichiometry Total: $384,544 The funding will be used to deploy automated respiration chambers at locations in western Long Island Sound, which is the area most vulnerable to low oxygen conditions. The devices will measure respiration and net ecosystem production at locations chosen for their differences in organic matter content, a major driver of these processes. ###
02.12.2019	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “It was the right thing for Rep. Omar to unequivocally apologize yesterday for her use of an anti-Semitic stereotype. As Speaker Pelosi said, anti-Semitism must be called out and condemned. Comments that invoke anti-Semitism are hurtful to the Jewish community and there is no place for them in the public discourse.”
02.08.2019	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of the former Dean of the House, John Dingell: "It was my honor to serve with John Dingell: to have worked along side him on the issues of our day and to have been a beneficiary of his wisdom. His passing marks a historic milestone. I also have the honor of serving with his wife Debbie and I send my condolences to her and the entire Dingell family.” ###
02.07.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) renewed his call to address our global climate crisis head on. Larson cosponsored the Green New Deal Resolution that is sponsored by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14) in the House and Senator Edward Markey (D-MA) in the Senate. “Climate change isn’t something we can kick down the road any longer, we need to take serious measures to address this issue head on. Just yesterday NASA and NOAA released data showing the last five years are the five hottest on record. This isn’t a partisan issue, this is about facts and science. We all need to join together and take action that will help us sustain a healthy planet. I am proud to cosponsor the Green New Deal resolution as we work to make this a reality,” said Larson. Larson has long been calling for serious measures to be taken to address our global climate crisis. He is the author of the American Wins Act, which would put significant dent in our carbon emissions by taxing pollution at its source and using the revenue to invest in the nation’s infrastructure. ###
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Trump's State of the Union: "The President struck the right tone in calling for bipartisanship. Over the next week, our number one priority needs to be ensuring we fund the federal government. Our nation cannot be thrown into chaos again while our federal workers and contractors go unpaid. “The President’s call to come together and work with Congress to seek solutions for the American people was right. I urge him to work with Congress on issues such as strengthening Social Security, investing in our nation's crumbling infrastructure, and making health care more accessible and affordable. Now the real work begins, and it will be judged by our actions and deeds, not just by promises and words.” ###
02.01.2019	U.S. Representative John Larson (CT-1) and U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) wrote a letter to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson, expressing their concerns with HUD’s failure to address the decrepit housing conditions of multiple HUD-assisted housing complexes in Hartford. In November, the Hartford Courant and NBC News reported on the deplorable conditions of the Infill and Barbour Gardens apartment complexes, both of which scored well below the Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) threshold for a failing score. The housing complexes failed multiple inspections, and the landlords repeatedly failed to make necessary repairs. On Friday, HUD hand-delivered letters to Infill tenants acknowledging the failure of the landlords to take remedial actions and offering tenants the option of obtaining Tenant Protection Vouchers. In their letter, the members of Congress expressed deep concern that HUD has not fully used its enforcement powers to immediately address the woeful conditions, which have jeopardized the health and well-being of residents. “We write with frustration and alarm regarding the Department’s response to decrepit housing conditions in Hartford, Connecticut, and elsewhere, as recently highlighted in a report by NBC News and an article from the Hartford Courant.” the members wrote. “As you know, any failing score immediately triggers enforcement powers the Department can use to address decrepit housing conditions … For instance, if certain conditions are not met, the Department can require the project management of a failing property to be replaced, impose civil penalties, and abate Section 8 contracts. The Department can also transfer the project owner and take any other regulatory or contractual remedies the secretary deems necessary and appropriate,” the members added. “Given the broad enforcement powers at the Department’s disposal, we find the failure to fully and promptly exercise those powers to address the deplorable conditions at the Infill Apartments and Barbour Gardens at best troubling and at worst inexcusable,” the members continued. A copy of the letter is available here and included below: February 1, 2019 The Honorable Dr. Benjamin S. Carson Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: We write with frustration and alarm regarding the Department’s response to decrepit housing conditions in Hartford, Connecticut, and elsewhere, as recently highlighted in a report by NBC News and an article from the Hartford Courant. The NBC News report focused on the Infill Apartments—a fifty-two unit complex in Hartford. On February 1, 2018, the property received a Real Estate Assessment Center (REAC) score of 27, a score that is well below the threshold for failing REAC scores, which is 59. The Courant article highlighted issues at Barbour Gardens, an eighty-four unit complex, which scored an 81 in a February 2018 inspection. Yet by September, the same complex was flagged for over 200 code violations by the City of Hartford. These abstract numbers represent very real and deleterious conditions that jeopardize the health and well-being of residents, and in the case of Barbour Gardens, shows a severe lack of oversight of the quality of REAC scores. Most recently, the property scored 9 out of 100 on an inspection that was completed in October 2018. As you know, any failing score immediately triggers enforcement powers the Department can use to address decrepit housing conditions. Moreover, the FY2017 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations law contained language to enhance the Department’s enforcement powers. For instance, if certain conditions are not met, the Department can require the project management of a failing property to be replaced, impose civil penalties, and abate Section 8 contracts. The Department can also transfer the project owner and take any other regulatory or contractual remedies the secretary deems necessary and appropriate. Given the broad enforcement powers at the Department’s disposal, we find the failure to fully and promptly exercise those powers to address the deplorable conditions at the Infill Apartments and Barbour Gardens at best troubling and at worst inexcusable. We respectfully ask you to explain the repeated delays in enforcement actions against the Infill Apartments’ property owners so we can work with you to ensure such delays do not happen again. We are also asking for an explanation for the huge disparity between the February REAC inspection of Barbour Gardens’ to the City’s September inspection to better understand how HUD controls for the quality of such inspections. More broadly, the issues plaguing these properties may point to broader issues endemic to the Department’s inspection processes, on which hinges the integrity of the Department’s enforcement system. With that in mind, we respectfully ask you to answer the following questions regarding said processes: What actions have HUD taken against the landlords of both Infill and Barbour Gardens? What is the current timeline for corrective actions and what options for relocation are being considered for residents? Will residents who are requesting relocation be allocated vouchers? How do you ensure the quality of your inspectors? What type of training does HUD provide for inspectors, and are certified inspectors required to complete continuing education? What is the standard procedure for de-certifying an inspector, and can a de-certified inspector become re-apply for certification? If so, when? When did the Department last conduct a comprehensive review of its inspection review processes and adjusted its inspection processes accordingly? The Departmental Enforcement Center (DEC) in the Office of the General Counsel was originally created within the Department to address severe delays in enforcement actions. What role did DEC play—if any—in addressing delays in enforcement actions at the Infill Apartments? We share your goal of ensuring that families are not forced to live in housing that is neither safe nor healthy. We look forward to your prompt response and to working with you to immediately remedy the squalid conditions at the Infill Apartments, Barbour Gardens, and at other sites across Connecticut. Sincerely, ###
02.01.2019	Manchester, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognized Howell Cheney Technical High School seniors Isabel Lindsay and Justin Diaz with Certificates of Special Congressional Recognition for designing the winning app, Test Driver’s ED, for the First District’s 2018 Congressional App Challenge. Lindsay is from Windsor Locks, Diaz is from Manchester. This is the fourth year students from Howell Cheney Technical High School have won the competition. “Isabel and Justin’s app is a combination of hard work, perseverance, technology, and education all in one. I offer them both a big congratulations for their efforts,” said Larson. “It is amazing to see such talent in our local students. Their app, Test Driver’s ED, is a testament to the vitality of ideas. Their design started from a single idea, it was then developed and improved upon by them both. I know that with the training they received from Howell Cheney Technical High School, both Isabel and Justin have bright futures ahead. Certainly the skill and creativity they showed today will serve them in all their endeavors. A big thanks to their instructors, Ed Knoeckel (Department Head) and John Buxton (Instructor of Cheney Tech's Information System Technology Shop), for providing the environment for students to learn, thrive, and be creative. Congratulations again to Isabel and Justin on a job truly well done.” The CAC is an opportunity for local high school students in the First District to highlight their STEM skills and apply what they have learned in the classroom. Larson’s office received 16 app submissions from across the First District. 190 Congressional Districts across 42 states participated in the competition. More on the Congressional App Challenge can be found here. ###
01.30.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee, introduced the “Social Security 2100 Act,” H.R. 860, a bill that increases Social Security’s vital benefits while making the system financially strong throughout the 21st century. “Today, over 200 Members of Congress came together on the anniversary of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s birth to honor his legacy, and to enhance and expand the nation’s most successful insurance program, Social Security, which touches the lives of every American. With 10,000 baby boomers becoming eligible for Social Security every day, the time to act is now. The Social Security 2100 Act will provide economic security not just for today’s seniors but for future generations too. “Social Security has not had any significant adjustments made since 1983, when Tip O’Neill was Speaker and Ronald Reagan was President. It’s time for Congress and the President to come together again, just like Speaker O’Neill and President Reagan did to make this a reality. President Trump was the only Republican during the 2016 Presidential campaign who stood up and said he wasn’t going to cut Social Security. The time to expand Social Security is now. Let’s create an actual solution for millions of Americans and get something done,” said Larson. The Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 860, provides the following: An across-the-board benefit increase for current and new beneficiaries An improved cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) that takes into account the true costs incurred by seniors A stronger minimum benefit, so someone who works their whole life does not retire into poverty A tax cut for over 12 million Social Security recipients by eliminating the tax on their benefits Social Security is the most important source of retirement income for 4 out of 5 seniors. It also provides protections to disabled workers and families who have lost a breadwinner. With common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can improve benefits while ensuring Social Security remains finally strong throughout the century. Current cosponsors of the Social Security 2100 Act include Representatives: Alma Adams, Pete Aguilar, Nanette Barragán, Karen Bass, Joyce Beatty, Ami Bera, Donald Beyer, Sanford Bishop, Earl Blumenauer, Lisa Blunt Rochester, Suzanne Bonamici, Brendan Boyle, Julia Brownley, Anthony Brown, Cheri Bustos, G.K. Butterfield, Salud Carbajal, Tony Cárdenas, André Carson, Matt Cartwright, Ed Case, Sean Casten, Joaquin Castro, Judy Chu, David Cicilline, Gil Cisneros, Katherine Clark, Yvette Clarke, Wm. Lacy Clay, Emanuel Cleaver, James Clyburn, Steve Cohen, Gerald Connolly, Luis J. Correa, Joe Courtney, TJ Cox, Angie Craig, Jason Crow, Henry Cuellar, Elijah Cummings, Sharice Davids, Danny Davis, Susan Davis, Madeleine Dean, Peter DeFazio, Diana DeGette, Rosa DeLauro, Suzan DelBene, Val Demings, Mark DeSaulnier, Theodore Deutch, Debbie Dingell, Lloyd Doggett, Mike Doyle, Eliot Engel, Veronica Escobar, Anna Eshoo, Adriano Espaillat, Dwight Evans, Bill Foster, Lois Frankel, Marcia Fudge, Tulsi Gabbard, Ruben Gallego, Jesus “Chuy” Garcia, Sylvia Garcia, John Garamendi, Jared Golden, Jimmy Gomez, Vicente Gonzalez, Al Green, Raúl Grijalva, Deb Haaland, Alcee Hastings, Jahana Hayes, Denny Heck, Brian Higgins, Katie Hill, Jim Himes, Kendra Horn, Steven Horsford, Chrissy Houlahan, Jared Huffman, Sheila Jackson Lee, Pramila Jayapal, Hakeem Jeffries, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Henry Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, William Keating, Robin Kelly, Joseph Kennedy, Ro Khanna, Daniel Kildee, Derek Kilmer, Andy Kim, Ann Kirkpatrick, Ann Kuster, Conor Lamb, James Langevin, Rick Larsen, John Larson, Brenda Lawrence, Al Lawson, Barbara Lee, Andy Levin, Mike Levin, John Lewis, Ted Lieu, Zoe Lofgren, Alan Lowenthal, Ben Ray Luján, Stephen Lynch, Tom Malinowski, Carolyn Maloney, Sean Patrick Maloney, Doris Matsui, Betty McCollum, Donald, McEachin, James McGovern, Jerry McNerney, Gregory Meeks, Grace Meng, Gwen Moore, Joe Morelle, Seth Moulton, Debbie Mucarsel Powell, Jerrold Nadler, Grace Napolitano, Richard Neal, Joe Neguse, Donald Norcross, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Frank Pallone, Jimmy Panetta, Chris Pappas, Bill Pascrell, Donald Payne, Ed Perlmutter, Collin Peterson, Chellie Pingree, Stacy Plaskett, Mark Pocan, Katie Porter, Ayanna Pressley, David Price, Mike Quigley, Jamie Raskin, Kathleen Rice, Cedric Richmond, Harley Rouda, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Raul Ruiz, , C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger, Bobby Rush, Tim Ryan, Gregorio Sablan, Linda Sánchez, John Sarbanes, Mary Gay Scanlon, Janice Schakowsky, Adam Schiff, Kim Schrier, Bobby Scott, David Scott, José Serrano, Terri Sewell, Donna Shalala, Brad Sherman, Albio Sires, Adam Smith, Darren Soto, Thomas Suozzi, Jackie Speier, Greg Stanton, Haley Stevens, Eric Swalwell, Mark Takano, Bennie Thompson, Mike Thompson, Dina Titus, Rashida Tlaib, Paul Tonko, Norma Torres, Lori Trahan, David Trone, Lauren Underwood, Juan Vargas, Marc Veasey, Filemon Vela, Nydia Velázquez, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Maxine Waters, Bonnie Coleman Watson, Peter Welch, Jennifer Wexton, Susan Wild, Frederica Wilson, John Yarmuth Additional quotes, a fact sheet, endorsements, bill language and more are available online here.
01.25.2019	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump announced he has agreed to reopen the federal government: “Nobody wins when the government is shutdown. There is no rational reason why the government should ever close; that federal employees should have to bear the burden of inaction by the President and Congress. We have voted 11 times to open the government in the House this year. I’m glad today an agreement was reached so we can finally open it and get down to the business of debating border security, Social Security, health care, and infrastructure to put the country back to work. “I commend federal employees for their diligence and work at this time. It takes character to work without pay and do a job because you know its vital importance to our nation’s security and to your fellow citizens. We must strive to make sure this never happens again.”
01.24.2019	The respective caucuses of the House Ways and Means Committee selected the leaders of the Social Security Subcommittee, naming Representative John Larson (D-CT) Subcommittee Chairman and Representative Tom Reed (R-NY) ranking member. House Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman John Larson (D-CT), released the following statement following Reed’s selection: “I am delighted that Representative Reed has been selected to be Republican Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. We have a long history of collaboration and service on this subcommittee, and share many common goals, the most vital of which is the need to preserve and strengthen Social Security. I look forward to working with Tom to conduct the committees business in a thorough and bipartisan manner.” Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Tom Reed (R-NY), released the following statement following Larson’s selection: “We care about those who rely on Social Security, and will work together for the American people to protect this program and ensure Social Security is around for future generations. We know John is a great legislator, and we look forward to working with him this Congress.” ###
01.23.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted in favor of two bills that would reopen the government. Larson commented: “Every day the government remains shuttered, the consequences become more severe and the burden placed on federal workers and contractors becomes heavier,” said Larson. “It is unconscionable that our air traffic controllers, TSA agents, border patrol, and other dedicated federal employees are set to miss a second paycheck. The House has voted ten times this year to reopen the government. I urge every Senator to support the Continuing Resolution tomorrow that would reopen the government and end the shutdown now.” ###
01.17.2019	(Hartford, CT)—Today, on the 27th day of the partial federal shutdown, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation sent a letter to U.S. Department of Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta urging the agency to take immediate steps to extend unemployment compensation to federal employees in Connecticut who are working without pay. “In Connecticut, there are approximately 1,500 federal employees who are either furloughed or working without pay. Many of these employees have expressed how they are unable to pay their bills and how this financial stress is affecting their personal and professional lives,” the Delegation wrote in the letter to Secretary Acosta. “This shutdown – despite some comments to the contrary – has had very real impacts on the public, and especially on the federal workers who are either furloughed or working without pay. While ideally, these workers would be paid their hard earned salaries, at the very least they should be able to access unemployment compensation benefits,” the Delegation added. The Delegation pressed the Labor Department to provide guidance to states like Connecticut on how to provide unemployment compensation benefits to federal employees working without pay, waive the work search requirement for furloughed employees and those working without pay who are paid unemployment compensation, and authorize states to provide lenient procedures for those employees to repay those benefits upon return to paid work. In the letter, the Delegation also reiterated support for existing requests to aid federal workers during the federal shutdown, including Governor Ned Lamont’s efforts to change Connecticut’s unemployment compensation laws. The full text of today’s letter is below. January 16, 2019 The Honorable R. Alexander Acosta, Secretary United States Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Secretary Acosta: The country is in the midst of the longest federal government shutdown in history. This shutdown has had a significant and harmful impact on more than 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or ordered to work without pay. These people serve the American public diligently and devotedly and simply do not deserve to be caught in the middle of a shutdown. We are aware that Connecticut Governor Lamont is advocating for state law changes to facilitate the provision of unemployment compensation for these workers in the event the U.S. Department of Labor (USDOL) authorizes states to provide such benefits. The Chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, Representative Richard Neal has requested the USDOL provide guidance to the states on how to ensure unpaid federal workers are able to access unemployment compensation. Finally, we are also aware that other states are looking for USDOL approval for providing unemployment compensation to furloughed and federal employees working without pay in those states. Time is not on the side of federal workers who may miss a second paycheck. We support those requests and urge you to take expeditious action to: Authorize states to provide unemployment compensation benefits to those federal employees who are working without pay; Waive the work search requirement for furloughed employees and those working without pay who are paid unemployment compensation; and Authorize states to provide lenient procedures for these employees to repay those benefits upon return to paid work and to order states not to classify these benefits as overpayments nor subject to penalties or interest. In Connecticut, there are approximately 1,500 federal employees who are either furloughed or working without pay. Many of these employees have expressed how they are unable to pay their bills and how this financial stress is affecting their personal and professional lives. Unemployment compensation would help these workers make ends meet while the date of their next paycheck remains unclear. Further, some federal security employees who must avoid debt that could compromise their work are unable to take out loans. This shutdown – despite some comments to the contrary – has had very real impacts on the public, and especially on the federal workers who are either furloughed or working without pay. While ideally, these workers would be paid their hard earned salaries, at the very least they should be able to access unemployment compensation benefits. We urge your quick, compassionate response to our request. Sincerely,
01.16.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was named the Chairman on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. Larson released the following statement upon the announcement: “I am honored to be selected the Social Security Subcommittee Chairman. Millions of Americans rely on Social Security as either the sole source of retirement income or as the foundation of economic security for retirees, severely disabled workers, and families who have lost a loved one. The committee is charged with a unique focus, a mission of making sure the nation’s most successful insurance program is sustainably solvent for future generations and is meeting the needs of an aging population. Ten thousand baby boomers a day become eligible for Social Security, and the last time the program was addressed in a significant manner, Tip O’Neill was Speaker and Ronald Reagan was President. “We will put forward an aggressive hearing process with expert witnesses to ensure these goals are met. I look forward to working with ranking member Tom Reed on a bipartisan basis to achieve the Committee goals of strengthening and expanding the benefits that the nation’s insurance plan provides.” Larson will introduce the Social Security 2100 Act on President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s birthday, January 30th. More information on the bill can be found here. Larson is also a co-founder of the bicameral Expand Social Security Caucus. Other co-chairs are Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Reps. Terri A. Sewell (D-Ala.), Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.) Conor Lamb (D-PA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ).
01.15.2019	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in response to Congresswoman Jahana Hayes’ (CT-05) appointment to the House Education and Labor Committee. “I congratulate Representative Hayes on her appointment to the House Committee on Education and Labor. Jahana will be an exceptional asset to this committee - from being named the 2016 National Teacher of the Year by President Obama, to the outpouring of support she has received from her former students, her experience as an educator will serve her well. Throughout her years of teaching in Waterbury, Jahana had been a difference maker in the lives of countless families and I am excited to see her continue this work in her Congressional career. The Education and Labor committee has gained a passionate champion for our nation’s children and teachers.” said Larson. ###
01.03.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted to re-open the government and end the partial shutdown. “From the beginning, government workers have been political pawns. Air traffic controllers and TSA workers had to work through the busy holiday season with no pay, workers at the Housing and Urban Development Office in Hartford have been furloughed. This is not how the country should be run. “The House, now led by Democrats has approved legislation that re-opens the government and gives the Senate and the President a path forward that includes a serious debate on border security. However, a border wall is not an efficient or effective way to secure our border, experts across the country have said this time and time again. It’s time for this shutdown to end, work on real solutions, and end this political messaging battle,” said Larson. ###
01.03.2019	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was sworn in again to the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am honored to be sworn in again to represent Connecticut’s First District. Serving the people of Connecticut’s First in Congress has been one of the greatest privileges of my life. I am also thrilled to welcome the newest member of the Connecticut Delegation to Congress, Jahana Hayes, who is a true leader and fighter for the people of Connecticut. “Social Security touches every single American. It is the insurance program that Americans have paid for not an entitlement; that’s why we need to work to expand it and ensure it is solvent for generations to come. Congresswoman Hayes has stepped up and joined us in our effort to expand and enhance the program. I am so proud to be working alongside her on this. “Today, the People’s House returned to the people. Over the past two years Americans have used their voices to stop the repeal of the Affordable Care Act and most recently in electing dozens of Democrats to the halls of Congress. Democrats have now taken control and we will restore regular order and bring on commonsense solutions to help the American people. “I was also especially proud to support Nancy Pelosi as Speaker today. She is the first woman and first Italian-American to be Speaker of the House and I was proud that former State Senator Billy Ciotto was invited by her to partake the swearing in ceremony. Speaker Pelosi has been an strong leader on climate change, election reform, health care, and Social Security, and a dear friend for many years. I congratulate her on her Speakership and am looking forward to her continued leadership in this new Congress.” ###
12.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the impending government shutdown: “Border security is imperative in our nation, however building a $5 billion wall is not the answer and not the security measures our country would need. This funding is a waste of American taxpayers’ hard-earned money. Between Secretary Mattis resigning, the President pulling troops out of Syria and Afghanistan, and the stock market plunging, the President’s decision to have a government shutdown over a border wall is throwing our country into chaos. This is not the way to run our country. “Rep. Will Hurd, a Republican from Texas, who has the largest amount of border in his district, 820 miles, and is a former CIA agent, called the border wall a fallacy and said, ‘It’s not how many miles of a wall that is going to keep us safe, it’s are we keeping bad people and drugs out of our country? And the best way to do that is with technology and manpower. Building a wall from sea to shining sea is the most expensive and least effective way to do border security.’ “We need to listen to the experts, like Rep. Hurd, fund the government, and invest in actual effective ways to protect our borders.”
12.20.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in response to the House of Representatives passing the bipartisan The First Step Act, a bill that takes sensible steps to reforming our criminal justice system. “I was pleased to have voted for The First Step Act as that is exactly what it is, a first step in reforming our antiquated federal criminal justice system. This bipartisan package reduces sentences for non-violent crimes, provides redemption opportunities for low-risk inmates who want to turn their lives around, and incorporates vital education, rehabilitation and training programs to ensure successful reentry into society. The First Step Act shows when both parties in Congress work together we can pass real solutions for the American people. This was truly a step in the right direction for prison reform,” said Larson.
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – After it was announced that Defense Secretary James Mattis was resigning in February, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “James Mattis has served his country with honor and distinction. He is the most highly regarded member of the Trump Cabinet. His knowledge, his ability, his respect, his idealism, and values, have given our allies around the world the confidence that is needed in any administration. A lifetime of service underscored by love of country, honor, and duty, have made him the standup of the Trump Administration. This a great loss for the country. We can only wish him the best. I have nothing but respect for Secretary Mattis and his achievements. I only regret that his absence makes an administration that turns over cabinet members at an unprecedented rate, more unstable, in a time globally, militarily, and economically where we need the stability and leadership of people like James Mattis.”
12.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting NO on another Republican tax proposal that was jammed through the House of Representatives. “Once again, the Republicans have steamrolled another tax bill through the House, absent of any public hearings, expert testimony or constructive debate. This last-ditch effort was reminiscent of last year’s GOP tax bill that was created behind closed doors without regular order and in a partisan fashion. Rather than addressing the crucial failure of their tax agenda to provide hard-working, middle-class families any kind of relief, the House Republicans have instead chosen to force this bill through without any regard for the American people. “The party of so-called fiscal conservatism has now increased the national debt even further with this extra tax bill by more than $100 billion, with no way to pay for it. This bill doubles down on their efforts to line the pockets of the wealthy with tax breaks at the expense of middle class families and our nation’s deficit,” said Larson.
12.15.2018	Hartford, CT - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) denounced the ruling from a U.S. District Court Judge in Texas yesterday, striking down the Affordable Care Act (ACA). "Yesterday's reckless and cruel court decision is an attack on the 133 million Americans with pre-existing conditions and the millions more who have benefited from the ACA's consumer protections, premium subsidies, and Medicaid expansion. The Republican Attorneys General’s attack and the Trump Administration’s refusal to defend the ACA, as well as its public support of the lawsuit, has endangered the gains we have made in protecting people's care and goes against the voices of the American people who spoke up when Republicans tried to repeal the ACA," said Larson. "This cruel decision will be appealed and the House will take immediate action in the new year to strengthen the patient protections in the ACA and join our Democratic Attorneys General, including from Connecticut, in formally intervening in the appeals process. We will fight on behalf of the American people and protect those with pre-existing conditions.” In Connecticut, more than 100,000 people have already re-enrolled in coverage for 2019 and for those who haven't, there is still time to sign up. Open enrollment for Access Health Connecticut is still open until for 2019, to get coverage starting January 1st, you must sign up tonight before midnight, for coverage starting February 1st, you have until January 15th to enroll. The court decision does not impact current coverage or enrollment for 2019. For more information and to enroll, please visit: https://www.accesshealthct.com/AHCT/LandingPageCTHIX ###
12.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement, after the House of Representatives passed the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018. “I was pleased to vote in favor of the 2018 Farm Bill which was spared from the addition of unnecessary work requirements for thousands of First District residents that utilize the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Those requirements would have cut benefits for our most vulnerable who rely on SNAP. This legislation was an example of what can be achieved when two sides of the aisle come together and work on behalf of the country, farmers and families. “I would also like to commend Congressman Joe Courtney for fighting for improvements to the dairy insurance program, which is so important to the small dairy farmers in Connecticut,” said Larson.
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement, after the House of Representatives passed the Improving Medicaid Programs and Opportunities for Eligible Beneficiaries (IMPROVE) Act (H.R. 7217), which included Larson’s bill, H.R. 3730. Larson’s bill would help protect Medicare beneficiaries’ access to specialized, medically-necessary wheelchair accessories by restoring appropriate payment rates to the businesses that supply CRT manual wheelchair accessories. The bill’s Republican co-lead is Rep. Lee Zeldin of New York and it had over 100 bipartisan cosponsors. “I am thrilled that the IMPROVE Act passed the House today with overwhelming bipartisan support. This legislation will help companies, like Rocky Hill’s, Numotion, provide people suffering from degenerative diseases like ALS or who have become paralyzed with the needed equipment to provide them with the tools to live their lives with maximum mobility and independence. I want to thank Rep. Zeldin for all of his hard work and we look forward to its passage in the Senate,” said Larson. Background on the CRT Issue: In 2008, Congress passed the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA), which excluded CRT wheelchairs and accessories from the CMS’ competitive bid process. In November 2014, CMS issued a rule that ignored Congressional intent and would have reduced payments and harmed patient access to CRT wheelchair accessories. This rule was delayed multiple times by Congress through legislation, but only temporarily. Reps. Larson and Zeldin introduced H.R. 1361 (an earlier iteration of H.R. 3730) to protect CRT wheelchair accessories (power or manual) from having their reimbursement rates reduced. On July 23, 2017, CMS agreed to make the changes the Zeldin/Larson bill called for, but only for CRT power wheelchair accessories. Therefore, the members introduced H.R. 3730 to protect reimbursement rates and patients’ continued access to CRT manual wheelchair accessories. These efforts have also been supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst, and the United Spinal Association. ###
12.04.2018	(Hartford, CT)—Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation applauded $1,737,289 in funding from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Long Island Sound Futures Fund (LISFF) to help improve the health and ecosystem of Long Island Sound by spurring efforts to reduce pollution, increase fish diversity and population and enhance greater understanding of Long Island Sound’s ecology. The funds will be used by local organizations and municipalities across Connecticut to support critical conservation projects that benefit the Long Island Sound. The EPA funding will be matched by each grantee. “These federal dollars will help local organizations and municipalities make important improvements to benefit the Sound’s resiliency and unique ecosystem. With climate change becoming an increasing threat to Connecticut’s shoreline-- this funding, along with continued community efforts and advocacy, is needed now more than ever. We remain committed to fighting for the Long Island Sound on a federal level to ensure the Sound remains an environmental treasure, recreational destination, and economic powerhouse for years to come. Today’s funding would not be possible without the advocates who work tirelessly to protect and preserve the Long Island Sound every single day,” said the delegation. The LISFF program combines funds from the EPA and the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation. This year, New York, Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont will receive 36 grants totaling $2.57 million. To date, the LISFF has invested $19.6 million in 416 projects. A detailed breakdown of the funding for Connecticut is below, courtesy of the U.S. EPA’s Long Island Sound Office. LONG ISLAND SOUND FUTURES FUND 2018 PROJECTS CONNECTICUT A Fishway for Pages Millpond Dam (CT) Connecticut Fund for the Environment/Save the Sound Project Area: Farm River, North Branford, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $249,947; Matching Funds: $250,000 Connecticut Fund for the Environment/Save the Sound will construct a steeppass fishway opening 5.35 river miles and 4.25 lake acres of fish habitat for alewife, blueback herring and American eel in North Branford, Connecticut. The project will complete the restoration of this riverine migratory corridor to Long Island Sound for the first time in 300 years. Hepburn Living Shoreline Project (CT) Lynde Point Land Trust Project Area: A 456 linear foot segment of coast on Long Island Sound east of the Katherine Hepburn Estate and west of the mouth of the Connecticut River, Borough of Fenwick, Old Saybrook, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $250,000; Matching Funds: $477,438 The Lynde Point Land Trust will construct a living shoreline along an eroding barrier spit on Long Island Sound in Fenwick, Connecticut. The project will provide protection for the nearby community and a 10-acre tidal marsh protecting from storms and rising waters. A Fishway for the Railroad Pond Dam (CT) Town of Berlin Project Area: Mattabesset River, Berlin, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $250,000; Matching Funds: $147,800 The Town of Berlin will install a fishway at the Railroad Pond Dam in Berlin, Connecticut. The fishway will remove an impediment to passage and open a 12-acre pond and river for fish to pass to Long Island Sound including alewife, blueback herring, sea lamprey and American eel. Planning for Two Fish Passage Projects in Southeastern Connecticut (CT) Connecticut Fund for the Environment/Save the Sound Project Area: Whitford Pond Dam, Whitford Brook, a Mystic River tributary, Stonington, Alewife Cove Dam, Fenger Brook, an Alewife Cove tributary, Waterford, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $99,987; Matching Funds: $100,000 Connecticut Fund for the Environment/Save the Sound will develop engineered designs for fishways at Whitford Pond Dam in Stonington and at Alewife Cove Dam in Waterford, Connecticut. The project will set the stage to provide 4.2 miles of access to spawning, rearing and refuge habitat along two riverine migratory corridors valuable to Long Island Sound diadromous and freshwater fish such as alewife, blueback herring, brook trout, American eel and American shad. Shewville Dam Fishway Design Project (CT) Eastern Connecticut Conservation District Project Area: Shewville Dam and Shewville Brook, Ledyard, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $74,133; Matching Funds: $80,000 The Eastern Connecticut Conservation District will prepare an engineered plan for a steeppass fishway on the Shewville Dam and Shewville Brook in Ledyard, Connecticut. The project will set the stage for the installation of a fishway that will reconnect 4.3 river miles and 152 acres of lake for alewife migration to all historic upstream habitat along a river corridor of Long Island Sound. Addressing the Problem of Microplastics in Long Island Sound Harbors (CT) Center for Environmental Sciences & Engineering and Institute for Materials Science, University of Connecticut Project Area: Four Long Island Sound Harbors: Greenwich, Stamford, Darien and West Haven, and University of Connecticut (UCONN), Storrs, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $99,999; Matching Funds: $99,893 University of Connecticut will investigate microplastics and the impact of this type of pollution in the western Long Island Sound harbors in Connecticut. The project will develop a model monitoring program to assess the extent and impact of microplastic pollution on the water, sediment and oysters of Long Island Sound, educate approximately 100 government and public stakeholders about the problem, and develop management recommendations to address the problem around the Sound. Disconnecting Downspouts and Connecting Partners in the West River Watershed (CT) Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven Project Area: The east side of the West River from its northern border to New Haven Harbor, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $84,035; Matching Funds: $140,000 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven will install 1,000 square feet of Green Infrastructure improvements at residential sites in New Haven, Connecticut. The project will prevent 108,000 gallons of stormwater pollution annually from flowing into the West River and Long Island Sound. SoundWaters Bioextraction Seaweed Farm (CT) SoundWaters Project Area: Greenwich and Stamford Harbors, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $38,307; Matching Funds: $31,534 SoundWaters will install a seaweed farm to bioextract pollution from Greenwich Harbor in Connecticut. The project will educate students, teachers and the public about the benefits of bioextraction through seaweed aquaculture in the waters of Long Island Sound. Bright Green Hartford: Residential Rainwater Management for A Greener, Cleaner and Healthier Hartford (CT) City of Hartford Project Area: City of Hartford, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $177,310; Matching Funds: $89,700 The City of Hartford will provide residents with green infrastructure tools including downspout diverters, rain barrels and street trees in Hartford, Connecticut. The project will reduce 1.8 million gallons of stormwater runoff annually flowing into the Connecticut River and Long Island Sound. Community-driven Nitrogen Action Planning for Southeastern Connecticut Harbors and Bays (CT) The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut Project Area: Mystic River Embayment, Stony Brook/Frontal Fisher's Island Sound, and Pawcatuck River Embayment, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $40,862; Matching Funds: $40,862 The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut will develop a nitrogen action plan for harbors and bays in southeastern Connecticut. The project will identify and prioritize activities to reduce nitrogen pollution entering southeastern Connecticut waters and Long Island Sound. Developing a Natural Resource and Watershed Plan for New London (CT) City of New London Project Area: City of New London, Connecticut LISFF Grants: $35,000; Matching Funds: $21,500 The City of New London will conduct an assessment of the current condition of the city's natural resources and watershed health. This project will develop a plan which provides a concrete vision for a sustainable and resilient urban shoreline community. Water Quality Monitoring to Improve Fairfield County Waterways and Long Island Sound (CT) Earthplace – The Nature Discovery Center, Inc. Project Area: Belden Hill Brook, Deep Brook, Farm Creek, Muddy Brook, Pequonnock River, Pootatuck River, Pussy Willow Brook, Sasco Brook, Saugatuck River, and Silvermine River, Five Mile River Harbor, Norwalk Harbor and Saugatuck Harbor, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $74,493; Matching Funds: $59,594 Earthplace – The Nature Discovery Center, Inc. will conduct water quality monitoring to help improve 10 waterways affected by pollution in Fairfield County, Connecticut. The water quality data collected through this project will be used to inform local government actions to reduce sewage pollution into Long Island Sound. Urban Oases: Community-based Education, Conservation and Outreach to Enhance Habitats around Long Island Sound (CT) Connecticut Audubon Society Project Area: City of New Haven and Town of Hamden, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $44,918; Matching Funds: $46,426 Connecticut Audubon Society will engage teachers, students and community members to enhance urban green spaces in the City of New Haven and Town of Hamden, Connecticut. The project will engage 12,000 people in local environmental education to increase the availability of habitat in urban parks and schoolyards for migrating birds and other wildlife. Rain and Pollinator Gardens for Schools in the Connecticut River Estuary (CT) Connecticut Audubon Society Project Area: Essex, Deep River and Chester, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $15,443; Matching Funds: $12,014 Connecticut Audubon Society will guide student-led planning and installation of rain and pollinator gardens at schools in the Connecticut River Estuary including Essex, Deep River and Chester, Connecticut. This project will enhance existing schoolyard habitats, adding features that reduce 4,675 gallons of stormwater pollution annually while providing students and teachers with an example of sustainable conservation action for Long Island Sound. Schooner Coastal Exploration, Stewardship, and Environmental Education about Long Island Sound (CT) New Haven Land Trust Project Area: Long Wharf Nature Preserve, Quinnipiac Meadows Nature Preserve and New Haven Harbor, New Haven, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $45,000; Matching Funds: $79,000 New Haven Land Trust will provide hands-on educational programming for underserved youth and families through summer camp, on-the-water programs, public education and outreach events, and school-based programs focusing on protection of Long Island Sound water and land resources in New Haven, Connecticut. This project will increase appreciation and awareness of and provide sustainable recreational activities to the Sound for over 800 people. Stormwater Management Programs to Improve Water Quality in New Haven and Long Island Sound (CT) Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven Project Area: Newhallville Neighborhood, New Haven, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $14,398; Matching Funds: $43,335 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven will develop classroom-based programs and community-based, volunteer-driven environmental events in New Haven, Connecticut. The project will educate local residents about how to reduce stormwater from their homes into the West River and Long Island Sound. Engaging New Landscaping Professionals in Non-toxic Landscaping Practices for Long Island Sound (CT) The Northeast Organic Farming Association of Connecticut Project Area: Goodwin College, East Hartford, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $44,937; Matching Funds: $23,200 The Northeast Organic Farming Association of Connecticut will host two educational courses on non-toxic property management practices that reduce non-point source pollution entering Long Island Sound. This project will provide training for approximately 70 local landscapers in English and Spanish to help them transition to practices that decrease common fertilizer, phosphorous and pesticide used to reduce overall nitrogen pollution from entering Long Island Sound. Sound Discoveries – Education through Exploration (CT) Mystic Aquarium Project Area: Mystic Aquarium, Denison Pequotesepos Nature Center and Avalonia Land Conservancy, Mystic, Connecticut LISFF Grant: $8,651; Matching Funds: $5,973 Mystic Aquarium will host an experiential and hands-on environmental education program to immerse students and families in the habitats of Long Island Sound in Mystic, Connecticut. The project will increase knowledge about the natural resources of Long Island Sound and actions people can take to improve it. CONNECTICUT AND NEW YORK Producing and Implementing a Community-supported Long Island Sound Blue Plan (CT, NY) The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut Project Area: Coastal communities in Connecticut and New York that border Long Island Sound LISFF Grant: $44,986; Matching Funds: $51,904 The Nature Conservancy, Connecticut will finalize the Long Island Sound Blue Plan in Connecticut and New York. The project will create a community supported plan to protect marine life in Long Island Sound. Partnering for Marine Debris & Trash Prevention and Animal Rescue around Long Island Sound (CT, NY) Mystic Aquarium Project Area: Mystic, New London, Norwich and Hartford, Connecticut; Fisher's Island, New York LISFF Grant: $44,587; Matching Funds: $46,062 Mystic Aquarium will offer education and stewardship opportunities that focus on the impact of marine debris on marine species, engaging coastal and non-coastal community members in Connecticut and New York. The project will increase public awareness to reduce marine debris, trash and fishing gear from entering Long Island Sound. ###
12.01.2018	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of President George H.W. Bush. “The country lost a great American with the passing of President Bush. Throughout his time in office and afterwards, he always exemplified the dignity of the Office of the President of the United States. “He had a stellar career dedicated to public service from his time in the military to his Presidency and beyond. Our nation will deeply miss him and mourn him. “My sympathies go out to President George W. Bush and the entire Bush family.” ###
11.26.2018	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement upon the news of the passing of Dr. James Billington, who served as the 13th Librarian of Congress. Larson worked closely with Dr. Billington as Ranking Member of the House Administration Committee. “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. James Billington. Working with him was like working with a mixture of Gandolf and Dumbledore, because of his knowledge and wisdom. He was the sage of the nation, the epitome of intellect, grace, and class. He was all that you would want in the Librarian of Congress, the gate keeper of truth and the cumulative knowledge of the nation’s heritage, culture, and literature. Dr. Billington was a national treasure and this is a great loss to the country,” said Larson. ###
11.05.2018	Bristol, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Bristol resident and U.S. Marine Corps Veteran Gary Wycko with his service medals. Wycko served during the Vietnam War from 1966 to 1968. Larson presented Wycko with his Combat Action Ribbon, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service medal with one Bronze Campaign Star and the Republic of Vietnam Meritorious Unit Citation (Gallantry Cross Color with palm and frame) ribbon bar. “The Vietnam War reminds us of the distinction between the warrior and the war,” said Larson. “Vietnam veterans served our country bravely and sacrificed greatly for our freedom, but came home to a public largely indifferent to their struggles. We must never let that happen again. Veterans, like Gary Wycko exemplify the meaning of service. I was honored to present Mr. Wycko with his medals today and to express gratitude on behalf of our nation.”
10.31.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02), Congressman Jim Himes (CT-04), and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) released the following statements on a new House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Committee report, which shows that 168,000 people in Connecticut could be denied coverage or see drastic premium increases due to the Administration’s actions to undermine the Affordable Care Act. By refusing to defend the 2010 law in federal court and failing to offer any alternative proposals to protect individuals, the Trump Administration is putting women, seniors, and those with pre-existing conditions at great risk of losing coverage. “The Affordable Care Act put in desperately needed protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions such as cancer, asthma, or diabetes, who had previously been charged more for health insurance or outright denied coverage. Those protections reversed a longstanding discriminatory practice that allowed women, to be charged more for health coverage, and reduced premiums for older Americans. Yet, the Republicans who could not repeal the law and never had a real plan to replace it – have now simply chosen to sabotage it. I will continue to fight for patient rights on the Ways and Means Committee to ensure that every person in the First District can get the coverage they need, without discrimination based on age, gender, or pre-existing conditions,” said Congressman Larson. “Guaranteeing access to health care for the millions of Americans living with pre-existing conditions has been one of the most important legislative victories for the American people since the passage of Medicare and Medicaid. It has been lifesaving,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Yet Republicans have voted more than 70 times to repeal these protections for millions of Americans—including 35,000 in the Third District alone. That is unconscionable. We must continue defending those with pre-existing conditions, as my colleagues and I in the Congress from Connecticut have done every single day. It is the smart thing to do and the right thing to do.” “Despite what Republicans and the Trump Administration may say, their actions clearly demonstrate a disregard for people with pre-existing conditions,” said Congressman Courtney. “If Trump is successful, tens of thousands of eastern Connecticut residents would lose their coverage or face premium hikes. We know that full coverage for chronic and pre-existing health conditions can mean the difference between financial stability and bankruptcy, which is why these provisions are among the most important in the ACA. We won’t go back to a time when a cancer diagnosis could mean financial ruin, or childhood asthma meant a 50% mark up.” “168,000 people in CT are at risk of losing their coverage including 45,000 in the 4th District alone,” said Congressman Himes. “Our delegation will continue to fight to protect Connecticut families against the sustained Republican attacks to strip away their care, especially as those same politicians try to rewrite history about their past efforts to dismantle the entire system. Sick people need help. They need healthcare. Those are our values.” "Everywhere I go in Connecticut, I hear from people who are afraid that they will be collateral damage in the Trump Administration’s crusade to undermine the Affordable Care Act,” said Congresswoman Esty. “The Affordable Care Act prevents insurance companies from denying coverage for pre-existing conditions, ends lifetime limits on coverage, provides free preventive care, and allows young adults to remain on a parent’s insurance until the age of 26. Attempts to undermine the Affordable Care Act puts politics before American lives. Without the Affordable Care Act, people with pre-existing conditions will lose the protection they have and risk facing bankrupting medical bills, as all too many Americans did before the Affordable Care Act. People who are struggling with addiction or mental illness risk not receiving the treatment they need to restore their lives. And parents could once again be forced to make a gut-wrenching choice between keeping their life savings and keeping their child alive. We cannot allow this to happen. I am committed to ensuring that families throughout Connecticut continue to have access to quality, affordable health care.” The Democratic Staff of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s report, “Trump Administration Actions Threaten People with Pre-Existing Conditions,” can be found here.
10.30.2018	Enfield, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented the family of the late-Korean War Veteran, Luther Cuffee, with his service medals. His grandson, Jacob Cipriano accepted the medals on his grandfather’s behalf. Cuffee’s daughter Soncerae Cipriano and her husband Christopher were also in attendance. Cuffee served in the United States Air Force from 1951 to 1956, which included a tour in Korea. He retired as an Airman Second Class. He was awarded the National Defense Medal, the United Nations Korean Service Medal, the United National Service Medal, and the Good Conduct Medal. Jacob was presented those awards by Congressman Larson. Jacob is currently a student at the CREC Civic Leadership High School in Enfield where the ceremony was held and is a member of the Civil Air Patrol. “I was honored to present the family of Luther Cuffee with his service medals today. The Korean War has been called the ‘Forgotten War’ but should be called the ‘Forgotten Victory.’ It is always a tremendous privilege to honor Korean War veterans who fought so bravely for their country. Luther’s service and sacrifices will never be forgotten,” said Larson.
10.26.2018	This Op-Ed originally appeared in The Hill. Newsflash to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell(R-Ky.) - Social Security is not an entitlement. It is the insurance every working American has paid for. Sen. McConnell is wrong when he calls these programs entitlements and blames them for the rising deficit. It’s the Republican tax agenda not Social Security that will add nearly $3 trillion to the deficit over the next decade – helping the super-rich buy private jets or giving heirs of the 5,500 wealthiest estates a $7 billion tax cut on their inheritance. Sen. McConnell was clear, they plan to pay for these cuts by going after Social Security and Medicare. Over the years, Republicans have tried to privatize it, label it as a welfare or entitlement program, and make cuts to the benefits workers have earned. Americans do not regard the nation’s insurance program as a political football, but as an essential part of their well being. I agree with Sen. McConnell, when the Democrats take control of the House, there will be an opportunity to fix Social Security in a non-partisan, straight-forward way. I credit President Trumpfor standing up to Republicans and recognizing that American citizens fully understand that these are the benefits they have paid for; not entitlements. Still, Republicans in Congress insist on denigrating the contributions that American workers pay by calling Social Security an “entitlement.” Social Security isn’t an entitlement; it is the insurance that Americans worker pay for. They see it on their paystubs: FICA stands for the Federal Insurance Contribution Act. With 10,000 baby boomers a day becoming eligible for Social Security, now is the time to act. Whether you’re in a blue state or red, or live in an urban area or rural, Americans rely and understand that Social Security needs to be fixed. Social Security is the largest source of retirement income, and for 6 out of 10 seniors, it provides the majority of their income. For 1 out of every 3 seniors, Social Security provides 90 percent of more of their income. It is time for Congress to act in a responsible manner. The last time Congress did anything meaningful to adjust Social Security was when Rep. Tip O’Neill (D-Mass.) was Speaker of the House and Ronald Reagan was president. They understood that this was an insurance problem that needed congressional attention to make it actuarily sound. That was 1983. Newsflash! Have any private insurance premiums not gone up since 1983? Of course they have and Congress needs to make the same commonsense adjustments. That’s why we have launched the Expand Social Security Caucus, with Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and our co-chairs, with over 150 congressional members. We believe in the value of Social Security and we will fight – not just to protect – but to enhance and expand this essential insurance program. The Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902) is our commonsense solution forward to expand and protect Social Security. It has the support of 170+ Democratic members of Congress, and has many Republicans interested in it. It will strengthen and improve Social Security for current and future generations; providing a 2 percent benefit bump, improving the cost-of-living adjustment, strengthening the minimum benefit, and allowing for tax relief for millions of working seniors. It doesn’t add a penny to the deficit and is fully paid for as confirmed by the Social Security Administration’s Office of the Chief Actuary. Polling shows that the majority of Americans don’t mind paying into Social Security because it provides security and stability to millions of retired Americans, disabled individuals, children, and widowed spouses of deceased workers. Proposals like the Social Security 2100 Act show that we can strengthen Social Security without cutting benefits or raising the retirement age. Americans of all ages and across the political spectrum support Social Security, because they know it works and will be there for them when they need it. They deserve leaders in Congress who will fight for them – not gut their benefits after a lifetime of contributions. They deserve to have Social Security treated like the insurance program it is, and not an entitlement. Larson represents Connecticut’s 1st District and is ranking member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security.
10.23.2018	Hartford, CT – Today Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 was signed into law, which contained a provision Larson fought to include, directing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to conduct expedited feasibility reports on repairing the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems: “These levee systems keep the communities of Hartford and East Hartford safe and protect critical infrastructure for the region. However, the Army Corps of Engineers has identified repairs to these aging systems that are needed to prevent the risk of a catastrophic flooding event. The signing of the 2018 federal water resources bill is a crucial step for Hartford and East Hartford to gain eligibility for federal funding to rehabilitate these levees. Extreme weather events that increase in likelihood due to climate change are more reason to take this threat seriously. I express my gratitude to Chairman Bill Shuster and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio for working with me on this issue and for their hard work on this bipartisan bill. I’d also like to thank Senator Blumenthal and Senator Murphy for championing these provisions through the Senate,” said Larson. The Hartford and East Hartford levee systems were originally constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers after catastrophic flooding during the hurricanes of 1936 and 1938. For over 70 years, the levees have protected both of these communities from the risk of flooding, however, the Army Corps has identified serious deficiencies that will require significant repairs if these aging systems are going to hold up. On the Hartford side alone, the system protects a significant portion of the city’s grand list including prime commercial, institutional, and residential real estate. Failure of the levees would jeopardize the I-84/I-91 interchange, the state’s largest waste-water treatment plant, among other critical infrastructure for the region. Congress traditionally takes up a WRDA bill every two years to authorize new water projects such as levees, dams, and harbors, and to provide direction to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. WRDA 2018 directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of a feasibility report on rehabilitation of the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. Competition of the feasibility report is a required step in the U.S. Army Corps’ project development process before a project can proceed to rehabilitation work. This is a critical step towards getting federal funding to make necessary repairs to the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems.
10.22.2018	(Hartford, CT) - Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that the IRS Stakeholder Liaison will be conducting a free webinar on Wednesday, October 24, at 10:00 AM for tax preparers and homeowners who would like to learn more about deducting the cost of crumbling foundations repairs from their taxes. Last week, Courtney and Larson announced that the IRS had issued a clarification that homeowners can “carry forward” or “carry back” a net operating loss under the casualty loss deduction for crumbling foundations repairs. This clarification means that even if the net loss suffered by a homeowner exceeds their annual tax liability, they can carry forward the loss for up to 20 years and can carry back for two years. “We want to get the word out that the IRS will be holding a free webinar that tax preparers and homeowners can learn more about recent development on tax deductions for foundation repairs,” said Courtney and Larson. “Last week, we announced that the IRS has made it clear that homeowners can “carry forward” or “carry back” a net operating loss under the casualty loss deduction for crumbling foundations repairs. This clarification means that even if the net loss suffered by a homeowner exceeds their annual tax liability, they can carry forward the loss for up to 20 years and can carry back for two years. This development will provide significant help for middle-class homeowners, and we want to get the word out about how they can start using this deduction when they go to file next spring.” The web conference will feature a discussion of the qualifying rules for claiming casualty losses related to deteriorating concrete foundations caused by the mineral pyrrhotite; including an overview of Rev Proc 2017-60. Also, a discussion of the deductibility of payments after 2017 made to repair these foundations as found in Rev Proc 2018-14. Payments made in 2018 and beyond may still be deductible as casualty losses. The webinar will take place on Wednesday, October 24, at 10:00 AM until 11:00 AM with a Q and A afterwards. The IRS has provided a link where tax preparers and homeowners can register to participate in the free event. ###
10.16.2018	(Hartford, CT) – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had provided them with clarifying information that will offer additional tax relief to homeowners with crumbling foundations. First, the IRS has announced that they will allow homeowners to “carry forward” or “carry back” a net operating loss should their casualty loss exceed their annual tax liability. This clarification means that even if the net loss suffered by a homeowner exceeds their annual federal tax liability, they can carry forward that loss for up to 20 years. Second, the IRS has clarified that homeowners can claim up to 100% of their annual tax liability against their casualty loss, despite the GOP tax law that was signed in December 2017 and limited claims to 80%. Finally, the IRS will allow taxpayers with a net operating loss to “carry back” their losses for two years – a provision that the GOP tax law had eliminated as well. “Today, the federal government has once again said ‘yes’ to helping homeowners struggling with the cost and damage of crumbling foundations. This clarification of the tax revenue procedure that we announced last year is going to have significant implications for middle-class homeowners whose repair costs exceed their annual income,” said Courtney and Larson. “It also builds on the critical development we announced last year that the IRS would allow homeowners to claim a casualty loss on their 2017 return to recoup the costs of repairing a home foundation. “We are grateful for the continued attention of the IRS and Treasury Department to this crisis in Connecticut, and the support they have provided today to homeowners struggling with the damage caused by crumbling foundations. Also, we are grateful to have had the support of the Connecticut Society of Certified Public Accountants and their Executive Director, Bonnie Stewart, in this effort.” In August, Courtney and Larson sent a letter to the IRS, requesting information on how a homeowner with a crumbling foundation who was eligible for a “casualty loss” deduction could carry that deduction back, or carry it forward after the GOP tax law changed the criteria for taking this sort of a loss. Bonnie Stewart, Executive Director of the Connecticut Society of Certified Public Accountants (CTCPA), wrote in a letter of support for Courtney and Larson’s request to the IRS, that, “Simply stated, in the vast majority of cases, the cost of repairing a crumbling foundation will far exceed the amount of taxes a homeowner will pay in a given year. Thus, the taxpayer would not be able to deduct the total amount of their crumbling foundations casualty loss. Granting a new net loss carryforward in these cases would provide homeowners with the ability to deduct their loses over a specified period. “ Specifically, the members requested technical clarification on how or whether a taxpayer could carry forward a net operating loss if their casualty loss exceeded their income. The GOP tax law changed the parameters for both casualty losses and net operating losses, and Courtney and Larson had previously worked with the IRS to protect homeowners with crumbling foundations from the negative effects of the new tax law. In February of 2018, the IRS provided clarification allowing crumbling foundations homeowners safe harbor, so that they could still take a crumbling foundations casualty loss deduction, even though the GOP tax law eliminated casualty loss deductions for all situations except for Presidentially-declared disasters. In addition, the law restricted the Net Operating Loss, so that taxpayers would not be able to “carry back” a Net Operating Loss and could only use a loss to offset 80% of their taxable income in a given year. However, as a result of the letters sent to IRS from Courtney and Larson, as well as support from the Connecticut Society of Certified Public Accountants (CTCPAs), the IRS finally released information allowing crumbling foundations homeowners to take a Net Operating Loss, carry it forward for twenty years, carry it back for two years, and use the loss to offset the full 100% of their taxable income in a given carryback or carryforward year. This was an organic process that followed from the release of the original Revenue Procedure from the IRS, through feedback from the tax preparer community and meetings with homeowners throughout Connecticut. Prior to the release of this information, Courtney and Larson were concerned that taxpayers with more modest incomes would not be able to benefit fully from the casualty loss deduction. This information from the IRS is a huge victory for all homeowners with crumbling foundations, especially those with lower incomes – and will allow these homeowners to receive federal tax assistance for up to twenty years.
10.12.2018	Hartford, CT – Today Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after learning the news that Joe Marfuggi, former President of the Riverfront Recapture passed away: “I was saddened to learn of Joe’s passing and my heart goes out to his wife, Sherry Brown, his entire family and friends. He was a true visionary who understood the potential of Connecticut by transforming the riverfront in order to pull our community together. His leadership and vision are still with us and we hope to build on this vision and legacy by continuing to capture the river for Hartford, as well as towns like East Hartford, Wethersfield, Windsor, Rocky Hill, Glastonbury and others,” said Larson.
10.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that there will be a 2.8 percent increase in the cost-of-living-adjustment (COLA) for Social Security benefits received beginning in January 2019. “Today’s announcement of a 2.8 percent Social Security cost-of-living adjustment is good news for seniors, people with disabilities, and other beneficiaries who depend on Social Security. However, more must be done since for two-thirds of retirees, Social Security is the majority of their income. These are already modest benefits; especially for low-wage earners, women, and especially women of color,” said Larson. “Seniors have been seeing rises in food, gas, housing, and medical costs, without always receiving adequate increases in the COLA. Several years ago, our seniors faced a COLA of zero percent. We must do better and work towards a comprehensive solution. “The Social Security 2100 Act, which has the support of 174 cosponsors, would provide a much-needed benefit bump, cut taxes for millions of working seniors, and strengthen Social Security for generations to come. Let’s stand up against calls to gut these earned benefits and instead fight for a solution that protects the insurance that Americans have paid into their entire working lives.” The COLA is set according to a formula in the Social Security Act based on the increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as determined by the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. The COLA for 2018 was 2 percent. To see previous COLA amounts, see the Social Security Administration’s website here. ###
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C.–Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-1), Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and Congressman Tom Reed (NY-23) introduced H.Res.1115, which would express support for designating October 8, 2018 as National Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Day. The date October 8 was chosen because it is symbolic of the atomic weight of hydrogen (1.008). Connecticut’s hydrogen and fuel cell supply chain employs 2,834 workers and contributes over $600.8 million in revenue and investment to the regional economy. Hydrogen is a nontoxic gas that can be derived from a variety of traditional and renewable resources, including solar, wind, biogas, and natural gas. The United States produces and uses more than 11,000,000 metric tons of hydrogen per year. “As the co-chair of the Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, I am proud to join with Congresswoman Esty in introducing a resolution marking October 8th as National Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Day. Fuel Cells use our atmosphere’s most abundant element, hydrogen to create clean energy. Connecticut is the Fuel Cell Capital and the industry supports thousands of jobs in our state,” said Larson. “Every day we are seeing the effects of climate change, and supporting advanced energy technologies like fuel cells are the way to move us forward.” “On October 8, we recognize the pivotal role the hydrogen and fuel cell industry plays in developing technology that is good for our environment and our economy, while supporting long-term economic growth in our state,” said Esty, a member of the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology. “Connecticut is a world leader in hydrogen and fuel cell energy systems manufacturing, and we need to invest in these technologies that have poised us to get to this point. With the rising threat of climate change, it is important now more than ever that we develop clean, affordable, and reliable energy sources." “Hydrogen and fuel cell technology is critical in guaranteeing our children and grandchildren have a fair shot at a clean and vibrant environment. We care about working to promote alternative and renewable energy sources through our tax code, and will continue to do so, in order to safeguard our environment, protect our national interests and create jobs,” said Reed. “FuelCell Energy is proud of the support from our Connecticut legislative leaders, providing a platform to raise awareness of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies,” said Chip Bottone, FuelCell Energy President and CEO. “Fuel Cells provide reliable and resilient power, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and improve America’s energy security. FuelCell Energy’s global fleet of SureSource™ fuel cell power plants, made in America, leads the industry with over 8 million megawatts of ultra-clean power produced, meeting the needs of customers across several industries, including utility companies, municipalities, universities, government entities and a variety of industrial and commercial enterprises.” “The fuel cell and hydrogen industry is extremely grateful for all of the work Representatives Esty have done to help advance this clean, reliable power generation technology. As we celebrate National Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Day, we look forward to the coming years as the American people experience more economic, environmental, and national security benefits of this transformational technology,” said Morry Markowitz, President of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association. The United States, which is a world leader in the development and deployment of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies, relies on the technology to for several of its space programs, including the historic mission of landing a man on the Moon. Increasingly, more municipalities, private industries, colleges and universities, and laboratories are relying on improving fuel cell and hydrogen technologies to address the most pressing energy, environmental, and economic issues across the country. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) introduced the Senate companion, S.Res.664, on October 1, 2018, where it passed with unanimous consent. ###
10.05.2018	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that Barkhamsted-based Tru-Hitch, Inc. has received a $10.6 million contract from the U.S. Army for the procurement of critical components of the Army’s Modular Catastrophic Recovery Systems. “Tru-Hitch Inc. was recently awarded a three year contract with the U.S. Army for new production. The contract will be for additional MCRS (Modular Catastrophic Recovery Systems) that support combat brigades on recovery missions as well as other towing and recovery requirements. The systems will be manufactured at Tru-Hitch's Torrington and Barkhamsted facilities. Congressman Larson has recognized the cost savings and efficiency of using the Tru-Hitch MCRS over other recovery equipment,” said Tru-Hitch, Inc. President Martin Marola. “This is terrific news for Marty Marola and his team in Barkhamsted and Torrington. Tru-Hitch has been working with the U.S. Army for over 26 years and has produced over 600 recovery devices, ” said Congressman Larson. “The military knows it can rely on Tru-Hitch to meet its MRCS needs, and the women and men of our military can rely on the quality of Tru-Hitch’s devices. Under Marty’s leadership, Tru-Hitch continues to provide steady work for its 28 employees as well as support for the local economy.” Tru-Hitch, Inc. produces the XM20 FWTRD (Fifth Wheel Towing and Recovery Device), and the XM1234 TDRT (Tilt Deck Recovery Trailer) to meet the Towing and Recovery needs of the U.S. Army both now and for the future. Tru-Hitch is headquartered in Barkhamsted, CT and has a manufacturing facilities in both Barkhamsted and Torrington, CT. ###
10.04.2018	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after CVS committed to keeping Aetna in Hartford for at least 10 years. “Aetna’s home has been in Hartford since 1853. I applaud Aetna, CVS, and CVS CEO Larry Merlo for making the commitment to stay in the city. Hartford is the insurance capital of the world, and it will continue its long legacy for years to come. Aetna is a value-added company for Connecticut that has always invested in its workforce. This is wonderful news for the city and state,” said Larson. ****** The CVS Health Corporation delivered to the Connecticut Insurance Department a commitment keep Aetna's headquarters in Hartford for at least the next 10 years, maintain its current staffing levels for at least the next four years, and it's joint pledge with the Travelers and The Hartford to contribute a total of $50 million to the City of Hartford. The first $10 million has already been paid to the city to support the Hartford Public Library, city law enforcement, and recreation. ###
10.01.2018	Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that the University of Hartford Magnet School in West Hartford, CT has been recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School for 2018 by the U.S. Department of Education. Each school will receive a National Blue Ribbon plaque and a flag in honor of its status. “Congratulations to Principal Tim Barber, the staff, teachers, parents, and especially the students of the University of Hartford Magnet School for being recognized as a model of excellence,” said Larson. “This coveted award signifies that the school has not only achieved academic excellence, but has created a safe and welcoming environment for children to learn and grow. The unique curriculum at the magnet school, based on the theory of Multiple Intelligences, allows all students to discover their individual talents and strengths. I am extremely proud to have such a wonderful school and community in my district, and thrilled they have been recognized with this award.” The University of Hartford Magnet School was one of 349 public and private schools chosen for this award nationwide. You can find more information about the National Blue Ribbon Schools program here. ###
10.01.2018	It’s time for the Hartford region to think big again. For too long, we’ve heard naysayers tell us that the solutions to our infrastructure problems are too big, too bold, too expensive. For too long we’ve accepted the status quo. It’s time we use Connecticut engineering and Yankee ingenuity to find solutions to pressing problems. Let’s follow in the footsteps of our Connecticut ancestors. They knew long ago, without vision, there is no victory. We can’t keep repeating the mistakes of the past 50 years. Currently, the I-84 and I-91 interchange is ranked as the 24th biggest bottleneck in the country and second in New England. Our highways are in a state of disrepair, the North End of Hartford is cut off from the rest of the city, we’re blocked from the riverfront, and, most urgently, our levees are in danger of collapsing. Most people don’t realize that the levees protecting Hartford and East Hartford are threatened by something called sand piping. Sand piping causes erosion underneath the dikes that can lead to collapse. It is the same phenomenon that caused levees to collapse in New Orleans during Hurricane Katrina. The North End of Hartford is struggling because it is cut off from downtown businesses by the Aetna Viaduct, a multi-lane, elevated highway. Our beautiful Connecticut River is blocked by another interstate highway, I-91. Imagine, if you could visit Coltsville National Historical Park, walk across a local boulevard and enjoy a park by the river, without a highway blocking you. Now is the time to act on a once-in-a-generation opportunity to transform our region by pursuing a tunnel solution for I-84 and I-91. This is more than a transportation project, it’s about economic vitality, growth for the region, and creating livable communities. It would put our surface highways underground, separating through traffic from local traffic and reconnecting our neighborhoods with an urban boulevard system designed to accommodate pedestrian, bicycle and automobile traffic. It would allow us to recapture the riverfront, shore up the levee system, and open up space for recreation and economic development. Some of the current proposals that are under consideration will repair the aging viaduct, but don’t address these other concerns. Worse, they would require shutting down the city for years during construction. Tunneling allows for a turnkey operation that keeps traffic open during construction. The I-84/I-91 tunnel proposal is about having a lasting plan that solves problems and meets the needs of Hartford and the surrounding towns. It’s not cast in stone, and it will involve continual public involvement to address all concerns. Principal to those concerns is that we recapture our riverfront, repair our levees, reunite the city of Hartford, and have a viable economic and transportation plan for generations — without having to shut down the city for years. I’ve looked at tunnel projects across the country to see how they’ve changed cities. In the U.S., recent highway tunnel projects have been constructed in Seattle, Miami, and Hampton Roads, Virginia. This technology is being utilized around the world and is continually getting better. In fact, right now, the MDC is constructing a 4-mile, 18-foot diameter wastewater tunnel in our own backyard underneath Hartford without above-ground disturbance. I recently invited a delegation from Seattle to Hartford to share their experience on their city’s tunnel project. There are a lot of similarities between the two cities’ infrastructure: They had an aging viaduct, their waterfront was cut off, and their seawall was deteriorating. Seattle opted for a tunnel solution. Construction has been completed and it will soon open to traffic. Already, the project has spurred $1 billion in private sector investment with event more anticipated once the viaduct is removed and a 20-acre waterfront park opens in its place. Think of the investment we would see in Hartford if we built an expansive riverfront park where I-91 currently stands. Many people are also concerned about financing such a large project; however, I believe it is time for Connecticut to get its fair share of federal funding. We’re a donor state. We send more to Washington than we get back, and we’re happy to do it if it means we can fund education, environmental programs, and take care of our men and women in the military. In the next Congress there will be an infrastructure package. We need to be prepared with a long-term solution for Greater Hartford so we can take advantage of it. We have a choice to make: We can either accept a 50-year-old mistake or think big and pursue a once-in-a-generation opportunity to restore and revitalize Hartford around its river. Our predecessors, Samuel Colt and Fred Rentschler, did just that by mass producing precision parts and designing an air-cooled aircraft engine respectively. To me, the choice is simple. Let’s follow their lead, think big again and make this happen. John B. Larson is the U.S. representative for the 1st District. http://www.journalinquirer.com/public/i--i--tunnel-proposal-is-about-thinking-big/article_baacabea-bd73-11e8-92cb-afa1595adaf5.html
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) fought back against Republicans attacks on Social Security and Medicare in order to pay for their harmful tax bills. Larson introduced a Motion to Recommit the Republican Tax Plan 2.0 (H.R. 6760) back to the Ways and Means Committee. His amendment would not allow the GOP tax bill to go into effect if it harmed Social Security and Medicare. The Motion ultimately failed and Larson voted against the Republican plan. “Today the Republicans showed their true colors, they wouldn’t even commit to my amendment that said nothing in this bill would take effect unless and until it had been certified that the bill would not harm the Medicare and Social Security Trust Funds. For two-thirds of seniors, Social Security is the vast majority of their income. Consider that 10,000 Baby Boomers a day are becoming eligible for retirement. My Republican colleagues are paying for tax reform on the backs of American seniors - by forcing devastating cuts to Social Security and Medicare at the moment seniors will need them the most. These aren’t entitlements, they are the insurance that Americans have paid for and earned through a lifetime of work,” said Larson. Click here to view Larson’s remarks. ###
09.27.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Today’s hearing is focused on the Social Security Administration’s information technology (IT) systems and the major, multi-year initiative to modernize them. Let me start by acknowledging this will likely be the last hearing led by my good friend who is retiring, Chairman Sam Johnson. I’ll touch more on this at the end of my remarks, but it has truly been an honor to serve alongside of you in Congress, on the Ways and Means Committee, and on this Subcommittee. With that, today’s hearing is about the Social Security Administration modernizing their IT systems – and I’d like to highlight a few important points: IT is critical for the agency to successfully administer its programs, serve the public, and operate efficiently amid constrained budgets and greater needs. There is a recognition that the Social Security Administration can no longer build on and patch its decades-old systems, which are increasingly outdated, inefficient, and expensive to maintain. Managing the transformation of the agency’s IT also requires continuity of leadership at the Social Security Administration. And I am glad to see that Social Security is in good hands in that regard with Deputy Commissioner and Chief Information Officer Mathur. Congress must continue supporting Social Security’s IT modernization by providing sufficient resources. It is my hope that we can learn more today about what IT modernization will bring to the Social Security Administration and how it will improve service for beneficiaries who have earned their benefits through a lifetime of work. I also want to mention the new law to combat synthetic identity theft. The Social Security Administration is building a new system so that banks can verify Social Security numbers, with the consent of the consumer. We need a good verification system that functions efficiently for the Social Security Administration and the financial industry, but at the same time we need to make sure that sensitive personal data is protected. The Social Security Administration has a strong track record on protecting its IT systems and the millions of sensitive records it stores on all of us. We expect the agency to maintain that tradition of security and privacy as it builds this new system. And with that, Mr. Chairman, I want to say how proud I am of our work together to pass bipartisan and much-needed legislation to strengthen and improve the representative payee program for our most vulnerable beneficiaries – including children, people with disabilities, and seniors suffering from dementia. Chairman Johnson has always been an honest broker who has placed the interests of the nation above all else. So, it is a fitting recognition that this room is named in honor of Chairman Johnson. I again recognize your distinguished service to the state of Texas, the United States Congress, and the country as a true American hero. Thank you. ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted to pass the Fiscal Year 2019 Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. “I was proud to vote to pass this bipartisan spending agreement, that will continue to fuel Connecticut’s thriving defense manufacturing base, supporting high-skilled jobs and billions of dollars of economic activity in the First District. From Pratt & Whitney to our almost 160 small & medium sized manufacturers like ACMT in Manchester, the ingenuity of Connecticut’s high-skilled workforce keeps the eagle flying. Work on the F-35 alone supports more than 4,600 jobs in the First District, resulting in $545 million in economic activity. This is the second year in a row that more than 90 F-35s were ordered, and this is a big win for our district. Along with my fellow co-chair of the Joint Strike Fighter Caucus, Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL), we led the request for 93 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters to be included in this bill. I was honored to work with him to boost Connecticut’s economy and continue to support our men and women in uniform. This funding for the F-35 program, our submarines, and our military’s helicopter programs will ensure that our military has the tools they need and continues to have an enormous economic impact on our state,” said Larson. “Thanks to the tireless efforts of Connecticut’s own Rosa DeLauro, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, we are also increasing federal investments in programs that families in the First District depend on to put food on the table and send their kids to school. We are dedicating new resources towards the fight against the opioids epidemic, for our community health centers that care for our most vulnerable residents, for education and apprenticeships, and towards Head Start programs. We are increasing funding for programs essential to our seniors such as Meals on Wheels and the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). As the lead Democrat on the Social Security Subcommittee, I also pushed for increased funding for the Social Security Administration to better serve beneficiaries, because this isn’t an entitlement, it is the insurance that they have paid for through a lifetime of work.” Larson led the bipartisan funding request for 93 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters which was met with unprecedented support, and the request was fully funded in this defense agreement. Highlights of Connecticut's defense manufacturing priorities: $9.4 billion to purchase 93 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters $2.3 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber $2.8 billion in advance procurement and $4.3 billion for 2 Virginia-class submarines $2.3 billion for 15 KC-46A Tankers $3.2 billion for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program $1.2 billion for 58 UH-60 Blackhawks $1.1 billion for purchase 8 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters $660 million for procurement of 10 Combat Search and Rescue Helicopters and $445 million in research and development for a new combat rescue helicopter $649 million for procurement and $245 million research and development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter $181 million for C-130H Modernization, including $55 million for eight blade propeller upgrades and $74 million for the engine enhancement program Highlights of Connecticut’s Health, Education, and Labor priorities: $15.9 billion for Title I public schools and $107 million for magnet schools $12.9 billion for the Social Security Administration’s operating budget $10 billion for Head Start $7.9 billion for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) $5.6 billion in total funding for Community Health Centers (both discretionary and mandatory) $5.3 billion for the Child Care and Development Block Grant $4.4 billion to respond to the opioids crisis $3.7 billion for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) $2.3 billion for Ryan White HIV/AIDs programs $2 billion increase for biomedical research through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) $1.47 billion for congressionally directed medical research programs on cancer, traumatic brain injuries, breast cancer, and prostate cancer studies $1.3 billion for Career and Technical Education $1.3 billion for Unaccompanied Minor Children $907 million for Senior Nutrition Programs $160 million for Apprenticeships and $300 million for Veterans job training ###
09.26.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), along with Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) issued the following statement after the announcement that Capital Workforce Partners in Hartford will receive $5,880,350 in Trade and Economic Transition Dislocated Worker Grants (DWGs) from the U.S. Department of Labor. Dislocated Worker Grants, supported under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act of 2014, assist those who are seeking to reenter the workforce by equipping them with the skills to compete in high-demand areas of the economy: “We are thrilled that Capital Workforce Partners will receive this funding to provide vital workforce training to residents of Connecticut. New technologies and fast-paced market changes can leave employers and their employees at the mercy of economic trends outside of their control. This grant will help those dislocated from the workforce by arming them with skills to succeed in high-demand employment sectors like health care and advanced manufacturing. The training supported by this grant is good for job-seekers, for employers who need skilled workers, and for Connecticut’s economy. We are proud of the work Capital Workforce Partners has done serving the Hartford region, and this funding is a testament to their continuing success,” said the members. Alex Johnson, President & CEO of Capital Workforce Partners enthusiastically notes “this grant enables Capital Workforce Partners to support up to 500 dislocated workers with training and support to prepare them for jobs in manufacturing and healthcare and other occupations and demand”. Alex further highlights “this grant was made possible given Capital Workforce Partners longstanding commitment to meeting the needs of regional employers, and job-seekers in partnership with Department of Labor, community agencies, municipalities, and education to close the skills gap”. ###
09.20.2018	Hartford, CT – Today marks one year since Hurricane Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “It has been one year since Hurricane Maria wreaked havoc on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and the islands are still in a state of disrepair. The Trump Administration has failed our country’s citizens. “Recovery has been slow and repairs have been inadequate, leaving the island and it’s infrastructure vulnerable to another storm at the peak of hurricane season. While I have advocated for disaster relief funding, I’ve also called for a robust and coordinated disaster response—something that is still clearly needed. In Connecticut, more than 1,500 miles away from the island we welcomed as many as 13,000 evacuees, some of whom are still in hotels and shelters. I cannot praise the State of Connecticut, the volunteer organizations, and the community enough for their ongoing effort to care for and house the displaced residents of Puerto Rico. However, the federal government’s response to this disaster has been an abject failure that this Administration should be ashamed of. “The death toll could be more than 4,600 whether or not this Administration wants to acknowledge it. I repeat the call for this Administration to step up and do what’s needed to help the islands recover and prepare for the next storm.” ###
09.19.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the recent announcement from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) for a $3 million project at the United Technologies Research Center (UTRC) in East Hartford. The project will work to develop energy storage to strengthen the electric grid. “UTRC is on the cutting edge of advanced manufacturing and energy," said Larson. "They continue to make advances that both ensure the United States remains the global leader in innovation and provide good, stable jobs right here in Connecticut. This project award will allow them to continue to expand their innovative efforts and allow our region to have access to reliable and affordable energy sources.” ###
09.18.2018	Hartford, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted a delegation from Seattle, WA for an Educational Forum about their recent experience in replacing an aging highway viaduct with a tunnel and the lessons that we can learn as Greater Hartford seeks to reconstruct our highway system and transform our region for the future. The forum was streamed on Facebook Live and can be viewed here. “Just like Hartford, Seattle had an aging viaduct, a highway system that divided the city, it was walled off from its waterfront, and had a flood protection system in need of repair. Seattle seized the moment by putting their highway underground in a tunnel, transforming the city, opening up new park space, and spurring new economic development. This forum with leaders from the Seattle tunnel project was an opportunity for our region to learn from their success story. Currently, the I-84 and I-91 interchange is ranked as the 24th worst bottleneck in the country and the 2nd in New England. Our highways are in a state of disrepair, the North End of Hartford is cut off from the rest of the city, we’re blocked from the riverfront, and, most urgently, our levees are in danger of collapsing. We have a choice to make. We can either accept a 50-year-old mistake or think big and pursue a once-in-a-generation opportunity to restore and revitalize Greater Hartford around the Connecticut River,” said Larson. “After a decade of debate and planning, a new, 2-mile-long tunnel will soon open in Seattle, replacing a noisy elevated expressway, the Alaskan Way Viaduct, that has walled downtown off from our beautiful waterfront for more than 60 years. A 20-acre park will be built over the tunnel, reconnecting the waterfront and downtown. This ‘once in a century opportunity’ will transform Seattle for generations. We think Hartford may have a similar opportunity along its riverfront, that’s why we shared our experience in Hartford,” said Bob Donegan, Tim Burgess & Candace Damon. The Seattle Panel was made up of Bob Donegan, (local business owner/President of Ivar’s restaurants), David Sowers (WSDOT’s Deputy Program Administrator for Engineering and Program Management), Paula Hammond (Former Secretary WSDOT), Tim Burgess (Former Seattle Mayor/City Councilor), and Candace Damon (Vice Chairman of HR&A Advisors). The Hartford Panel was made up of Chuck Sheehan (former CEO of the MDC), Carl Bard (former Deputy Commissioner of ConnDOT), David Fay (President/CEO of the Bushnell), Scott Jellison (CEO & COO of the MDC), Don Shubert (President of Connecticut Construction Industry Association), David Griggs (President & CEO of the MetroHartford Alliance) and Commissioner James Redeker of CTDOT). More on the I-84/I-91 tunnel proposal can be found here.
09.14.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), and Jim Himes (CT-4) and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced $470,893 through the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program (HUD-VASH) for housing authorities in Hartford, West Haven, and Norwalk. The funding for HUD-VASH vouchers will be used to help 50 homeless veterans access affordable housing along with necessary support services from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). The HUD-VASH program helps local VA facilities identify veterans in need of housing assistance. Through this program, veterans are connected with VA case managers who can help them obtain mental health and substance abuse treatment, identify and negotiate housing opportunities, as well as access counselling, job training, and education services. “This funding is a step in the right direction towards ending the scourge of veterans homelessness,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, Larson, and Himes. “As we applaud 50 new HUD-VASH vouchers to provide housing and critical support services for veterans across the state, we recognize that the work is far from over. We owe it to the brave men and women who serve our country to ensure that no veteran is left without a safe, affordable place to live once they return home.” The full breakdown of the funding is below: Housing Authority Number of Vouchers Awarded Amount Awarded City Housing Authority Of The City Of Norwalk 12 $153,185 Norwalk Housing Authority of the City of Hartford 12 $82,227 Hartford West Haven Housing Authority 12 $107,507 West Haven Connecticut Department of Housing 14 $127,974 Hartford ###
09.13.2018	Washington DC – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement from today’s Ways and Means Mark Up on the Republican Tax Plan 2.0: Rep. Larson’s remarks can be viewed here. “My Republican colleagues are doubling down on the double taxation of middle class families in Connecticut. Middle class families in states likes Connecticut, New Jersey and New York are getting double taxed by the Republican tax law to pay for tax cuts for a small group of the wealthiest in the country. The recent statement from Robert Greenstein of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities makes clear the devastating nature of the Republicans’ Tax 2.0 proposal. When these tax provisions take full effect in 2026, the baby boom generation will be in full retirement, the Medicare and Social Security programs will be under an enormous strain, and the Republicans will be calling for benefit cuts! I hope my Republican colleagues can begin to focus on the struggles of hard-working Americans like those I chat with in Connecticut’s First District, who tell me how they can’t afford being double-taxed because of the new limitations of the State and Local Tax deduction and cannot imagine retiring with anything less than their full earned benefits from Social Security,” said Larson. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (D-Conn), Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) and Reps. Terri A. Sewell (D-Ala.), Debbie Dingell (D-Mich.) Conor Lamb (D-PA), Raúl Grijalva (D-AZ) on Thursday announced the bicameral Expand Social Security Caucus, along with 16 senators and more than 130 House members. “Social Security is not an entitlement. It’s the insurance that American workers have paid for. The members of this caucus will always fight for Social Security and the workers who have earned their benefits. I want to thank the House Co-Chairs Reps. Debbie Dingell, Terri Sewell, Conor Lamb and Raul Grijalva. In addition, I thank my colleagues in the Senate, Senator Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren for their hard work on building the Expand Social Security Caucus in the Senate,” Larson said. "We are here today to say very loudly and very clearly that at a time when millions of seniors are trying to survive on $12,000 or $13,000 a year, our job is not to cut Social Security. Our job is to expand Social Security so that everyone in America can retire with dignity and respect," Sanders said. "Social Security is a lifeline for seniors and Americans with disabilities. We won't let it be cut by one cent – and instead we will fight to expand it," Warren said. "The rich and powerful have rigged our economy to make themselves richer, while working families face a massive retirement crisis. If this government really works for the people, it should protect and expand Social Security." The caucus is committed to expanding Social Security, one of the most popular and successful government programs. Last year alone, Social Security lifted 22 million Americans, including more than 15 million seniors, out of poverty. Before Social Security, nearly half of the nation’s seniors were living in poverty. Larson’s bill the Social Security 2100 Act expands and enhances Social Security and currently has over 170 cosponsors in the House. Joining the caucus leadership Thursday were Social Security Works, the Alliance for Retired Americans, the Paralyzed Veterans of America, Latinos for a Secure Retirement, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, the American Federation of Government Employees, the Arc of the United States, the Center for Responsible Lending and Global Policy Solutions. Joining Larson, Sewell, Dingell, Lamb, and Grijalva in the House caucus are Reps. Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Nanette Diaz Barragán (D-CA), Don Beyer (D-VA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Robert Brady (D-PA) Anthony Brown (D-MD), Julia Brownley (D-CA), Cheri Bustos (D-IL), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Salud Carbajal (D-CA), André Carson (D-IN), Matt Cartwright (D-PA), Kathy Castor (D-FL), Judy Chu (D-CA), David Cicilline (D-RI), Katherine Clark (D-MA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Steve Cohen (D-TN), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Charlie Crist (D-FL), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Henry Cuellar (D-TX), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Danny Davis (D-IL), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Diana DeGette (D-CO), John Delaney (D-MD), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Adriano Espaillat (D-NY), Elizabeth Esty (D-CT), Dwight Evans (D-PA), Bill Foster (D-IL), Marcia Fudge (D-OH), Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), Ruben Gallego (D-AZ), John Garamendi (D-CA), Jimmy Gomez (D-CA), Josh Gottheimer (D-NJ), Al Green (D-TX), Gene Green (D-TX), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Denny Heck (D-WA), Brian Higgins (D-NY), Jim Himes (D-CT), Jared Huffman (D-CA), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Hakeem Jeffries (D-NY), Hank Johnson (D-GA), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Bill Keating (D-MA), Robin Kelly (D-IL), Joe Kennedy, III (D-MA), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Ruben Kihuen (D-NV), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH), James Langevin (D-RI), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Al Lawson (D-FL), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Sandy Levin (D-MI), John Lewis (D-GA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Alan Lowenthal (D-CA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), James P. McGovern (D-MA), Gregory Meeks (D-NY), Grace Meng (D-NY), Seth Moulton (D-MA), Grace Napolitano (D-CA), Richard Neal (D-MA), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Tom O'Halleran (D-AZ), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Donald Payne (D-NJ), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Collin Peterson (D-MN), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Stacey Plaskett (D-VI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), David Price (D-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Jamie Raskin (D-MD), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Raul Ruiz (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Linda Sanchez (D-CA), John Sarbanes (D-MD), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Adam Schiff (D-CA), Bobby Scott (D-VA), José Serrano (D-NY), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Adam Smith (D-WA), Darren Soto (D-FL), Jackie Speier (D-CA), Thomas Suozzi (D-NY), Eric Swalwell (D-CA), Mark Takano (D-CA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Dina Titus(D-NV), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Norma Torres (D-CA), Juan Vargas (D-CA), Marc Veasey (D-TX), Filemon Vela (D-TX), Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-NJ), Peter Welch (D-VT), and John Yarmuth (D-KY). Joining Sanders and Warren in the Senate caucus are Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Patti Murray (D-Wash.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Tina Smith (D-Minn.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). Click here to watch the announcement. ###
09.12.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that the Connecticut Society of Certified Public Accountants (CTCPA) Executive Director Bonnie Stewart sent a letter to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in support or their effort to clarify how homeowners with crumbling foundations can receive federal tax relief through the casualty loss deduction. Specifically, Larson and Courtney wrote to the Acting IRS Commissioner David Kautter in August asking for clarification on whether a taxpayer can take and ‘carryforward’ a net operating loss should their casualty loss exceed their income. The need for clarification was brought to Larson and Courtney’s attention by local homeowners and CPAs during a seminar in May with IRS Senior Stakeholder Liaison from the Connecticut Taxpayer Advocate’s Office, Joseph S. McCarthy. The seminar was held for homeowners to learn more about the IRS Casualty Loss Deduction for crumbling foundation repairs. “This clarification of the tax revenue procedure announced last year will have a major impact for homeowners whose repair costs exceed their annual income,” said Larson and Courtney. “We are grateful to have the support of the Connecticut Society of Certified Public Accountants and their Executive Director, Bonnie Stewart, in this critical matter for homeowners in northcentral and northeastern Connecticut. We also appreciate the continued attention of the IRS and Treasury to this problem and we will remain in close contact with them in the coming months to determine if the ability to carry over a net loss is available.” In her letter to the IRS, Stewart wrote on behalf of the CTCPA that, “It is our understanding that Congressman Courtney and Larson are seeking technical clarification on how or whether a taxpayer could take and carryforward a net operating loss if their casualty loss, as qualified under Revenue Procedure 2017-60 and 2018-14, should exceed their income. We support the efforts of the Congressman to obtain positive clarification that such carryforwards can be applied to the losses of homeowners affected by the crumbling concrete foundation issue whose casualty losses exceed their income during the year in which they initially claim the casualty loss.” Read the letter of support sent by the Connecticut CPAs to IRS Read the initial letter sent by Courtney and Larson requesting clarification Additional information: Last November, the IRS issued Rev. Proc. 2017-60 to enact a “safe harbor” for the treatment of crumbling foundation-related repair costs as a “casualty loss” deduction from a taxpayer's taxable income under Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Republican tax-overhaul signed into law in December, temporarily limits the applicability of Section 165. Under the law, beginning in tax year 2018 only taxpayers who suffer damage related to a presidentially-declared Stafford Act disaster may deduct their property-casualty losses. This provision expires in 2025. In a December 21, 2017 letter to Courtney and Larson, the IRS confirmed that homeowners who had already completed repairs to their home before the end of 2017 would be able to claim the costs on their federal tax returns for 2017, or any open prior year. Taxpayers have three years from the date they filed their original tax return to file Form 1040X to amend their return (and claim this deduction). The updated revenue procedure extends the “safe harbor” through the period that 2017 returns can be amended, expected to be the filing season in spring of 2021. As homeowners and tax preparers have put the deduction to use, questions have arisen regarding how to address situations where taking the casualty loss deduction would exceed a homeowner’s income, known as a “net operating loss.” Given the high cost of repairing a failing foundation, the potential net operating loss could be substantial and this clarification would determine whether a taxpayer could carry forward this loss in future tax years, which could further alleviate the financial strain of replacing a crumbling foundation. Homeowners should consult with a qualified tax preparer to see if they qualify for this deduction. ###
09.11.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the 17th anniversary of the attacks on our country on September 11, 2001 that killed nearly 3,000 people on that morning. “17 years has passed since that horrific morning, and the pain is still seared in our memory. Our Hartford Office is next to the Hartford Fire Department Engine Co. One and Ladder Co. With the help of our firefighters, we hung a flag with the Fire Station over our office. and urged Americans to fly a flag in solidarity with the victims, their families and friends. We remember the bravery of the fire fighters going up the stairs as they were ushering everyone else down the stairs, to safety. Our hearts still go out to the families and friends of the victims, and the 161 Connecticut affiliated victims that lost their lives that fateful morning, including our friend, Dick Keane of Wethersfield. We should never forget the collective spirit that united us so strongly in that time of crisis, and carries on within us today. In 2001, I released the following statement, which still rings true today: We are a nation at times divided by political disagreements, but we are forever united by our love of freedom and democracy, our unyielding strength, our defiance in the face of adversity and our compassion for our fellow humans. No amount of terrorism or disruption could possibly shake the immoveable foundation of our 225-year-old country or the collective will of our people. This is a tragedy that words cannot accurately describe. “We will never forget the victims, and we must continue to remember that what unites us is stronger than what divides us,” said Larson.
09.10.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee released the following statement on the Republican agenda to make the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction cap of $10,000 permanent Thursday in the Ways and Means Committee. “Once again, the Republicans are set to release their second politicized tax bill that will further the harm done to Connecticut residents. Connecticut is a donor state, our citizens pay more than their fair share into the federal coffers and middle-class families in West Hartford and Manchester will now be paying even more! They are now seeking to make the limitations to the State and Local Tax Deduction permanent so states like Connecticut, New York and New Jersey are left bearing the burden and further subsidizing red states. I have heard from people all across my district who are worried that these taxes will bury them. On average, Connecticut residents were deducting more than $19,500 a year in state and local taxes. that and saving. Now almost of half of that will be double-taxed! The Republican tax plan is now doubling down on double taxation and on their attack of Connecticut residents,” said Larson. ******** Newly released data from the IRS shows that in 2016, Connecticut residents in all eight counties benefitted from an average SALT deduction above the current GOP cap of $10,000. The average SALT deduction for Connecticut residents was $19,563. If the cap had been in place in 2016 – the average Connecticut resident would have been double-taxed on the $9,563 they paid over the $10,000 cap. County # of Returns Returns Claiming SALT SALT Amount (in thousands) SALT Takeup Rate Avg SALT Deduction Fairfield County 459,130 209,600 6,829,436 0.457 $ 32,583 Hartford County 445,100 179,820 2,649,378 0.404 $ 14,734 Litchfield County 94,220 39,850 579,059 0.423 $ 14,531 Middlesex County 84,000 39,460 586,314 0.470 $ 14,858 New Haven County 413,190 159,650 2,324,154 0.386 $ 14,558 New London County 134,930 50,440 654,668 0.374 $ 12,979 Tolland County 68,780 31,610 440,972 0.460 $ 13,950 Windham County 54,780 18,000 186,213 0.329 $ 10,345 CONNECTICUT 1,754,130 728,420 14,250,194 0.415 $ 19,563 Source: IRS.gov ###
09.06.2018	East Hartford, CT - Today, Congressman John B. Larson announced that the East Hartford Fire Department will receive a $60,000 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The AFG program supports critical needs such as operations, safety, vehicle acquisition, and emergency personnel training. The East Hartford Fire Department will use these funds to purchase washing and drying units designed to reduce the presence of cancer-causing contaminants. “I commend Mayor Leclerc and Chief Oates for putting together a winning application. This grant will greatly benefit the Town of East Hartford and its fire department. As a life-long resident of East Hartford, where my father served as a firefighter, I am especially pleased that some of East Hartford’s bravest will receive the resources they need to safely serve the town. These funds will ensure that they have the training and supplies to better assist the East Hartford community, and keep themselves safe to effectively do their job. It is crucial that we continue to invest in those that put their own lives on the line for us, and I will continue to fight for them down in Washington,” said Larson. “I am pleased to know that the East Hartford Fire Department is receiving a $60,000-grant from the Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency,” said Mayor Marcia Leclerc. “We worked tirelessly on the grant application and I am proud to know that our efforts paid off. This grant funding will help install washing and drying units in multiple fire stations to remove the combustion and grime from firefighters’ protective clothing. The health and well-being of the East Hartford Fire Department’s personnel is instrumental in ensuring safety of our community and the grant will help to do just that.” “This grant will provide an immediate impact on our ability to ensure the health and safety of our members. This project will install washing and drying units in multiple fire stations to remove the dirt, grime, and products of combustion from firefighter protective clothing. This effort is supported by the current research that shows clean PPE reduces the likelihood of contracting occupational cancer; preserves the community’s investment in high quality protective clothing; and helps ensure our members are fully prepared to serve the citizens and visitors of East Hartford. We are grateful for the steadfast support of Congressman Larson, as well as the entire Connecticut delegation’s support of the AFG program. We deeply appreciate the continued support from Mayor Leclerc and the East Hartford Town Council as the East Hartford Fire Department continues to look for areas where we can better serve our community,” said Chief Oates. ###
09.06.2018	Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced $885,895 in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) to support fire departments in Goshen, East Haven, South Windham, Ansonia, Guilford, Westport and East Hartford. The funding will be used for operations and safety purposes, including professional training, wellness and fitness programs and equipment, personal protective equipment and supplies that support firefighting and EMS operations. “This federal funding will benefit the brave men and women who are on the frontlines---saving lives and keeping our communities safe,” said the delegation. “It’s imperative that firefighters have the best resources and equipment available to do their jobs safely and effectively. We will continue to support federal programs that put our first responders first.” The following is a breakdown of the funding: Goshen Fire Company: $13,326 for structural firefighting helmets East Haven Fire Department: $298,910 for firefighter breathing apparatus and an air compressor/breathing apparatus refill system South Windham Fire Department: $95,845 for firefighter breathing apparatus Ansonia Fire Department: $342, 381 for firefighter breathing apparatus Guilford Fire Department: $47,182 for a diesel fume exhaust system for the North Guilford fire station Westport Fire Department: $28,814 for firefighter personal bailout systems East Hartford Fire Department: $59,437 for protective gear washers and dryers ###
09.05.2018	In a letter Tuesday to FEMA’s Office of Response and Recovery, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation supported the appeal by Governor Dannel P. Malloy of the agency’s refusal to provide disaster aid to individual property owners, as well as to the towns of Bridgewater, New Milford and Roxbury who sustained significant damage from the May 15 supercell thunderstorms. While FEMA issued a disaster declaration to provide aid to impacted towns in Fairfield and New Haven counties, municipalities in Litchfield County, as well as individual property owners across the state were denied aid. “As the Governor’s appeal request makes clear, the three affected towns in Litchfield County are in effect Independent Cities that sustained significant damage to infrastructure and public facilities, similar to the damage sustained in Fairfield and New Haven Counties. Moreover, homeowners throughout the state are facing high, mostly uninsured costs related to debris removal. It is vital that you reverse course and grant this appeal in order to provide all the affected individuals and communities in our state with the federal disaster assistance they desperately need and deserve,” the letter states. Full text of the letter is available here and copied below. September 4, 2018 Mr. Jeff Byard Associate Administrator Office of Response and Recovery 500 C Street Washington, D.C. 20472 Dear Associate Administrator Byard: We write in support of Governor Dannel P. Malloy’s request to appeal aspects of Connecticut’s major disaster declaration that would prevent affected areas in the state from receiving Individual Assistance and prohibit the towns of Bridgewater, New Milford, and Roxbury from receiving Public Assistance. The powerful supercell thunderstorms that hit Connecticut on May 15, 2018 caused significant damage in these three communities and left individual homeowners throughout our state to bear the costly burden of recovering from the storm. The May 15 supercells included tornadoes, a waterspout, tennis ball-sized hail and a straight-line windstorm – resulting in unprecedented power outages, damage to homes and personal property, and the creation of massive amounts of debris. The storms were highly concentrated with significant, costly immediate and long-term repairs and clean-up. Individual homeowners now face costs of up to $70,000 each in debris removal and tree and structural damage. Municipalities in Litchfield County, and in other areas of the state, were forced to exhaust scarce resources to provide emergency services and clear debris – leading to unanticipated costs and strained budgets. On August 30, 2018, Governor Malloy appealed the denial of Public Assistance for the towns of Bridgewater, New Milford, and Roxbury in Litchfield County. The Governor also asked for reconsideration of the denial of Individual Assistance for the residents of New Haven and Fairfield Counties as well as the towns of Bridgewater, New Milford, and Roxbury in Litchfield County. The Governor’s appeal is pursuant to 44 CFR Section 206.46 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (P.L. 93-288), which provides for a one-time request for reconsideration of a major disaster declaration denial. As the Governor’s appeal request makes clear, the three affected towns in Litchfield County are in effect Independent Cities that sustained significant damage to infrastructure and public facilities, similar to the damage sustained in Fairfield and New Haven Counties. Moreover, homeowners throughout the state are facing high, mostly uninsured costs related to debris removal. It is vital that you reverse course and grant this appeal in order to provide all the affected individuals and communities in our state with the federal disaster assistance they desperately need and deserve. We appreciate your attention to this matter and ask for your prompt consideration of our request. Sincerely, ____________________________ ______________________________ RICHARD BLUMENTHAL CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHY United States Senate United States Senate ____________________________ ____________________________ ROSA L. DELAURO JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress Member of Congress ____________________________ ______________________________ JOE COURTNEY JIM HIMES Member of Congress Member of Congress ___________________________ ELIZABETH H. ESTY Member of Congress ###
09.04.2018	Hartford, CT - Today, Congressman John B. Larson announced that the Portland Fire Department will receive a $14,586 grant from the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency under the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. “It is imperative that our firefighters receive the support they need to keep our communities safe when responding to emergencies. I thank the Department of Homeland Security for awarding this grant to the Portland Volunteer Fire Department. As the son of a firefighter, I understand the dangers these brave men and women confront on a daily basis. This grant will strengthen the Portland Volunteer Fire Department’s fire and emergency response operations. That is why I sent a letter supporting their application and will continue advocating on behalf of fire houses in the First District,” said Larson. “We would like to thank Congressman Larson for his solid and strong support of our brave men and women in the Portland Fire Department. Congratulations to Chief Shea and the Portland Fire Department for another successful grant award. These funds will be used to keep our firefighters’ protective gear in good working order. We are so proud of our Portland Fire Department, and all the work they do in responding to emergencies and keeping our residents safe. Thank you Portland Fire Department!,” said First Selectwoman Susan Bransfield. “This grant is another great win for the brave men and women who serve our community. This award will be used to purchase a new Personal Protective Equipment Washer/Extractor and Dryer Unit,” said Fire Chief Robert Shea. “This new equipment will allow our Fire/EMS personnel to effectively clean their protective equipment properly and safely; removing harmful contaminates and carcinogens which have proven to cause occupational illness including cancer. We thank the Department of Homeland Security for their continued effort in providing the necessary funding to protect our First responders and Congressman Larson for his years of support to our department,” Shea continued.
09.01.2018	Washington, D.C. - Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) attended Senator John McCain’s memorial service as he lied in state. “It was a humbling experience to attend Senator McCain’s service yesterday alongside another American hero who also spent years in the Hanoi Hilton, Congressman Sam Johnson. In 2016, I was honored to be in attendance when Senator McCain presented Congressman Johnson with the inaugural Congressional Patriot Award. It has been an honor to know these two great American patriots and a privilege to say good bye to one of them alongside the other one yesterday,” said Larson.
08.30.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), a member of the U.S. House of Representatives Education and the Workforce Committee, Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a member of the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee, and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), called on Secretary Betsy DeVos to abandon the “borrower defense” rule change at the Department of Education, which would rescind an Obama-era policy put in place to protect students who are misled by predatory for-profit colleges. This proposed rule will make it much harder for Connecticut students, saddled with debt but no legitimate education, to receive the relief they deserve. This is the latest step in a pattern of concerning actions by Secretary DeVos to put for-profit colleges and corporations’ bottom line ahead of students. “…the Higher Education Act of 1965 gives you the authority to help defrauded students by discharging—and refunding—their federal student loan debt when those students were misled by their schools or were the victims of unlawful and abusive practices. This authority predates the previous administration, and has been promulgated through rules that have been in place since 1995,” the delegation wrote. “The Department’s new borrower defense proposal does not meet the requirements delineated in these rules and federal statute, and is a radical departure from Congressional intent. If it is not withdrawn or heavily modified, your proposal will effectively eliminate $12.7 billion in potential debt relief for defrauded borrowers and harm students in several significant ways,” the delegation added. A copy of the letter is available here and included below: August 30, 2018 The Honorable Betsy DeVos Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20202 Dear Secretary DeVos: We write in strong opposition to the U.S. Department of Education’s (“Department”) proposed “borrower defense” rule and urge you to abandon this proposal in favor of rules finalized in 2016 that provide much-needed debt relief to students who fall victim to abusive and unlawful practices of some colleges. The Department’s proposal would effectively end relief for the approximately 375 defrauded students in our home state of Connecticut with pending borrower defense claims and is another troubling example of the Department prioritizing the interests of for-profit education companies over those of students. Colleges that engage in misconduct often leave students with high levels of debt and struggling to find a job in their chosen field. Following the collapse of Corinthian Colleges, Inc. (“Corinthian”) in 2015, systemic fraud was uncovered, including falsified job placement rates provided to students at the company’s Everest, Heald, and WyoTech chains. The Department correctly sought to address these serious problems by issuing rules that improved the student debt relief process for those left with considerable debt but no degree or college credits of any value. However, instead of using these rules to review a growing backlog of borrower defense claims, processing has stalled and the Department has allowed significant delays in relief to victims. As you know, the Higher Education Act of 1965 gives you the authority to help defrauded students by discharging—and refunding—their federal student loan debt when those students were misled by their schools or were the victims of unlawful and abusive practices. This authority predates the previous administration, and has been promulgated through rules that have been in place since 1995. The Department’s new borrower defense proposal does not meet the requirements delineated in these rules and federal statute, and is a radical departure from Congressional intent. If it is not withdrawn or heavily modified, your proposal will effectively eliminate $12.7 billion in potential debt relief for defrauded borrowers and harm students in several significant ways: The proposed rule requires borrowers to default before they can file a borrower defense claim, which could impact students’ credit scores, require them to pay unnecessary fees, and send them into collections, wage garnishment, and tax offset. In addition, the rule limits borrowers to 30-65 days after receiving a notice of collection to apply for relief, versus the six years that was allowed in the 2016 rule. The proposal establishes an unattainably high bar for relief by requiring borrowers to show that the school knew the information they provided to students was false or misleading, or that the school had reckless disregard for the truth. In addition, the proposal overturns a ban on forced arbitration, which forces students to waive their legal right to file lawsuits. These policies make it nearly impossible for students to achieve relief and clearly puts the interests of fraudulent for-profit institutions ahead of debt-burdened students. The proposed rule eliminates group discharge in cases of widespread misconduct at a school and instead requires each former student to show misrepresentation and individually apply for relief. Most claims for discharge share significant facts to other cases from the same institution. Given that the Department does not have the capacity to review and process applications one-by-one in a timely manner, group relief is integral to making the borrower defense rule work. The proposed rule asks applicants invasive and insulting questions about their private life and work history, including whether a borrower can pass a drug test, one’s criminal record, and health background. The rule permits a school to retaliate against a student who has filed a claim by denying the student transcripts and refusing to verify earned credentials of students with successful claims. The proposed rule removes protections for taxpayers against a predatory school’s fraudulent practices by eliminating financial responsibility standards endorsed by the Department’s own Inspector General, such as giving the Department greater authority to obtain financial protection under certain early warning indicators of financial instability. Based on these serious concerns, we reiterate our strong opposition to the proposed rule and implore the Department to withdraw this harmful proposal that fails to fulfill the intent of federal law. The Department’s rule will undoubtedly have devastating consequences for defrauded Connecticut student loan borrowers who are depending on the Department to take this issue seriously and process their claims.
08.29.2018	Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation applauded $2,875,000 in federal funding from the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) through the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program to provide local community coalitions funding to prevent youth substance use. This funding includes new grants for the Community Health Resource. Inc.’s Griswold PRIDE Coalition and Woodbury-Bethlehem Parent Connection, Inc.’s Advocates for Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition. Both coalitions will receive $125,000 to establish and strengthen community collaboration in support of local efforts to prevent youth substance misuse. “Prevention is key, and this federal funding will strengthen local efforts that educate and inspire our youth to pursue fulfilling, drug-free lives,” said the delegation. “We thank the Drug-Free Communities coalitions across Connecticut for working tirelessly to improve the well-being of our communities and helping children make the right decisions for their health and future.” In addition to the new funding, the following coalitions will be receiving $125,000 in continuation funding, totaling $2,625,000. Torrington Coalition to Reduce Youth Substance Use, McCall Center for Behavioral Health Southington’s Town Wide Effort to Promote Success Coalition, Southington Board of Education Bristol Prevention Coalition, City of Bristol East Haddam Local Prevention Council, East Haddam Youth & Family Services, Inc. Enfield Together Coalition, Town of Enfield New London Community & Campus Coalition, City of New London Madison Alcohol & Drug Education Coalition, Town of Madison Southeastern Regional Action Council on Substance Abuse, Inc., Southeastern Regional Action Council Waterford Coalition for a Health Empowered Community, Hebron Ledyard Prevention Coalition, Ledge Light Health District New London Tri-Town Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition, Tri Town Youth Services Bureau, Inc. Deep River Step Up Naugy (SUN) Prevention Coalition, Naugatuck Youth Services, Inc. Durham Middlefield Local Wellness Coalition, Durham Middlefield Youth and Family Services Milford Prevention Council Coalition, Bridges Health Care, Inc. Developmental Assets for Youth (D.A.Y), Town of Guilford Hamden Positive Choices Coalition, Consultation Center, Inc. Stratford Partnership for Youth and Families, Town of Stratford Bridgeport United Coalition, Greater Bridgeport Area Prevention Program, Inc. Trumbull Partnership Against Underage Drinking (TPAUD), Town of Trumbull Wolcott Citizens Against Substance Abuse, Wolcott Board of Education Housatonic Valley Coalition Against Substance Abuse, Bethel This year marks the 20th anniversary of DFC support program grand awards. Nationwide, the ONDCP announced $90.9 million in grants to 731 local drug prevention coalitions. ###
08.27.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman and President of the University of New Haven Lawrence DeNardis: “The state of Connecticut lost a great man with the passing of Larry DeNardis. Larry was always looking to help others, I greatly enjoyed working with him. I admired his work ethic, hands on approach, and sense of humor. He was a true public servant. He impacted countless lives in both his career as a Member of Congress and an educator. I extend my deepest condolences to his wife May Lou, his children, family and friends.”
08.25.2018	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Senator John McCain: “John McCain was an iconic American hero, whose life of principle, centered around leadership and was dedicated to service above self, to country, and the human condition over petty politics and personal gain. The McCain moment that is seared in the mind of so many Americans was during the 2008 Presidential race with everything on the line in the heat of battle, in the midst of the debate, when he pauses and corrects a woman’s racist stereotyping of Barack Obama. It was an example of valor that has been on display throughout his life, and underscored at that moment when it mattered most to do what was right! You didn’t have to agree with him to recognize his heroism love of country and unwavering adherence to doing the right thing..... This is a sad day for America. My deepest condolences to his wife Cindy, children, loved ones, and to fellow Americans who share this grief.”
08.24.2018	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) criticized the Treasury Department’s new proposed regulations targeting state and local tax deduction (SALT) states after they were released yesterday: “The continued politicization of tax law in this partisan manner is unprecedented. The IRS and the tax code are now being wielded as a weapon against Connecticut for the benefit of red states and the GOP agenda. It started with the extreme limits placed on the state and local tax deduction (SALT), which have existed in the tax code since the Civil War. The Treasury's actions yesterday continue to target states like Connecticut that are trying to protect their residents from double-taxation," said Larson. "They are picking winners and losers. The winners are the red states that the blue states have been subsidizing. The losers are the taxpayers in Manchester, West Hartford, and elsewhere in Connecticut. This is unacceptable.” ###
08.24.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) and Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) awards totaling $3,251,466. This federal funding will support fire departments and emergency medical services (EMS) in Avon, Middletown, Waterbury, Branford, New Hartford and surrounding towns, and the Connecticut Fire Academy in Windsor Locks. “These FEMA grants provide much-needed support to fire departments and EMS across the state—giving them the ability to hire new firefighters and EMTs, purchase new equipment, and expand training. Firefighters put their lives on the line to save others, and these investments in our fire departments go a long way in ensuring that our first responders do their jobs safely and effectively. We will continue to push for robust funding for these federal grant programs that support our first responders,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, Larson, and Esty. A full breakdown of the funding is below: ASSISTANCE TO FIREFIGHTER GRANTS Avon, CT: $ 277,286 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Connecticut Fire Academy, Windsor Locks, CT: $ 420,466 for training props / simulators, firefighter protective gear, and a protective gear washer. New Hartford Ambulance, New Hartford, CT: $ 178,182, a REGIONAL award to New Hartford Ambulance, Bantam Fire Co., Canton Volunteer Fire & EMS, Harwinton Ambulance, Norfolk Fire Dept., Simsbury Ambulance, and Winsted Area Ambulance, for 13 - automatic chest compression devices. South Fire District of Middletown, CT: $ 145,381 for firefighter breathing apparatus. Waterbury, CT: $ 170,073 for firefighting hose & nozzles. Waterbury, CT: $ 595,455 for a new fire pumper truck. STAFFING FOR ADEQUATE FIRE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE Branford, CT: $ 1,464,623 to hire 8 new firefighters. ###
08.23.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after the Treasury Department released new proposed regulations targeting SALT states: “The proposed rules by Treasury are yet another attack on states like Connecticut who responsibly sought to protect their residents from the harmful double-taxation provisions included in the Republican tax law. This move will harm hard-working, middle-class families and will restrict the ability of towns from investing in their roads, schools, and emergency services. The Republican tax was a massive giveaway to the wealthiest individuals and corporations and will add trillions to the deficit. How will they pay for this? By targeting blue-states like Connecticut and gutting Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. The Trump Administration should stop attacking Connecticut and focus on fixing their disastrous agenda,” said Larson. ###
08.23.2018	Manchester, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the South Manchester Fire Department will be receiving a $524,781 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) grant from the Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide financial support over 36 months to assist in the hiring and training for three new paramedic firefighter positions. “Our firefighters risk their lives everyday protecting our communities. I am proud to have helped secure funding for the South Manchester Fire Department that will improve their services. Today’s grant will allow them to hire three new firefighters strengthening their team and increasing the safety of the community. As the son of a firefighter, I am proud to be a strong advocate for our first responders and the programs that support them. I congratulate Mayor Moran and Chief Billings for receiving this award,” said Larson. “Our Washington representatives actively support first responders and the SAFER grant program administered by the Department of Homeland Security. We are truly grateful to the efforts of Congressman John Larson, Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Senator Chris Murphy to assure us of this funding. This grant will directly improve the quality of emergency services that we provide for the citizens of Manchester,” said Fire Chief David Billings. The SAFER program is designed to protect the health and safety of the public and firefighting personnel against fire and fire-related hazards. FEMA determined that Manchester’s grant application was “consistent with the SAFER Grant Program’s purpose and worthy of award”. ###
08.22.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after attending the Medal of Honor Ceremony at the White House recognizing Air Force Technical Sergeant John A. Chapman, a Windsor Locks native, , for conspicuous gallantry. Sergeant John A. Chapman was awarded the Medal of Honor posthumously for his actions on March 4, 2002, on Takur Ghar mountain in Afghanistan. The medal was presented to Sergeant Chapman’s spouse, Valerie Nessel, and family. “It was humbling to be a part of the Medal of Honor ceremony today for Sergeant Chapman at the White House. Sergeant Chapman is an American hero deserving of this honor. He distinguished himself in combat with selflessness, bravery and valor. A career Airman, Sergeant Chapman dedicated his life to the service of our nation and paid the ultimate sacrifice protecting the lives of his teammates. His actions on March 4, 2002 are consistent with nation’s highest and most prestigious military decoration. I offer my utmost respect and condolences to Sergeant Chapman’s wife, Valerie, and family for their sacrifices,” said Larson. Sergeant Chapman graduated from Windsor Locks High School, in 1983. He enlisted in the Air Force on September 27, 1985, as an information systems operator and later volunteered to be a Combat Controller, where he was tasked to solve air and ground problems across the spectrum of conflict and crisis. Sergeant Chapman, an expert in reconnaissance operations, air traffic control, and terminal attack control operations, used his expertise to decisively integrate airpower onto the battlefield. Trained to infiltrate in combat and austere environments, he was an experienced static line and military free fall jumper, combat diver, and earned jumpmaster and dive supervisor qualifications. Later, he was selectively hired for a special duty assignment at the 24th Special Tactics Squadron. There, as a team leader, Sergeant Chapman trained personnel for their roles as special tactics operators on the battlefield, preparing them to conduct precision strike, personnel recovery, and global access missions for special operations forces around the world. While deployed, Sergeant Chapman directed close air support aircraft, delivering destructive ordnance on enemy targets in non-permissive environments.
08.15.2018	(Hartford, CT)—Today, during National Health Center week, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation applauded $2,387,361 in Quality Improvement grants from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to 16 community health centers across Connecticut. The Quality Improvement grant award program is funded through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) and is used to improve the quality, efficiency, and the effectiveness of community health centers. “This impactful investment will help improve 16 of Connecticut’s health centers-- strengthening our community health center network and giving more patients access to the top notch care they deserve,” said the delegation. “Community health centers are a lifeline in our communities—providing accessible, high-quality care to all patients regardless of their ability to pay. In Connecticut, we’re lucky to have a network of health centers that deliver affordable, exceptional comprehensive care. We will continue to support federal programs that improve the health and wellness of Connecticut’s residents” A funding breakdown can be found below. A full breakdown, including the specific awards and funding allocations for each community health center, can be found here. CHARTER OAK HEALTH CENTER, INC: $100,946 COMMUNITY HEALTH AND WELLNESS CENTER OF GREATER TORRINGTON: $67,308 COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC: $528,908 COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES, INC: $158,516 CONNECTICUT INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITIES, INC: $111,472 CORNELL SCOTT HILL HEALTH CORPORATION: $143,308 FAIR HAVEN COMMUNITY HEALTH CLINIC: $192,750 FAMILY CENTERS, INC: $72,315 FIRST CHOICE HEALTH CENTERS, INC: $141,790 GENERATIONS FAMILY HEALTH CENTER, INC: $130,050 NORWALK COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC: $77, 862 OPTIMUS HEALTH CARE, INC: $132, 277 SOUTHWEST COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER: $95,114 STAYWELL HEALTH CARE, INC: $108,860 UNITED COMMUNITY AND FAMILY SERVICES, INC: $71,782 WHEELER CLINIC, INC: $150,603 For this round of funding, HHS will be awarding $125 million in Quality Improvement grant awards to 1,352 community health centers across the country. ###
08.15.2018	Rocky Hill, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visted Numotion, a wheelchair and mobility equipment company in Rocky Hill. They were joined by other representatives in the industry, including Don Clayback, Exective Director of the National Coalition for Assistive and Rehab Technology (NCART), to discuss Larson’s bipartisan bill, H.R. 3730. This bill would help protect Medicare beneficiaries’ access to specialized, medically-necessary wheelchair accessories by restoring appropriate payment rates to the businesses that supply CRT wheelchair accessories. The bill’s Republican sponsor is Rep. Lee Zeldin of New York and it has over 100 bipartisan cosponsors. “Complex Rehabilitation Technologies (CRT) help people living with severe disabilities go through their daily lives with maximum mobility and independence. That is why I met with some of the businesses here in Connecticut that build and customize these advanced wheelchairs for people suffering from degenerative diseases like ALS or who have become paralyzed. I heard firsthand today how these Medicare cuts are affecting these often small businesses and how it could impact their ability to serve Medicare beneficiaries. I am proud of the bipartisan support this measure has received, and Rep. Zeldin and I will work to get H.R. 3730 passed into law to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries will continue to have access to the CRT manual wheelchair accessories that they need,” said Larson. “We sincerely thank Congressman Larson for being a strong champion for people with disabilities in his district and across the country. He has taken a leadership role in introducing legislation like H.R. 3730 to ensure these children and adults are able to get the complex wheelchairs and other adaptive equipment they require to maximize their independence and minimize their health care treatments and costs. His support is critical to companies in his district like Numotion and National Seating & Mobility, helping them to continue to provide this specialized equipment and supporting services to their communities,” said Don Clayback Executive Director of NCART. Background on the CRT Issue: In 2008, Congress passed the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA), which excluded CRT wheelchairs and accessories from the CMS’ competitive bid process. In November 2014, CMS issued a rule that ignored Congressional intent and would have reduced payments and harmed patient access to CRT wheelchair accessories. This rule was delayed multiple times by Congress through legislation, but only temporarily. Reps. Larson and Zeldin introduced H.R. 1361(an earlier iteration of H.R. 3730) to protect CRT wheelchair accessories (power or manual) from having their reimbursement rates reduced. On July 23, 2017, CMS agreed to make the changes the Zeldin/Larson bill called for, but only for CRT power wheelchair accessories. Therefore, the members introduced H.R. 3730 to protect reimbursement rates and patients’ continued access to CRT manual wheelchair accessories. These efforts have also been supported by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst, and the United Spinal Association. ###
08.02.2018	Southington, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Southington resident Carl Jacobs with his service medals. Jacobs served in the Army from July 1950 to May 1953. In 1951, he was wounded in Korea. Jacobs was presented with the Purple Heart, the National Defense Service Medal, the Korean Service Medal with four Bronze Service Stars, the Combat Infantryman Badge, the United Nations Service Medal, and the Korean Medal of Gratitude. “I was honored to present Carl Jacobs with his service medals today. The Korean War has been called the ‘Forgotten War’ but should be called the ‘Forgotten Victory.’ It is always a tremendous privilege to honor Korean War veterans who fought so bravely for their country. Carl’s service and sacrifices will never be forgotten,” said Larson. Jacobs is a lifelong resident of Connecticut who volunteered to serve his country in the Army after leaving foster care. He deployed to South Korea in 1950 upon completion of basic training. He was shot several times by enemy forces in 1951 and spent months recovering at a US military hospital in Osaka, Japan. Carl was honorably discharged from the Army in 1953 and returned home to Connecticut where he met his wife, Denise. Carl and Denise have been married for 60 years. Together they have one son. ###
08.01.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the recent comments made by the president regarding the investigation into Russian election interference being conducted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller: “It is critical that Special Counsel Mueller who has already handed down 37 indictments, including 12 to Russian intelligence officers, 13 to Russian nationals, and five guilty pleas is allowed to continue the investigation. Dan Coates, his Director of National Intelligence recently referenced the intelligence reports leading up to 9/11, when he said, ‘here we are, nearly two decades later and I’m here to say the warning lights are blinking red again’. The president should cooperate with Mueller to make sure that the ongoing and current threat of Russian interference in our elections is stopped. This is not about the President of The United States, this about the attack on our entire democracy by a foreign power. And, that’s why the investigation needs to proceed. Rather than removing Mueller, the president should be cooperating with him in order to get to the bottom of Russia’s interference in the 2016 election that has been acknowledged by all of our intelligence agencies,” said Larson.
07.27.2018	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented the Air Meritorious Service Medal for the late Air National Guard veteran, Michael Lynch, to his daughters Karen Petrella and Sherry Fortin, wife Ginny Lynch, and son-in-law Tony Petrella. Lynch was a lifelong resident of East Hartford. Larson’s office helped secure this medal for Lynch’s family and helped rectify an error on Lynch’s headstone. Lynch served in the Connecticut Air National Guard from May 1955 to May 1968. “I am honored to present Michael Lynch’s family with his Air Meritorious Service Medal. He selflessly served our nation and Connecticut for 13 years in the Air National Guard, and continued to give back to his community after his years in the service. We are forever indebted to the Lynch family for their father’s sacrifices and hard work,” said Larson. ###
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, House Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT) and Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) led every Member of their Subcommittee in a letter to Social Security Administration (SSA) Acting Commissioner Nancy Berryhill stating SSA should not proceed with plans to reinstate the reconsideration level of appeal in ten states, until a Senate-confirmed Commissioner is sworn in. The lawmakers wrote: “Reinstating reconsideration nationwide is a big decision and should only be made by a Senate-confirmed Commissioner.” “While we agree that Social Security needs a consistent, nationwide appeals process, there is little evidence to show that reconsideration is a meaningful step in the disability appeals process. There is no sense in seeking a nationally-uniform process if the process itself is flawed. Additionally, while reinstating reconsideration will allow some people to be awarded benefits sooner, the vast majority of people ultimately approved for benefits will just have longer wait times.” This letter follows a hearing held by the Social Security Subcommittee this week that reviewed SSA’s changes to the disability appeals process, particularly the decision to reinstate reconsideration. The decision to reinstate reconsideration could lead to millions of beneficiaries not being able to receive their benefits or delays in their hearing with an administrative law judge. Joining Chairman Johnson and Ranking Member Larson on the letter include: Reps. Mike Bishop (R-MI), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Mike Kelly (R-PA), Tom Rice (R-SC), David Schweikert (R-AZ), Darin LaHood (R-IL), Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), and Linda Sánchez (D-CA). CLICK HERE or read below to see the letter. Dear Acting Commissioner Berryhill: We are writing to follow up on yesterday’s Social Security Subcommittee hearing to make clear that the Social Security Administration should not proceed with any plans to reinstate reconsideration until a Senate-confirmed Commissioner is in place. Reinstating reconsideration nationwide is a big decision and should only be made by a Senate-confirmed Commissioner. At the hearing, Members on a bipartisan basis raised serious questions about the decision to reinstate reconsideration at this time. While we agree that Social Security needs a consistent, nationwide appeals process, there is little evidence to show that reconsideration is a meaningful step in the disability appeals process. There is no sense in seeking a nationally-uniform process if the process itself is flawed. Additionally, while reinstating reconsideration will allow some people to be awarded benefits sooner, the vast majority of people ultimately approved for benefits will just have longer wait times. The average wait for a hearing with an Administrative Law Judge is already nearly 600 days. Adding another 100 days by reinstating reconsideration in its current form is simply wrong. Instead of reinstating reconsideration, the SSA should dedicate its efforts to identifying effective, evidence-based changes that would improve the timeliness and accuracy of disability determinations. We also expect that any significant changes to the adjudication process be made on the basis of solid data and evidence, presented to Congress, which demonstrates that the changes would result in the correct decision – an award of benefits if the individual meets the statutory eligibility criteria – being made earlier in the adjudication process. We look forward to receiving your response no later than August 3, 2018.
07.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on House passage of the Conference Report to the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA): “Today’s adoption of the 2019 Defense Authorization Conference Report will continue the growth of Connecticut’s thriving defense manufacturing ecosystem while bolstering our military and national security. Work on our nation’s defense programs is supporting hundreds of suppliers and over $1.7 billion in economic activity for the Connecticut economy. As co-chair of the F-35 Caucus, I am proud to have fought to ensure this bill includes flexibility for the DoD to purchase additional fighter jets that support more than 4,600 jobs and $545 million in economic activity in the First District alone. This bill is a win for the Connecticut economy and the men and women who protect our country.” said Larson. “This year’s Defense Authorization was aptly named after Senator McCain; an American hero who has dutifully served our country as an airman, a POW, and a statesman. Among many other things, the Conference Report provides a pay increase for our troops, establishes a prescription monitoring program to shield our military from opioid abuse, and makes key investments to counter aggression and interference by our foreign adversaries. I thank Congressman Joe Courtney for his guidance and hard work on the Armed Services Committee where he continues to safeguard Connecticut’s priorities, and for his leadership in fighting for our submarine programs that provide countless jobs to Connecticut residents.” The Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (NDAA) encompasses the following provisions: Raises military pay by 2.6% Requires the Department of Defense to establish a prescription drug monitoring program and share information with state prescription drug monitoring programs in order prevent opioid abuse within the military Requires the National Security Council to report its strategy for countering malign foreign influence in our democracy Funds the Global Engagement Center programs to counter propaganda and disinformation efforts by our foreign adversaries Requires US-based foreign media outlets to disclose their sources of funding to the FCC Helps our European allies strengthen deterrence against Russian aggression Highlights of Connecticut's defense manufacturing priorities: •$10.6 billion to purchase 77 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters; includes additional $92 million for spare parts; and provides flexibility for the Department to procure additional fighters if additional program cost savings are achieved. •$2.3 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber •$7.6 billion for Virginia-class submarine procurement and advance procurement. •$2.3 billion for 15 KC-46A Tankers •$3.2 billion for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program •$1.2 billion for 54 UH-60 Blackhawks •$1.1 billion for purchase 8 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters •$1.1 billion for advance procurement of 10 Combat Search and Rescue Helicopters •$649 million for procurement and development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter as well as $24 million for upgrades to the existing fleet •$151 million for C-130H Modernization, including $55 million for eight blade propeller upgrades and $74 million for the engine enhancement program Last April, Larson led an funding request for the F-35 program and, in May, he released a statement on the initial passage of the 2019 Defense Authorization in the House of Representatives. ###
07.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, two bipartisan bills led by Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) that focus on common-sense solutions were passed by unanimously by voice vote. These are the eighth and ninth Larson-led bills that have passed in the House this year. The two bills are the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act (H.R. 6084) and the Ambulatory Surgical Center (ASC) Payment Transparency Act (H.R. 6138). “Medicare and Social Security are our country’s greatest insurance programs that millions of Americans, especially seniors, rely on nationwide. These are two bipartisan solutions that will help strengthen both programs and I am pleased they have been unanimously approved by the House of Representatives. “Dealing with the aftermath of fraudulent use of your Social Security number or identify theft is often overwhelming and confusing. The Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act will ensure that victims of identity theft will have a single-point of contact at the Social Security Administration. A single point of contact will provide those dealing with fraud a dedicated casework team to guide them through the complicated steps that are taken to resolving theft-related issues with their Social Security Number. Their casework team would be held accountable to seeing that the victim’s case is managed through to a resolution. “Additionally, some Medicare patients are choosing to receive care at Ambulatory Surgery Centers for same-day surgical care, including vital diagnostic and preventive health care procedures. The ASC Payment Transparency Act will help to ensure greater transparency regarding Medicare’s reimbursement policies and the kinds of procedures that Medicare beneficiaries will be able to receive at these facilities. I urge the Senate to pass these two bipartisan solutions so that they may become law,” said Larson. The AARP and the National Council of Social Security Management Associations (NCSSMA) have endorsed the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act (H.R. 6084). The AARP’s letter of support can be viewed here and the letter from NCSSMA here.
07.20.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement in response to the proposed health insurance rate increases for 2019, currently being reviewed by the Connecticut Insurance Department. “Congressional Republicans could not gain the support to repeal and replace Americans’ right to affordable, accessible health care so they have chosen to systematically sabotage the health care system instead. The proposed health insurance rate hikes announced today in Connecticut are a direct result of the GOP attacks. The Trump Administration has also been aggressively promoting the sale of short-term junk insurance plans and attacking protections for people with pre-existing conditions. This is unacceptable.” “Rather than attacking people’s access to care, Republicans should bring solutions to the table and work across the aisle to make seeing a doctor and paying for your medications more accessible and affordable. That is why my colleagues, Reps. Courtney and Higgins, and I have introduced the Medicare Buy-In & Health Care Stabilization Act to allow those who are 50-64 years old to buy into Medicare, providing those individuals with an affordable, high-quality insurance option. Importantly, a solution like Medicare Buy-In could also help lower premiums across the marketplace, including in Connecticut, by leaving a younger, healthier risk pool on the exchanges. I urge my Republican colleagues to stop their sabotage and instead work with us to reduce the financial burden of health care for Americans”, said Larson. The proposed rate increases for an individual policy is 12.3 percent and the increase for a small group rate is averaged to be 10.22 percent. The Connecticut Insurance Department attributed the increase to “ongoing uncertainty in Washington that threatens to destabilize the health insurance markets, particularly for individuals.”
07.19.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved two amendments to help address the crumbling foundations problem. “Homeowners in more than three dozen towns in north central and northeast Connecticut have reported that their home foundations are failing due to the mineral pyrrhotite that could affect up to 35,000 homes in the area. That is why it is critical to make sure that all municipal, state, federal and private sector measures are taken to address this catastrophe. This week was another small step to help our constituents as two amendments passed in the House of Representatives. The first provides funding for the U.S. Geological Survey to develop a map showing pyrrhotite occurrences across the United States, and the second provides funding for a Department of the Treasury study to examine the financial impact of crumbling foundations on our community lenders, homeowners, and our towns that have taken a huge financial hit. We urge the Senate to act on these measures so they can be sent to the president’s desk for signature,” said Larson and Courtney. The Congressmen have recently engaged with Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the Army Corps of Engineers, and the National Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST) to examine the federal opportunities for assistance in addressing crumbling foundations.
07.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, the United States and Lockheed Martin tentatively agreed to strike a $13 billion deal for F-35 jets, an important step towards lowering the cost of each jet to $80 million by 2020. F-35 Caucus Co-Chairs Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Thomas J. Rooney (R-FL) congratulated Lockheed Martin on the preliminary deal. “This announcement solidifies the Pentagon’s continued investment in the F-35 program which strengthens our national defense and contributes to over 194,000 American jobs, including 4,600 high-skilled manufacturing jobs in Connecticut. This is a critical agreement for our military, our allies and more than 1,500 American manufacturers across 46 states. I would like to commend Ellen Lord, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, for her leadership in ensuring that our military has the most advanced equipment at the best value while recognizing efforts and ingenuity of American manufacturers who support the program,” said Larson. “As adversaries continue working to match the United States’ military capabilities, we must ensure our men and women in uniform have the tools they need to defend our country,” Rooney said. “I appreciate Lockheed Martin and the Pentagon coming to an agreement to help those brave men and women defend our freedoms while also driving down costs and saving taxpayer money.” The procurement deal for 141 F-35s will help lower the price of the F-35A, the most common version of the stealthy fighter jet, to about $89 million—6% less than last year’s cost of $94.3 million per jet. The House F-35 caucus isn’t Larson and Rooney’s first collaboration. The two congressmen teamed up in 2011 to strike funding for the alternative engine for the F-35, which saved taxpayers upwards of $3 billion. Passing the House with vast bipartisan support, the vote was named one of fourteen “Key House Votes of 2011.”
07.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the non-binding House Resolution 990: “A humanitarian crisis in our country continues where thousands of young migrant children are locked up, having been ripped from their parent’s arms, not knowing if they will ever see them again. Meanwhile, the president continues to malign our intelligence agencies and will not deal with the larger cyber threat that our democracy is currently facing. Dan Coates, his Director of National Intelligence recently referenced the intelligence reports leading up to 9/11, when he said, ‘here we are, nearly two decades later and I’m here to say the warning lights are blinking red again’. Yet the GOP has found the time to bring to the floor a partisan messaging resolution which I have rejected from inception, aimed to only further divide the country. In a time when the president is disavowing American intelligence, House Republicans are neglecting to protect our democracy and voting on a messaging bill instead. “I support the enforcement of our immigration laws and the men and women who work in these agencies that put their lives in danger to fight drug cartels and human trafficking. However, this non-binding resolution is not intended to address any of the brewing crises at our borders or in our communities. Let’s be clear, abolishing ICE as it is today would be reverting back to INS (Immigration and Naturalization Service) for enforcing our immigration laws, which will be under the jurisdiction of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. I don’t believe we should give him additional power to control our immigration policy. We need to focus on the immediate reunification of families, which is the result of the President’s separation policy and Congressional Republicans’ refusal to step up and take action. We need comprehensive solutions – not meaningless partisan votes,” said Larson.
07.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Trump’s Helsinki Summit with Russian President Vladimir Putin: “According to every American intelligence source, Russia indisputably interfered with our elections in 2016 and will do it again. President Trump has not instituted any measures to protect us from future attacks on our elections. Today, the world watched as President Trump undermined our intelligence community, praised a dictator and continues to deride the fourth estate. In the face of a stunning renunciation of American Intelligence after the President aligned himself with President Putin, this only underscores the fact that the Mueller investigation must proceed. Americans should stay tuned, any attempt to dismantle the Mueller investigation is a further assault on our democracy. Our elections are sacred and they are what makes us a democracy, to not stand up for them is wrong. As the Mueller investigation indictments continue to pile up, whether President Trump colluded or not, it is evident that Russians have tampered with our electoral process. What’s mind boggling is that the President would side with a former KGB agent turned autocrat instead of our own intelligence services. “The recent criminal charges against a Russian who conspired to influence the NRA go beyond the interference in Presidential and Congressional elections. The Russians are fully aware of our electoral weaknesses and tried to exploit influence of one of the most powerful interest groups against the American people. It is clear that the Mueller investigation needs to go on. We need to stand up against this and protect our democracy,” said Larson. ###
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. John Larson, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s executive order that allows the President to appoint federal Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) on the basis of ideology and political orientation, rather than through a competitive examination process based on merit, neutrality, and fitness for office. The Social Security Administration employs the vast majority of federal ALJs, who issued over 685,000 benefit-eligibility decisions last year. “This new executive order is harmful to the millions of Americans who can no longer work due to a severe disability and have been waiting years for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). Americans contribute to Social Security throughout their working lives, and they deserve an impartial hearing by a highly-qualified, independent judge. But under the Administration’s new policy, they will face a judge beholden to ideology and politics rather than one selected through a competitive process designed to ensure qualification and neutrality. The hard-earned benefits of millions of workers and their families are now at risk. I call upon the Administration to reverse this dangerous decision. Background: The federal government employs over 1,900 ALJs, and 85 percent of them serve at the Social Security Administration (SSA). At SSA, ALJs hear appeals from workers who have applied for their earned benefits, but whose applications were rejected by a lower-level decisionmaker at SSA. In almost half of cases, the ALJ determines that the previous denial of benefits was incorrect and that the worker meets the eligibility criteria in the law. About one-quarter of disabled workers receiving Social Security benefits are able to receive their earned benefit because of an ALJ decision. Prior to the imposition of the Executive Order, ALJs were insulated from political pressure to award or deny benefits because they were appointed under longstandanding statutory and regulatory protections which ensured that ALJs were hired on a competitive basis according to qualification and impartiality, rather than selected by political
07.10.2018	U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), sent a letter to President Trump urging the administration to grant Governor Dannel P. Malloy’s request for a presidential disaster declaration arising from a series of powerful supercell thunderstorms that hit Connecticut on May 15, 2018. “The storms required our state and many of our municipalities to exhaust scarce resources responding to emergencies, clearing debris, and providing accommodations and other necessities for displaced persons. These efforts strained budgets and forced our state and local communities to face large, unanticipated costs,” the delegation writes in the letter to President Trump. The supercell included tornadoes, a waterspout, tennis ball-sized hail and a straight-line windstorm and caused significant damage in Brookfield, Danbury, New Milford, Newtown, Oxford, Ridgefield, Southbury, Winsted, Bethany, Hamden, Cheshire, Durham, Seymour, North Haven, Beacon Falls, and Wallingford. There were several injuries and two fatalities. On July 9, 2018, Governor Malloy requested a major disaster declaration for New Haven and Fairfield Counties and New Milford, Bridgewater and Roxbury in Litchfield County as a result of the May supercell. The request also includes Hazard Mitigation Assistance for the state of Connecticut and the tribal lands of the Mashantucket Pequot and Mohegan Tribes. “As the Governor’s disaster declaration request makes clear, the state and affected counties can all demonstrate that they meet or exceed cost threshold requirements for a disaster declaration. It is vital that you grant the request in order to help our state recoup losses and carry out the process of recovering from the May storms,” the delegation continues. The full letter is here and below: July 9, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to grant Governor Dannel P. Malloy’s request for a presidential disaster declaration arising from a series of powerful supercell thunderstorms that hit Connecticut on May 15, 2018. This supercell included tornadoes, a waterspout, tennis ball-sized hail and a straight-line windstorm. The supercell caused significant damage in communities throughout Connecticut. These devastated communities include Brookfield, Danbury, New Milford, Newtown, Oxford, Ridgefield, Southbury, Winsted, Bethany, Hamden, Cheshire, Durham, Seymour, and North Haven. According to state officials, there were injuries and at least two fatalities – one in Danbury and one in New Fairfield. Power outages were reported at tens of thousands of homes. One thousand eight hundred utility poles need to be replaced and 288 miles of power lines were downed. The storms required our state and many of our municipalities to exhaust scarce resources responding to emergencies, clearing debris, and providing accommodations and other necessities for displaced persons. These efforts strained budgets and forced our state and local communities to face large, unanticipated costs. On July 9, 2018, Governor Malloy requested a major disaster declaration for New Haven and Fairfield Counties and New Milford, Bridgewater and Roxbury in Litchfield County as a result of the May supercell. The request also includes Hazard Mitigation Assistance for the state of Connecticut and the tribal lands of the Mashantucket Pequot and Mohegan Tribes. The governor’s application is pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (P.L. 93-288), which provides financial aid and assistance for communities hit by major storms like the ones that affected Connecticut. As the Governor’s disaster declaration request makes clear, the state and affected counties can all demonstrate that they meet or exceed cost threshold requirements for a disaster declaration. It is vital that you grant the request in order to help our state recoup losses and carry out the process of recovering from the May storms. We appreciate your prompt consideration of this request. Sincerely,
07.05.2018	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Governor Dannel Malloy, Lieutenant Governor Nancy Wyman, Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), DEEP Commissioner Rob Klee, Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin, and Coltsville National Historical Park Superintendent James Woosley announced that Connecticut’s Department of Energy and Environmental Protection and the City of Hartford will be receiving a $750,000 grant from the National Park Service to make renovations and improvements to Colt Park. “This is great news for the City of Hartford and the Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood. This grant will improve access to recreational opportunities for city residents and serve to enhance the community and neighboring Coltsville National Historical Park. The Coalition to Strengthen the Shelden/Charter Oak Neighborhood, Friends of Colt Park, Friends of Coltsville, the City of Hartford, and DEEP have worked tirelessly to support Colt Park over the years; this will build on their efforts. I am proud to have advocated for funding for Colt Park along with Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and continue to be a strong supporter in Congress of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which helps make conservation and recreation projects like this possible,” said Larson. In June of 2016 Congressman Larson, Senator Blumenthal, and Senator Murphy wrote a letter in support of the City of Hartford and DEEP’s application to then National Parks Director, Jonathan Jarvis. This grant was awarded through the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF) Outdoor Recreation Legacy Partnership (ORLP) grant program that assists in building and enhancing parks and recreational facilities within urban communities. The Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), established in 1964, is one of the nation’s most effective programs for improving conservation and recreation in places across America such as Colt Park. Congressman Larson has long been a champion of the LWCF. This year he joined his colleagues in signing a letter to the Appropriations Committee advocating for robust funding of the LWCF in Fiscal Year 2019 and he is a cosponsor of H.R. 502 to permanently reauthorize the LWCF. ###
06.29.2018	U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) ) applauded $3,974,780 in funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). The funding includes four grants totaling $914,590, which will support 206 AmeriCorps members in Vernon, New Haven, Bridgeport, and Waterbury. In addition, the organizations will be awarded $1,840,670 from the Connecticut Commission on Community Service, the Governor-appointed state service commission. “Today’s awards ensure that AmeriCorps will continue to improve countless lives in Vernon, New Haven, Waterbury, and Bridgeport and harness the energy and talents of a new generation of volunteers,” said the delegation. “AmeriCorps’s longstanding presence in Connecticut has played an important role in strengthening community service and giving people the chance to help their neighbors. We will continue to support programs such as AmeriCorps that truly make a difference in our communities.” The full breakdown of awards is below: Food Corps, Inc. in Vernon will receive $237,000 in funding to support FoodCorps Connecticut and 20 members. Teach for America in New Haven will receive $68,000 in funding to support Teach For America—Connecticut and 136 members. Public Allies, Inc. in Bridgeport will receive $363,090 in funding to support Public Allies Connecticut and 30 members. Health 360 in Waterbury will receive $247,500 in funding to support Mental Health First Aid Corps and 20 members. ###
06.28.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019: “This defense funding bill will continue to support the First District’s manufacturing supply chain, which is made up of nearly 160 small businesses that fuel our economy and employ thousands of high-skilled workers. “Earlier this year, I led a request for at least 93 F-35 aircraft to be included in this appropriations bill alongside with my co-chair of the Joint Strike Fighter Caucus, Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL). This defense funding bill matches that request by investing in the procurement of 93 F-35 aircraft (16 more than was requested in the President’s budget). Production of the engine for the F-35 aircraft is at the heart of the First District’s defense manufacturing ecosystem, creating thousands of jobs and growing our economy. Moreover, the bill included funding for two Virginia-class submarines secured by Rep. Joe Courtney, that will continue to support the many suppliers in the First District. I was proud to support this bipartisan effort that will strengthen our national defense and lead to continued economic growth across the First District and Connecticut,” said Larson. In the First Congressional District alone, work on the F-35 is supporting more than 4,600 jobs and is resulting in $545 million in economic activity this year. The First District is also home to 88 suppliers of the Navy’s submarine programs representing $198 million in purchase orders this year and more than 30 suppliers of our military’s helicopter programs representing $82 million. Earlier this year, Larson led a letter to the appropriations committee requesting the funding of 93 F-35’s in FY 2019. Highlights of Connecticut's defense manufacturing priorities in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2019 $9.4 billion to purchase 93 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters $2.3 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber $2.79 billion in advance procurement and $5.3 billion to fully fund 2 Virginia-class submarines $2.3 billion for 15 KC-46A Tankers $3 billion for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program $1.2 billion for 58 UH-60 Blackhawks $1 billion for purchase 8 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters $678 million for advance procurement of 10 Combat Search and Rescue Helicopters and $457 million in research and development for a new combat rescue helicopter $649 million for procurement and development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter $151 million for C-130H Modernization, including $55 million for eight blade propeller upgrades and $74 million for the engine enhancement program Other Highlights Raises military pay by 2.6% $752 million for congressionally directed medical research programs vital for treatment advancements on cancer, PTSD, Parkinson’s, etc. ###
06.28.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after it was announced that Elliot Ginsberg, CEO of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) will be retiring effective November 1st and that Ron Angelo will be taking over as the new CEO: “Elliot Ginsberg has brought Connecticut manufacturing back to the forefront through the creation of CCAT and his work. Through CCAT, Elliot has transformed the manufacturing ecosystem in the Hartford region and Connecticut and has helped countless small businesses get their start. Elliot was a pioneer in his efforts and his vision for CCAT is something that other states should model. Elliot has truly transformed Connecticut’s manufacturing for the better and I thank him for his service. “I know his successor, Ron Angelo will continue in Elliot’s efforts. His leadership and work at Great River Advisors and as Deputy Commissioner Department of Economic Development (DECD) were outstanding. I know he will take his experience and continue to make CCAT a leader in manufacturing. I look forward to working with him to continue to support CCAT.” ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC - Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Sen. Bernie Sanders (VT) introduced the Social Security Administration Fairness Act (H.R. 6251/3147) to give the Social Security Administration the funds necessary to restore timely service to beneficiaries. In addition to Larson and Sanders, they were joined by over 20 of their House colleagues and 6 Senators. Social Security has played a fundamental role in the lives of hundreds of millions of hardworking Americans; however, since 1970, funding to administer Social Security programs has decreased 34 percent per beneficiary, adjusting for inflation. The Social Security Administration’s budget has declined 9 percent since 2010, while the number of beneficiaries has gone up more than 15 percent. This has resulted in the loss of more than 10,000 employees, as well as the closure of all rural contact centers and more than 10 percent of all field offices nationwide. These funding cuts have had an unconscionable human cost – last year alone, 10,000 people died and thousands more lost their homes or declared bankruptcy while waiting on a disability decision. “In order to serve its beneficiaries, the Social Security Administration needs an operational budget that keeps up with the demands the program is facing. Consider that 10,000 Baby Boomers become eligible for Social Security a day and that for the past decade, Social Security’s budget has remained severely underfunded. These are benefits that American workers have paid for and earned with every paycheck – they have earned the right to better service. I applaud Senator Sanders for his leadership and for our work together to ensure Social Security offices remain open and responsive to its beneficiaries, and that cruel waiting periods for the severely disabled are eliminated,” said Larson. “Social Security is the most successful government program ever, but it can’t work for Vermonters if it doesn’t have adequate staff to answer the phones, meet with applicants and process claims. We must reject Republicans’ efforts to cut and privatize Social Security, and instead ensure that all seniors and people with disabilities receive the benefits they have earned and deserve in a timely manner,” Sanders said. The bill would set the Social Security’s administrative funding at 1.5 percent of overall benefit payments, eliminate the five-month waiting period for approved Social Security disability recipients and the two-year waiting period for disability beneficiaries to qualify to receive Medicare, and implement a moratorium on all closures of field offices and contact stations. The legislation was endorsed by AFGE, AFL-CIO, Alliance for Retired Americans, Center for Medicare Advocacy, Justice in Aging, Medicare Rights Center, National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare, National Council of Social Security Management Associations, National Organization of Social Security Claimants Representatives, Social Security Works, Special Needs Alliance, Strengthen Social Security Coalition and The Arc.
06.27.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House Republicans failed to pass another partisan immigration bill and voted against a clean alternative to end family separations offered by House Democrats. “What the American people want is comprehensive immigration reform. We should be focusing on border security at the same time as providing humanity along our borders. Today, House Republicans not only voted against a clean alternative to permanently end family separations of migrant families, but their own partisan immigration measure pushed by their leadership. In order to provide a clear path forward for comprehensive immigration reform, I urge my colleagues to put clean bills on the floor that provide a path for DREAMers, helps our DACA recipients, and puts our country back on the moral compass it was once on,” said Larson.
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - On Friday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) requested an extension of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Transitional Sheltering Assistance (TSA) Program that will expire on June 30, 2018 and end assistance for nearly 2,300 displaced families, who are still in desperate need of a temporary shelter. Larson sent the request to the Department of Homeland Security Secretary Kristjen Nielsen and the Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Ben Carson. “I am writing to express grave concern regarding the approaching termination of the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Transitional Sheltering Assistance Program that will expire on June 30, 2018 and end assistance for nearly 2,300 displaced families, who are still in desperate need of a temporary shelter. Over eighty families who relocated to the State of Connecticut could become homeless when the program expires. This continues to be a humanitarian tragedy and the community needs to know what the federal government's plan will be going forward and whether FEMA and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will step up to provide alternative housing assistance before the program expires . . . . I urgently request that you to take action to ensure these families do not become homeless on July 1st, including by providing an additional extension of TSA assistance,” wrote Larson. The full letter can be viewed here. ###
06.26.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with members of Goodwin College’s faculty in his Washington office. Goodwin College was awarded a $26,000 planning grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities for their project Goodwin College-Integrating Humanities into Career Focused Programs. “Congratulations to Goodwin College for being selected for this grant. Goodwin College and President Mark Scheinberg are always looking towards the careers of the future and trying to prepare students for success. Companies understand the importance of a well-rounded workforce and this new humanities program will strengthen career focused education with skills in reading, writing, and analytical thinking. I applaud them in their efforts,” said Larson. Through the Goodwin College-Integrating Humanities into Career Focused Program, Goodwin College will be creating courses to combine humanities with four of their career programs: business, manufacturing, homeland security, and criminal justice. They were one of 15 awardees out of 103 applicants nationally for this grant. Pictured above left to right: Diane Sperger (Director of Humanities at Goodwin College), Rep. Larson, John Sperger (Diane’s Husband), Leonard Walk (Faculty in Goodwin College’s manufacturing program) ###
06.25.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement after the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2018 passed the House of Representatives. “Today’s vote was a step in the right direction for our Blue Water Vietnam Veterans who have suffered from the effects of Agent Orange while serving off the coast of Vietnam during the war. Having heard directly from vets and their families in the First District who have been impacted by this, I was proud to become a cosponsor and submitted a letter along with over 60 other members of the House to Speaker Ryan asking to put this bill up for a vote and I am proud the House has finally taken action. I encourage the Senate to quickly take up and pass the Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act to provide long-awaited relief to those who have served and sacrificed for their country,” said Larson. If this bill is signed into law, Blue Water Vietnam Veterans will be able to apply for medical benefits which were previously denied. In cases where a veteran is actively seeking to file a medical claim in relation to Agent Orange, they would be given presumptive benefits. This will include survivor benefits for their family members as well. The current guidelines at the Department of Veteran’s Affairs do not acknowledge thousands of Navy veterans who were harmed by Agent Orange as a result of their service. ###
06.22.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), House Democratic Caucus Chair Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx) and Reps. Danny Davis (D-IL), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Donald Beyer (D-VA), and Gwen Moore (D-WI) along with over one hundred of their colleagues called on President Trump to stop closing Social Security field offices across the country. In the last year alone, the Social Security Administration (SSA) shuttered offices in Virginia, Wisconsin, Maryland, and Illinois. As the Baby Boom generation ages and the number of Americans relying on Social Security benefits continues to rise, SSA field offices are in high demand. These offices provide a great service to the community, providing beneficiaries with resources and in-person assistance. Closing these offices creates an undue hardship on seniors and other beneficiaries who may face challenges in traveling further to get the help they need, as well as lead to overcrowding and longer wait times at other locations. The members are calling on the president to stop the closures, and in the event that an office has closed, another should be opened to provide these much-needed services to the community. “Now is the time to declare a moratorium on the closure of SSA field offices. In the event that a specific office must be closed due to unique circumstances, another one should be opened serving the same population in a nearby location – it should not be “consolidated” into other offices, thereby reducing overall access to service in the local community. We urge you to act quickly before more damage is done to those seeking Social Security,” the members wrote in the letter.
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after speaking in support of Congressman Brian Higgins’ (D-NY) amendment, that would commission a Health and Human Services Department (HHS) study on a Medicare Buy-In option for Americans aged 50-64. “Health care premiums are on the rise right now because of the Republican tax law and the Administration’s sabotage of the Affordable Care Act. Instead of attacking protections for those with pre-existing conditions and peddling junk insurance plans, let’s focus on a commonsense solution like allowing Americans ages 50-64 years old to buy into Medicare. Data from the Kaiser Family Foundation found that a 60 year old American could save nearly 40 percent in premiums with a buy-in option. Instead of battling one another, Congress must lead the way and focus on making care more affordable for a new pool of Americans wishing to buy into the Medicare program,” said Larson. Rep. John B. Larson, (CT-01), along with Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-26), previously introduced the “Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act” (HR 3748). This legislation would allow Americans (ages 50-64) to buy into Medicare, providing them with a new option for affordable, quality care. While the Higgins amendment failed on a party-line vote, this is the first time the Ways & Means Committee has discussed how a Medicare Buy-In could be the path to improving the country’s health care system.
06.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, two bipartisan bills lead by Rep. John B. Larson that focused on common-sense solutions were favorably reported out the Ways and Means Committee. The two bills were the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act (H.R. 6084) and the Ambulatory Surgical Center (ASC) Payment Transparency Act (H.R. 6138). “Medicare and Social Security are our country’s greatest insurance programs that millions of Americans, especially seniors, rely on nationwide. These are two bipartisan solutions that will help strengthen both programs. “Dealing with the aftermath of fraudulent use of your Social Security number or identify theft is often overwhelming and confusing. The Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act will ensure that victims of identity theft will have a single-point of contact at the Social Security Administration. A single point of contact will provide those dealing with fraud a dedicated casework team to guide them through the complicated steps that are taken to resolving theft-related issues related to their Social Security Number. Their casework team would be held accountable to seeing the victim’s case is managed through to a resolution. “Additionally, some Medicare patients are choosing to receive care at Ambulatory Surgery Centers for same-day surgical care, including vital diagnostic and preventive health care procedures. The ASC Payment Transparency Act will help to ensure greater transparency regarding Medicare’s reimbursement policies and the kinds of procedures that Medicare beneficiaries will be able to receive at these facilities and I thank the Committee for taking up and passing this bill today. “I thank my colleagues for their support on these two bills and would urge the full House of Representatives to take up these solutions,” said Larson. The AARP endorsed the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act (H.R. 6084), their letter of support can be viewed here.
06.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Commit to Opioid Medical Prescriber Accountability and Safety for Seniors (COMPASS) Act (H.R. 5716) passed in the House of Representatives yesterday. Along with Rep. Peter Roskam (R-IL), Larson introduced this bipartisan legislation to require Medicare to work with medical providers to examine their opioid prescriptions, compared to their peers, and address ways to avoid over-prescribing opioids to Medicare beneficiaries. This is the seventh Larson-led bill to pass the House this year, of which six have been signed into law. “The opioid crisis has ravaged communities in Connecticut and across America. What is often overlooked is that seniors are being prescribed opioids at extremely high rates. The COMPASS Act is a commonsense solution to help medical providers evaluate their opioid prescribing practices and ensure that Medicare beneficiaries are getting their pain needs addressed in a safe and responsible way. I urge my colleagues in the Senate take it up quickly and move this important piece of legislation to the President’s desk for ultimate passage,” said Larson.
06.19.2018	U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) and U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) sent a letter to U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Ben Carson following his visit to Connecticut. During his visit, Secretary Carson visited the home of Maggie and Vincent Perracchio in Willington, which has severe cracks in the foundation, and hosted a listening session with homeowners and local and state leaders. In their letter, the Members of Congress thanked Secretary Carson for visiting the state and implored him to help. Specifically, they asked Secretary Carson to advocate for a FEMA disaster declaration, provide urgent HUD resources, work with insurance companies, and create flexibility in existing HUD programs to help homeowners. “We write to thank you for visiting Connecticut to view firsthand the devastation of crumbling foundations caused by the naturally occurring iron sulfide mineral pyrrhotite. Our hope is that you left the state with an increased understanding of both the human and economic toll this crisis has taken on thousands of families, and the urgent need to bring relief to the affected homeowners who are facing this disaster through no fault of their own,” wrote the members. The members continued, “Your visit was an important demonstration that addressing this crisis is not a partisan issue. We look forward to continuing to work with you and your staff to find necessary relief for the thousands of homeowners who are desperately looking for help.” In central and eastern Connecticut, homeowners in dozens of towns are dealing with crumbling foundations. Murphy, Blumenthal, Courtney and Larson have been working with the Trump administration to try to help these homeowners. A copy of the letter can be found here and below: June 19, 2018 Dr. Ben Carson Secretary U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street S.W. Washington, DC 20410 Dear Secretary Carson: We write to thank you for visiting Connecticut to view firsthand the devastation of crumbling foundations caused by the naturally occurring iron sulfide mineral pyrrhotite. Our hope is that you left the state with an increased understanding of both the human and economic toll this crisis has taken on thousands of families, and the urgent need to bring relief to the affected homeowners who are facing this disaster through no fault of their own. Vincent and Maggie Perracchio, who graciously opened up their home to show you the nightmare they live with every day, are representative of the thousands of families in Connecticut who now have to grapple with whether to test their foundations, finance costly repairs, or simply walk away from homes that have become unlivable due to faulty concrete. We believe there are a number of specific actions, many of which were referenced by officials, residents, and you during your visit, that you can take to help those homeowners who have been devastated by this crisis. It is worth noting that the federal government has a significant financial interest in assisting homeowners, as many homes in the affected areas were purchased using Federal Housing Administration loans, and many are federally guaranteed via Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac holdings. Those homes are now at risk of serious devaluation, a prospect that has already deeply impacted towns in the region and raises the possibility of significant costs to the Treasury. First, we ask you to bring this critical issue to the attention of the President, who has the statutory authority under the Stafford Act to issue a disaster declaration following the request of the Governor and a preliminary assessment by the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA). Should such a declaration be made for communities impacted by crumbling foundations, FEMA and HUD, through the Community Development Block Grant Disaster (CDBG) Relief program, could provide some direct aid to homeowners dealing with crumbling foundations. We believe that your first-hand experience seeing this problem up close would be invaluable in helping FEMA and the President understand the scope and impact of this problem. Second, we ask that you direct your staff to continue working with us to identify and implement creative solutions within HUD’s existing programs to provide relief in tandem with other housing affordability needs in Connecticut. HUD has previously identified CDBG Small Cities and entitlement community funds, the HOME Program, and the Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program as possible existing options for assisting towns and homeowners with crumbling foundations, pursuant to program income guidelines and other restrictions. Third, we ask for your continued support as we seek new resources and relief through the legislative and regulatory process. Together, we are working to build support for new targeted grant programs, provide flexibility within financial and housing regulations, and maximize the use of the federal tax code to aid in home repairs. The state of Connecticut has stepped up and agreed to bond $100 million over five years as part of a newly formed captive insurance company, and direct federal assistance is necessary to complement that effort. Fourth, you indicated a willingness to review how to help with homeowner insurance coverage for damaged foundations. We would like to continue that conversation with your staff. We couldn’t agree more with your assessment that the solutions to this issue ultimately depend on local, state, private, and federal partners all working together. Pyrrhotite has already wreaked havoc on homes and businesses in Canada, Ireland, Connecticut, and now Massachusetts, and this problem could have potentially national significance in years to come. Your visit was an important demonstration that addressing this crisis is not a partisan issue. We look forward to continuing to work with you and your staff to find necessary relief for the thousands of homeowners who are desperately looking for help. Sincerely, ###
06.18.2018	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called for the end of the Trump Administration’s cruel and unnecessary policy to separate children from their families at the border. The crisis has inspired hundreds of compassionate constituents to voice their concerns to Larson in opposition of the policy. “As Laura Bush said, America is a ‘moral nation’, but separating immigrant families is heart-breaking, immoral, and isn’t working. We know this type of treatment will cause trauma and will permanently affect these children. Michelle Obama and Melania Trump also echoed this sentiment -- we are a nation of laws, but we ought to govern with heart. The First Ladies are coming together to say it is time to put an end to this. The Trump Administration could put an end to this with a phone call. If that doesn’t happen, then the Republican-controlled Congress should take appropriate action,” said Larson. ###
06.15.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after attending the Opening Ceremony of the CTrail Hartford Line. “This is a historic moment for the City of Hartford, the State of Connecticut, and the region known as the New England Knowledge Corridor. The Hartford Line unites the cities of Springfield, Hartford and New Haven, provides a viable alternative to the heavily congested I-91 corridor, and will continue to spur economic development as new stations are built. I am proud to have worked closely with the Obama Administration and my colleagues in Congress to secure close to $205 million in federal funding for this project. I want to personally thank all those who were involved in making this day possible, including Governor Malloy, Commissioner Redeker, members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation, former Senators Dodd and Lieberman, and our partners in Massachusetts, including Congressman Neal. We must build on this momentum and invest more in our transportation system and critical infrastructure so that the region continues to benefit,” said Larson. Larson helped to secure $205 million in federal funding through the DOT’s Federal Railroad and Transit Administrations: Phase 1 – $40.0 million Phase 2 – $120.9 million Phase 3 – $30.0 million State Street Station – $10.0 million Hartford Rail Alternatives Analysis – $3.9 million *Following the commemorative event, free weekend train service will operate on Saturday and Sunday, June 16 and 17. Full, expanded weekday service will begin on June 18 with trains running approximately every 45 minutes during the morning and evening peak periods. Information about the new train schedules and fares can be found at www.hartfordline.com and www.nhhsrail.com.
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Social Security and Representative Mike Bishop (MI-08), the newest member of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, introduced H.R. 6084, the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act. This bipartisan legislation would require the Social Security Administration to provide a single point of contact at the agency to any individual requesting a new Social Security number due to identity theft or who is dealing with identity theft issues related to their Social Security benefits. “In this day and age when we are increasingly vulnerable to online hacking of our identities, it is critical that individuals have a source they can reach out to for assistance when identity theft has caused problems with their Social Security number or benefits. That is why I, along with Congressman Mike Bishop, have introduced H.R. 6084, the Improving Social Security’s Service to Victims of Identity Theft Act. This bill provides a single point of contact in the Social Security Administration that will be responsible for resolving Social Security-related issues in connection with the theft, and will be accountable to them until completion,” said Rep. Larson. “Everyone has gotten the runaround from a cumbersome phone tree, and this common-sense legislation would support victims of identity theft by assigning them a single point of contact at the Social Security Administration to ensure their cases are handled with the care and attention they deserve,” said Rep. Bishop. “Americans who are victims of identity theft have enough to deal with to get their lives back on track, and they should not be forced to navigate the vast bureaucracy of the Social Security Administration on their own.”
06.12.2018	(Hartford, CT) – Congressmen John Larson (CT-1), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) released the following letter to the Department of Interior Office of the Inspector General today asking that the OIG consider in its ongoing investigation the timing of Interior’s decision regarding the Mohegan Compact agreement. “We remain deeply concerned about the propriety of the actions of the Department of the Interior officials as articulated in our February 9, 2018 letter. Further, the timing of the decision by the Department to publish the Mohegan Compact amendment more than six months after federal law required and the failure of the Department to provide similar effect to the Mashantucket Pequot amendment raises additional questions and concerns which the Inspector General should review,” the letter states. Larson, Blumenthal, Murphy, and Courtney sought an investigation by the OIG into Interior’s highly unusual decision to take no action regarding proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut. That investigation is ongoing. Full text of the letter is copied below. June 8, 2018 The Honorable Mary L. Kendall Deputy Inspector General Office of the Inspector General U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Ms. Kendall: On February 9, 2018, we wrote to request your investigation into the decision of the U.S. Department of the Interior (Interior) to take no action regarding the proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut. We indicated that this decision raises serious questions as to whether the Department of the Interior is properly carrying out its longstanding legal trust responsibilities regarding Native American Tribes. See generally, Seminole Nation v. United States 316 U.S. 286 (1942). We also cited a Politico article that raised issues of potential conflicts of interest and impartial decision making, noting that the Secretary refused to even talk with members of the Connecticut delegation about these Connecticut-specific amendments while “MGM and its allies had direct access to Interior.” We appreciate your office’s quick response to our February request by initiating an investigation and write now to urge you to continue to aggressively pursue this investigation notwithstanding a recent decision by the Department of the Interior to publish in the Federal Register the Mohegan Compact amendment thereby making such amendment effective without express approval. We remain deeply concerned about the propriety of the actions of the Department of the Interior officials as articulated in our February 9, 2018 letter. Further, the timing of the decision by the Department to publish the Mohegan Compact amendment more than six months after federal law required and the failure of the Department to provide similar effect to the Mashantucket Pequot amendment raises additional questions and concerns which the Inspector General should review. We appreciate your diligent investigation and look forward to your report. Sincerely,
06.08.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives John Larson (D-1), Joe Courtney (D-2), Rosa DeLauro (D-3), Jim Himes (D-4), and Elizabeth Esty (D-5), and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) applauded $1 million in U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) funding for cleaning up contaminated brownfield properties in Connecticut. The Capitol Region Council of Governments and Naugatuck Valley Council of Governments will each receive $500,000 in funding. “From eyesores to economic powerhouses—a redeveloped brownfield site can boost local economies and revitalize neighborhoods,” said the delegation. “We applaud the EPA for making this wise investment in our state, and look forward to the positive impact these new federal dollars will have on communities with brownfield sites ready for cleanup and redevelopment.” According to the EPA, the agency announced a total of $5.3 million in supplemental funding to New England communities for 11 successful existing Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) grantees in the region, helping communities carry out cleanup and redevelopment projects. ###
06.07.2018	As Prepared Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling today’s hearing on the 2018 Social Security Trustees Report. While Social Security is financially stable for the time being, it is clear we need a long-term solution. There are 10,000 Baby Boomers a day who become eligible for Social Security. The traditional idea of the “three-legged stool” of retirement income: personal savings, Social Security and pensions has become a bygone notion. Fewer and fewer workers can depend on a defined-benefit pension anymore and stagnant wages have made it harder for people to save for retirement on their own. That is why strengthening and improving Social Security is more important than ever. Americans know that Social Security is not an entitlement. It is the insurance that they have paid for and earned with every paycheck. We must fight back against misinformation that Social Security is bankrupt and won’t be there for future generations. The Trustees Report shows that Social Security will be able to pay 100% of benefits until 2034. But even after – Social Security would still be able to pay three-quarters of benefits due – that’s assuming Congress did nothing. But Congress must not wait until 2034 to take action. Saving Social Security doesn’t have to mean cutting benefits or asking workers to wait longer to retire. There is a better solution, the Social Security 2100 Act, which has been cosponsored by 172 of my colleagues. The Social Security 2100 Act would institute a: Modest across the board benefit increase; More accurate cost of living formula (CPI-E); New special minimum benefit; and a Tax cut for over 10 million beneficiaries. It will expand benefits in a meaningful way for current and future beneficiaries – without adding a penny to the deficit. As confirmed by the Social Security Administration’s Chief Actuary, Steve Goss, it is fully paid for and estimated to keep the system solvent beyond the 75-year window. We pay for it through two common-sense steps: Have millionaires and billionaires pay the same rate as everyone else. Currently, payroll taxes aren’t collected on wages over $128,400. My bill would simply reinstate payroll taxes for wages above $400,000. Gradually phase in a small increase in the contribution rate that workers and their employers pay into the system, but over 24 years. For the average worker, that means an additional 50 cents a week. To put this in context, for about the cost of a Starbucks latte – you’d get 9 weeks of payments for an improved Social Security system. Congress should commit to not just protecting, but enhancing Social Security benefits. Especially for women, who on average receive $4,000 fewer benefits annually than their male counterparts. The numbers are even worse for women of color – at least half or more would live below the poverty line if not for Social Security. The answer to addressing Social Security’s long-term fiscal challenges shouldn’t be cutting these already modest benefits, but enhancing them in a fiscally-responsible way as the Social Security 2100 Act does. The opportunity to strengthen Social Security for generations to come is now and I hope Congress will be courageous enough to seize it. Thank you and I look forward to today’s discussion. ###
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (WRDA 2018) last night, which contained a provision directing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to conduct expedited feasibility reports on repairing the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems: “The Hartford and East Hartford levees along the Connecticut River are one of our region’s most important assets, keeping our communities safe and protecting critical infrastructure from the threat of a flood disaster. However, the Army Corps of Engineers has identified urgent repairs that are needed if these systems are to continue to keep residents and businesses safe. This March, I had the opportunity to meet with Colonel William Conde, the U.S. Army Corps’ New England District Commander, who fully recognizes the problem. There is an urgent need for rehabilitation work on these levees. That is why I fought to include these provisions in this bill that direct the Army Corps to act on this problem and complete expedited feasibility reports to repair the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. This will bring them one step closer to eligibility for needed federal funding for repair work. I will continue to work with the Army Corps, Hartford, East Hartford, and community stakeholders to ensure that we never have to face a flooding catastrophe,” said Larson. “Getting the Hartford and East Hartford flood control projects on the list for expedited planning in the federal Water Resources Development Act is a big deal,” said Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin. “We’ve worked closely with Congressman Larson on this issue over the past two years, and I want to thank him for his tremendous partnership and leadership. Hartford’s decades-old flood control system is in dire need of investment and upgrade, and this is a necessary and important step toward securing federal funding in the future. Fixing our Connecticut River levees is critical to the safety and resiliency of our Capital City and the entire region – all the more urgent and important as climate change brings more frequent and more severe extreme weather events.” “This is great news for East Hartford and Hartford. East Hartford has taken great care to protect the community as it relates to the Flood Protection System. Since 2006, the Town has invested over $21 million for repairs, modifications, and upgrades. Continuing to make these improvements is critical for the Town. Having East Hartford and Hartford on the list for expedited planning in the federal Water Resources Development Act will help us keep our community safe. I thank Congressman Larson for his support and work on this issue,” said East Hartford Mayor Marcia Leclerc. The Hartford and East Hartford levee systems were originally constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers after catastrophic flooding during the hurricanes of 1936 and 1938. For over 70 years, the levees have protected both of these communities from the risk of flooding, however, the Army Corps has identified serious deficiencies that will require significant repairs if these aging systems are going to hold up. On the Hartford side alone, the system protects a significant portion of the city’s grand list including prime commercial, institutional, and residential real estate. Failure of the levees would jeopardize the I-84/I-91 interchange, the state’s largest waste-water treatment plant, among other critical infrastructure for the region. Congress traditionally takes up a WRDA bill every two years to authorize new water projects such as levees, dams, and harbors, and to provide direction to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. WRDA 2018 directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of a feasibility report on rehabilitation of the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. Competition of the feasibility report is a required step in the U.S. Army Corps’ project development process before a project can proceed to rehabilitation work. This is a critical step towards getting federal funding to make necessary repairs to the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. ###
06.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – John B. Larson (CT-01), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, released the following statement on the 2018 Social Security Trustees Report: “Once again, the Social Security Trustees confirmed what we all know – Social Security is stable financially for now, but needs a long-term solution. Workers pay into it over a lifetime and deserve to know that their earned benefits will be protected and enhanced, not recklessly cut. With the loss of traditional pensions, stagnant wages, rising health care costs, and many individuals being unable to save enough through other retirement vehicles, we are in the midst of a growing retirement crisis. That is why strengthening and improving Social Security is more important than ever. “The good news is that there is a path forward to put Social Security on the right track that doesn’t add a penny to the deficit, achieves solvency beyond the 75-year window, and expands benefits in a meaningful way. There can be no further delay with 10,000 Baby Boomers a day who are becoming eligible for Social Security benefits. Congress must act now because Social Security is not an entitlement, it is the insurance that they have paid for and earned. The Social Security 2100 Act, that I have introduced with over 170 of my colleagues, would increase benefits, cut taxes for working seniors, and ensure the program’s solvency for generations to come,” said Larson. ***** Important takeaways from the 2018 Social Security Trustees Report: Social Security’s reserves stand at $2.9 trillion. Social Security is projected to be able to pay full, earned benefits until 2034. After that time, even if Congress took no action, Social Security could still pay about three-quarters of benefits due. For more information about the Social Security 2100 Act, read the proposal here. ###
06.04.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after meeting with Housing and Urban Department (HUD) Secretary Dr. Ben Carson on the developments regarding the Clay Arsenal Renaissance Apartments and the recent decision by HUD to terminate the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments to the property and specifically to the owner Emmanuel Ku. “I want to thank Secretary Carson for taking the time and coming to Hartford to hear directly from myself, community leaders and most importantly the residents that have endured such hardship within this property. These residents rose-up, organized and demanded action to an injustice. For too long these residents have been subjected to unsanitary, dangerous, and deplorable conditions at Clay Arsenal Renaissance Apartments. These conditions are directly attributed to the neglect and disregard from their landlord and the building’s owner, Emmanuel Ku, an individual with an extensive history of exploiting low-income housing properties and the residents for personal gain. Last week’s announcement and today’s meeting was a step forward, but these tenants still have a long way to go. I will continue to work with them to see that these residents are relocated to a safe and healthy living environment, and to ensure that policies are put in place so that no other community has to endure what they have gone through,” said Larson. Last December Congressman Larson sent a letter to Secretary Carson demanding action for the residents of Clay Arsenal and has been an outspoken advocate for the Clay Arsenal residents and the Promise Zone neighborhoods. ###
05.31.2018	Congressmen John Larson (CT-1) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) issued the following statement regarding the decision by the Department of Interior to allow the Tribal-State agreement amendments between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut to go into effect: “The Department of the Interior has made effective the Tribal-State agreement amendments which it was obligated to do months ago. We are hopeful that this development allows the project to now move forward in the interest of tribes and the state. As the Inspector General continues its investigation, that timing will no doubt become a new focus,” Blumenthal, Murphy, Larson and Courtney said. Blumenthal, Murphy, Larson and Courtney sought an investigation by the OIG into Interior’s highly unusual decision to take no action regarding proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut. That investigation is ongoing.
05.24.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced a $1.5 million grant from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to FuelCell Energy, Inc. for hydrogen production research and development (R&D) that is compatible with nuclear energy sources. “This grant is a testament to FuelCell Energy’s commitment to developing cost-effective and environmentally responsible energy solutions,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, Larson, and Esty. “These federal dollars to support R&D will keep FuelCell Energy on the forefront of innovation, and we remain committed to advancing efforts that support Connecticut jobs and promote a cleaner, more energy-efficient future.” FuelCell Energy will be using the funding for materials R&D aimed at reducing the operating temperature of solid-oxide high-temperature electrolysis (HTE) to levels more compatible with advanced nuclear energy heat sources. ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01) in introducing the Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act in the Ways and Means Committee as an amendment to the JOBS for Success Act (H.R. 5861) reauthorizing the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. The amendment is aimed at ensuring that parents who receive TANF gain the skills and training that will allow them to gain long-term economic security. “I am proud to support my friend and colleague Mr. Neal’s amendment, the Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act (H.R. 5888). Nationally, 92 percent of TANF recipients are single-parents and there are nearly 10,000 TANF single-parent families in Connecticut. This amendment will invest $1 billion annually into helping TANF recipients gain the workforce development skills they need to get ahead by incentivizing partnerships with workforce development programs like those in the First District run by Goodwin College and the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT). Institutions like CCAT and Goodwin College in East Hartford are already providing innovative programs in workforce development targeted at helping these same populations. “Goodwin College’s student population is mostly female, many of whom are single-mothers working to better themselves for the sake of their children through the unique education and training support Goodwin offers. CCAT convenes a partnership of manufacturing employers and helps ensure their employees are linked to bus lines and daycares. We should be investing in forward-thinking programs like those at Goodwin College and CCAT if we are serious about helping parents get good jobs, which is exactly what this amendment would do. While I am disappointed that the Republican JOBS for Success Act passed out of committee without adopting any Democratic amendment, including our Improving Access to Good Jobs for Parents Act, I am glad that Chairman Brady agreed workforce training and development are areas of bipartisan interest for TANF. I look forward to working with my colleagues to make this a reality,” said Larson.
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “I was proud to vote to strengthen our national defense and support the extraordinary efforts done by the workers at our large companies like Pratt and Whitney, Kaman and the over 160 smaller manufacturers in the First District like GKN Aerospace in Cromwell and ACMT in Manchester who make up the manufacturing supply-chain. This bill also bolsters the progress of educational institutions in East Hartford like the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) and Goodwin College that are building curriculums that ensure that the First District and Connecticut have access to a well-trained and qualified workforce that is prepared for the next generation of manufacturing. The bottom line is that this was a win for the manufacturing ecosystem that helps drive the Connecticut economy, provide jobs for our talented workforce, and ensures that Connecticut-made aircraft engines, submarines, and helicopters will continue to provide our military with an unmatched supremacy in the air and in the sea. I would especially like to thank Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) for his work on the Armed Services Committee to ensure Connecticut’s priorities are always met,” said Larson. “Congressman Larson has been instrumental in helping defense manufacturers like GKN grow in Connecticut. He continues to support the supply chain through his work in Washington and by encouraging collaboration with government, academia and the private sector. The passage of the NDAA is welcome news for the defense industry and suppliers of the F-35,” said Tony Cacace, Consultant and former Executive at GKN Aerospace. “Our national defense supply chain has worked very hard to reduce costs and increase production so the best way to achieve this is to have secure funding with aggressive production rates to sustain these gains,” said Michael Polo, CEO ACMT. In the First Congressional District alone, work on the F-35 is supporting more than 4,600 jobs and is resulting in $545 million in economic activity this year. The First District is also home to 88 suppliers of the Navy’s submarine programs representing $198 million in purchase orders this year and more than 30 suppliers of our military’s helicopter programs representing $82 million. Personnel Raises military pay by 2.6% Requires the Department of Defense to establish a prescription drug monitoring program and share information with state prescription drug monitoring programs in order prevent opioid abuse within the military. Highlights of Connecticut's defense manufacturing priorities in the FY 2019 NDAA •$10.6 billion to purchase 77 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters; provides flexibility for the Department to procure additional fighters if additional program cost savings are achieved. •Accelerates modernization of 34 F–22A training and test aircraft to increase combat-capable F-22A fleet. •$2.3 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber •$2.79 billion in advance procurement and $5.3 billion to fully fund 2 Virginia-class submarines, including $1 billion in long lead-time materials for the third submarine in 2022 and 2023. •$2 billion for 12 KC-46A Tankers •$3 billion for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program •$1.2 billion for 54 UH-60 Blackhawks •$1.1 billion for purchase 8 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters •$1.1 billion for advance procurement of 10 Combat Search and Rescue Helicopters •$649 million for procurement and development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter as well as $24 million for upgrades to the existing fleet •$151 million for C-130H Modernization, including $55 million for eight blade propeller upgrades and $74 million for the engine enhancement program
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee’s approval of the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 (WRDA 2018): “Rehabilitating the levee systems in Hartford and East Hartford is one of our region’s most critical infrastructure challenges. Just this March, I had the opportunity to sit down with Col. William Conde, the U.S. Army Corps’ New England District Commander, who fully recognized the need to repair these levees to in order to prevent a flooding catastrophe from occurring. This provision in WRDA 2018 directing the Army Corps to expedite a feasibility report represents an important step forward towards gaining eligibility for federal funding for these projects. I applaud members of the House Transportation Committee for their work on this bipartisan bill, especially Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty, Chairman Bill Shuster, and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio,” said Larson. “Getting the Hartford and East Hartford flood control projects on the list for expedited planning in the federal Water Resources Development Act is a big deal,” said Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin. “We’ve worked closely with Congressman Larson on this issue over the past two years, and I want to thank him for his tremendous partnership and leadership. Hartford’s decades-old flood control system is in dire need of investment and upgrade, and this is a necessary and important step toward securing federal funding in the future. Fixing our Connecticut River levees is critical to the safety and resiliency of our Capital City and the entire region – all the more urgent and important as climate change brings more frequent and more severe extreme weather events.” “This is great news for East Hartford and Hartford. East Hartford has taken great care to protect the community as it relates to the Flood Protection System. Since 2006, the Town has invested over $21 million for repairs, modifications, and upgrades. Continuing to make these improvements is critical for the Town. Having East Hartford and Hartford on the list for expedited planning in the federal Water Resources Development Act will help us keep our community safe. I thank Congressman Larson for his support and work on this issue,” said East Hartford Mayor Marcia Leclerc. The Hartford and East Hartford levee systems were originally constructed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers after catastrophic flooding during the hurricanes of 1936 and 1938. For over 70 years, the levees have protected both of these communities from the risk of flooding, however, the Army Corps has identified serious deficiencies that will require significant repairs if these aging systems are going to hold up. On the Hartford side alone, the system protects a significant portion of the city’s grand list including prime commercial, institutional, and residential real estate. Failure of the levees would jeopardize the I-84/I-91 interchange, the state’s largest waste-water treatment plant, among other critical infrastructure for the region. Congress traditionally takes up a WRDA bill every two years to authorize new water projects such as levees, dams, and harbors, and to provide direction to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. WRDA 2018 directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of a feasibility report on rehabilitation of the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. Competition of the feasibility report is a required step in the U.S. Army Corps’ project development process before a project can proceed to rehabilitation work. This is a critical step towards getting federal funding to make necessary repairs to the Hartford and East Hartford levee systems. ###
05.23.2018	Washington – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after United Technologies Corps announced it will hire 35,000 new employees over the next five years and 2,000 of them will be hired in Connecticut in the next two years: “This morning’s announcement that UTC will hire 2,000 workers in Connecticut is great news for our state and demonstrates our strength as a hub for manufacturing, innovation, and as a home to a skilled workforce. This builds on the momentum from last year’s opening of an Innovation Hub in addition to a Pratt and Whitney Engineering and Technology Center in East Hartford this past year. These two investments will continue to innovate new R&D and build the technologies of tomorrow. I am also thrilled that the Small Business Administration will be partnering with UTC to create an initiative that will help train the over 160 small suppliers in my district to compete for supply chain contracts. This will continue to strengthen the manufacturing ecosystem in the First District, Connecticut, and I applaud their efforts,” said Larson.
05.21.2018	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of former State Senator Joe Harper. “The state of Connecticut has lost a good man and a great public servant with the passing of Joe Harper. Joe was a dear friend and a great legislator, who had an incredible sense of humor. He will be dearly missed. My sympathies are with his family and those that he loved,” said Larson. ###
05.18.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Mr. Chairman, thank you for calling today’s important hearing. The recent data breach at Equifax has left more than 145 million people wondering whether they will have their identity stolen or credit damaged. Their ability to get a mortgage, a small-business loan, or even a job is at the whim of criminals, whose use of that stolen information would wreak havoc on their financial security. It doesn’t matter if you’re in Plano, Texas or Hartford, Connecticut – or whether you are 6 weeks old or 96 years – cyber criminals don’t care. Their only interest is in profiting from your identity in a way that makes them as much money as possible. Unfortunately, Equifax is just one in a long list of data breaches where personal information about hard-working men and women has been compromised, including Social Security numbers. The problem of identity theft is well known and it affects our entire economy. We need to come together in a bipartisan way to strengthen privacy protections and safeguard financial security. All users of the Social Security Number – both government and business – need to change their ways. The widespread use of the Social Security Number as a way to both identify and authenticate individuals poses an ongoing risk of identity theft. The Number is valuable to identity thieves because too often it serves a dual purpose: it is used to identify which John Larson is trying to conduct a transaction, but it is also used to authenticate that the person pretending to be me, really is me. This practice assumes that only I have access to my Social Security Number. But given the extensive data breaches, this is no longer a safe assumption – as I believe our witnesses will all agree. I am looking forward to hearing our witnesses’ suggestions about better ways to ensure that online and digital transactions are safe and secure. There is a role here both for government and for industry. Unfortunately, there are steep headwinds in this fight. The pace of innovation in the technologies used by cyber criminals presents a difficult challenge. The threat landscape evolves continuously – and we have not kept up. At the same, we must be sure that the solutions that are adopted to better protect personal information are available to all Americans, regardless of their technological sophistication. Finally, we must keep Americans’ privacy concerns in mind – about how data is collected about individuals, how it is used, and who controls it. Just as we must come together to protect Americans’ personal identity information, we should also come together to protect the future of Social Security itself. For example, I think we should hold a hearing on my bill, the Social Security 2100 Act. It’s time to expand the most successful program in American history. I hope that we can begin to make progress on all of these issues. I look forward to hearing the testimony of the witnesses here today, and I look forward to continuing to work with you, Mr. Chairman, and the other members of this Committee to find solutions that work for all Americans. ###
05.10.2018	Today, Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.)applauded $1,015,900 in federal funding from the National Endowment of the Arts to support historical societies, museums, performances, and exhibitions across the state. “Connecticut is home to a dynamic arts scene, and this federal funding to support the arts will further enrich and enliven communities across the state from Hartford to Litchfield. This NEA funding will support research, preserve cultural resources, strengthen museums, and bring artistic projects to life, adding tremendous value to the national and local economies while educating and empowering communities. Despite these wins for Connecticut, the Fiscal Year 2019 Budget proposed by the Trump Administration shamefully calls for the elimination of these critical NEA funds. We will continue to fight tooth and nail to not only protect this funding, but strengthen and sustain it, keeping the arts alive so that Connecticut’s creative and historic gems can be preserved and cherished for years to come,” said the delegation. The full breakdown of the funding is below: Connecticut Historical Society: $30,000 to support the Connecticut Cultural Heritage Program and related activities in documenting folklife Connecticut Historical Society: $25,000 to support the Southern New England Traditional Arts Apprenticeship program Connecticut State Office of the Arts, Department of Economic and Community Development: $730,400 to support arts programs, services, and activities associated with carrying out the agency’s NEA-approved strategic plan HartBeat Ensemble: $10,000 to support the Youth Play Institute, a professional paid internship in acting, playwriting, theater design, or state management for young adults Hartford Symphony Orchestra: $15,500 to support a community engagement initiative involving public schools and community organizations Artspace, Inc.: $75,000 to support artist residences, youth skill-building, and arts programming to activate the Rock 2 Rock urban trail, linking East and West rock neighborhoods Connecticut Players Foundation, Inc. (Long Warf Theatre): $10,000 to support the Long Wharf Theatre’s Contemporary American Voices Festival, a festival of new plays in development Elm Shakespeare Company: $15,000 to support Free Shakespeare in the Park and accompanying educational and community engagement programs Music Haven, Inc.: $25,000 to support a tuition-free year-long music education program of the Haven String Quartet Wesleyan University: $25,000 to support dance performances and residency activities at Wesleyan University’s Center for the Arts Neighborhood Studios of Fairfield County: $10,000 to support a multidisciplinary arts education program for youth from underserved communities in Bridgeport Westport Country Playhouse, Inc.: $15,000 to support the world premiere production of Thousand Pines, a new play by Matthew Greene and directed by Austin Pendleton Hill-Stead Museum: $10,000 to support artist fees and sound production costs for the Sunken Garden Poetry Festival Litchfield Performing Arts, Inc: $10,000 to support the Litchfield Jazz Festival Pilobolus, Inc.: $10,000 to support the creation of a new work as part of the international Collaborators Project ###
05.09.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Former Connecticut Lieutenant Governor Eunice Groark: “Eunice Groark always exhibited class and grace as both Lieutenant Governor and as a public servant. It was an honor to serve and work alongside of her. She was always thoughtful and contemplative. She put the best interests of her community and state above politics. She served with distinction and enormous integrity. She had a wonderful sense humor and was a decent, caring person; the kind of person you would want in public service. She will be dearly missed,” said Larson. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation sent a letter to United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar expressing their opposition to the Trump administration’s proposed changes to the Title X program, which ensures that people have access to reproductive healthcare. The Trump administration’s planned “domestic gag rule” would ban any healthcare provider from receiving Title X funding if they even talk about abortion or abortion-related services with their patients. Beyond banning counseling and referrals, the gag rule would also impose additional requirements that would essentially prohibit providers that perform abortions—like Planned Parenthood—from participating in the Title X program. “Title X is the country’s only initiative dedicated to affordable birth control and reproductive health care. More than four million people – including nearly 45,000 in Connecticut – rely on Title X each year,” wrote the Members. “Despite the success of the Title X program, your administration is trying to completely remake the program so that it no longer focuses on birth control or reproductive health care. Instead, your administration would push our constituents toward abstinence-only programs and block patients from coming to Planned Parenthood. This is illegal, and could have devastating consequences and threaten health care for millions.” “In Connecticut, our health centers serve more than 80 percent of people who rely on Title X for birth control, cancer screenings, and other preventive care. Without Planned Parenthood of Southern New England, our state’s only Title X grantee, many of our constituents would have nowhere else to go for care,” continued the Members. “Everyone deserves the right to control their own bodies and future, and to get the care they want and need.” “The Trump-Pence administration wants to implement a domestic gag rule – an outrageous and dangerous policy that would threaten health care for millions of people. This has never been in place before in this country and would be a radical departure from the way health care has operated in the United States up until now,” said Susan Yolen, Vice President of Public Policy and Advocacy with Planned Parenthood of Southern New England. “It would prevent millions of people from getting birth control and preventive care at Planned Parenthood health centers, and at the same time would force health care providers to lie to their patients by forbidding them from providing accurate and complete information.” The full text of the letter is below, and a copy of the signed letter can be found here. May 4, 2018 The Honorable Alex Azar Secretary, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Azar, Title X is the country’s only initiative dedicated to affordable birth control and reproductive health care. More than four million people – including nearly 45,000 in Connecticut – rely on Title X each year. The program is meant to ensure that every person – regardless of where they live, how much money they make, what their background is, or whether or not they have health insurance – has access to basic, preventive reproductive health care, such as birth control, cancer screenings, STI testing and treatment, and regular check-ups. Many of our constituents who rely on Title X may not even know it exists, but without it they would not be able to access this essential care. Despite the success of the Title X program, your administration is trying to completely remake the program so that it no longer focuses on birth control or reproductive health care. Instead, your administration would push our constituents toward abstinence-only programs and block patients from coming to Planned Parenthood. This is illegal, and could have devastating consequences and threaten health care for millions. In Connecticut, our health centers serve more than 80 percent of people who rely on Title X for birth control, cancer screenings, and other preventive care. Without Planned Parenthood of Southern New England, our state’s only Title X grantee, many of our constituents would have nowhere else to go for care. Everyone deserves the right to control their own bodies and future, and to get the care they want and need. We will never stop fighting for birth control and health care for everyone – not just for those who can afford it. We urge you to maintain the Title X program in its current form, and do not implement the domestic gag rule. ###
05.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) along with U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), the Connecticut House delegation, and congressional gun violence prevention leaders held a press conference with Team 26 to call on Congress to take action and pass commonsense legislation to prevent gun violence. Video of Larson Speaks with Team 26 “I thank Monte Frank and the other members of Team 26 for continuing to show Congress their resolve by making their annual journey to Washington until action is taken on common sense gun safety measures. The horrific tragedy of Sandy Hook should have incited an immediate response from Congress, but sadly Congress remains complicit in the epidemic of gun violence in America. We need to put partisanship aside and take up a vote or continue to remain complicit,” said Larson. ###
05.07.2018	Hartford, CT – Last week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) celebrated the enactment of his bill, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act (HR 4547), into law with Disability Rights Connecticut. Gretchen Knauff, Executive Director of Disability Rights, was an early endorser of the bipartisan bill that Larson introduced earlier this year with Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX). In recognition of the essential work that Disability Rights Connecticut does on behalf of the state’s most vulnerable beneficiaries, Larson presented Disability Rights of Connecticut with a copy of the signed law. “As the lead Democrat on the Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee, I was proud to join with Chairman Sam Johnson in authoring this important bill to better protect vulnerable beneficiaries and improve oversight of the representative payees that are entrusted with managing their benefits. This is a great example of the lead Democrat and the lead Republican on Social Security working together to ensure that our most vulnerable beneficiaries were being protected, give beneficiaries more say in who gets appointed their rep payee, and lessen some administrative burdens on family members who are caring for loved ones. I want to thank Gretchen Knauff and the team at Disability Rights Connecticut for all the work that they do, and for their support of this new law,” said Larson. “Disability Rights Connecticut thanks Congressman Larson for his continued support of people with disabilities through his sponsorship and his unwavering support for this important legislation. The Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act requires critical monitoring of representative payees to ensure they are meeting their fiduciary responsibilities to their beneficiaries. We look forward to upholding the rights of beneficiaries as Disability Rights Connecticut provides that critical oversight,” said Gretchen Knauff, Executive Director of Disability Rights Connecticut. ###
05.04.2018	Hartford, CT - Last night, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the winner of the First Congressional District Art Competition. The competition is open to any high school student in Connecticut’s First District. This year there were 39 students who entered their artwork into the competition. From those, the one that took the top prize was Jayna Mikolaitis from Glastonbury High School. Mikolaitis’s artwork will be displayed for 11 months at an exhibit at the U.S. Capitol. She will also receive roundtrip airfare to attend the opening ceremony of this year’s exhibit, and a scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. “Congratulations to Jayna for winning this year’s Congressional District Art Competition and to this year’s honorees. I would like to thank everyone who submitted pieces and their teachers, everyone who participated is very talented,” said Larson. “Every year I look forward to seeing the creative and passionate pieces that students produce. Our arts programs in our schools are vital and we must continue to support them and our students in their efforts.” The judges also awarded six honorable mentions to: -Amayia Deja Giscombe -Victoria Beaton -Haley Weinberg - Amanda Ouk -Emma Jean Jabs -Casidhe Hughes ###
05.02.2018	West Hartford, CT - Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Madison Henry, a junior at Kingswood Oxford from Glastonbury, CT, with the Silver Congressional Award medal. The Congressional Award was established by Congress in 1979. It recognizes students who have committed to bettering and challenging themselves and to give back to their local communities. “Madison has gone out of her comfort zone and challenged herself to achieve the Silver Congressional Award. It is inspiring to see someone so young, be so driven and hard-working. I am proud to have a student like her in the First District,” said Larson. Madison received the Silver Congressional Award medal for achieving high-marks in the four standards specified in the Congressional Award criteria: 1. in voluntary public service, 2. personal development, 3. physical fitness, and 4. expedition/exploration. To meet each of her goals, Madison volunteered with the Conanicut Island Sailing Foundation, Meals on Wheels America, and in Macchi community of Paraguay, where she learned new techniques to help her to become a better at sailing (capsizing, flying a haul, and navigating rough waters). She improved upon her videographer skills by recording, editing, and creating short films. For her physical fitness goal she wanted to improve her skills as a center for basketball after a torn ACL. She gained flexibility and strength which improved her jump. She also traveled to Alburgh, Vermont where she shadowed a maple syrup farm for her expedition. ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after speaking with Governor Ricardo Rosselló of Puerto Rico. They discussed the recovery process from Hurricane Maria and the path forward for the island to ensure that our fellow Americans are getting the full assistance they need. “After speaking with Governor Rosselló this morning, I was further encouraged by his tenacity as he continues to fight for Puerto Rico’s recovery. I will continue to work with him along with the many community members and leaders in my district whose families were affected, as well as other leaders across the state, like the President of Central Connecticut State University, Dr. Zulma Toro, to ensure we are doing everything we can for those impacted on the island and those displaced because of the storm. These joint efforts represent how we can best ensure that our fellow Americans can successfully rebuild their lives after this disaster,” said Larson. Congressman Larson wrote a letter last fall to the President expressing his desire for immediate action to assist the island. The Congressman also sat down and spoke with his Republican colleague, Commissioner Jennifer Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico, last November on the specific needs of Puerto Rico and how both the public and private sectors can work together to ensure a coordinated recovery effort. In addition, the Congressman has been speaking and meeting with groups in Hartford like the SAMA, the Center for Latino Progress, Family Life Education, the Hispanic Federation, and CREC Hurricane Relief Center. In February, Larson voted in favor of the Bipartisan Budget Act, which included $89.3 billion in disaster relief funding, including aid for vital infrastructure recovery in Puerto Rico. In March Congressman Larson met with families displaced by Hurricane Maria at the Red Roof Inn in Hartford. And, next week he will have a meeting with FEMA, HUD, CT Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection, Disaster Case Managers and local support staff to address the ongoing needs of the survivors. Larson se reunió con el Gobernador Ricardo Rosselló de Puerto Rico WASHINGTON, D.C. - Hoy, el Congresista John B. Larson (CT-01) dio a conocer la siguiente declaración después de hablar con el Gobernador Ricardo Rosselló de Puerto Rico. Discutieron el proceso de recuperación del huracán María y el camino a seguir para la isla a fin de garantizar que nuestros conciudadanos estadounidenses reciban la asistencia completa que necesitan. "Después de hablar con el Gobernador Rosselló esta mañana, me alentó aún más su tenacidad mientras continúa luchando por la recuperación de Puerto Rico. Continuaré trabajando con él junto con los muchos miembros de la comunidad y líderes de mi distrito cuyas familias se vieron afectadas, así como con otros líderes en todo el estado, como el Presidente de la Universidad Estatal Central de Connecticut, Dr. Zulma Toro, para asegurarnos de que estamos haciendo todo lo posible por los afectados en la isla y los desplazados a causa de la tormenta. Estos esfuerzos conjuntos representan cómo podemos garantizar que nuestros conciudadanos estadounidenses puedan reconstruir sus vidas exitosamente después de este desastre ", dijo Larson. El Congresista Larson escribió una carta el otoño pasado al Presidente expresando su deseo de acción inmediata para ayudar a la isla. El Congresista también se sentó y habló con su colega, la Comisionada Jennifer González-Colon de Puerto Rico, en noviembre sobre las necesidades específicas de Puerto Rico y cómo los sectores público y privado pueden trabajar juntos para garantizar un esfuerzo de recuperación coordinado. Además, el Congresista ha estado hablando y reuniéndose con grupos en Hartford como el SAMA, el Centro para el Progreso Latino, la Educación para la Vida Familiar, la Federación Hispana y el Centro de Ayuda y Alivio de CREC. En febrero, Larson votó a favor de la Ley de Presupuesto Bipartidista, que incluía $ 89.3 mil millones en fondos de alivio de desastres, cual incluye la ayuda para la recuperación de infraestructura vital en Puerto Rico. En marzo, el Congresista Larson se reunió con familias desplazadas por el huracán María en el Red Roof Inn en Hartford. Y, la próxima semana tendrá una reunión con FEMA, HUD, el Departamento de Servicios de Emergencia y Protección Pública de CT, administradores de casos de desastre y personal de apoyo local para abordar las necesidades constantes de los sobrevivientes. ###
04.27.2018	Yesterday, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) sent a letter to Governor Malloy outlining actions the State of Connecticut can take to protect residents from the Trump administration’s disastrous healthcare policies—which will raise people’s premiums and dramatically expand the number of uninsured people. “Unfortunately, the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans have actively pushed policies that depress enrollment in health insurance, and raise premiums and out of pocket costs for middle class families. The Trump Administration cut funding for Marketplace advertising by 90 percent, slashed in-person assistance through the navigator program and increased premiums for middle class families by unilaterally refusing to pay cost sharing reductions,” wrote the Members. “These actions have had devastating consequences for working families. According to the latest data from Gallup, 3.2 million fewer people had health insurance coverage during the first year of the Trump Administration, relative to 2016.” “The repeal of the individual mandate beginning in 2019 and proposed Trump Administration regulations on short-term limited-duration plans and association health plans will further destabilize the individual market and raise costs for American families. According to a recent analysis conducted by the Urban Institute, the elimination of the individual mandate, coupled with the Administration’s efforts to sabotage the ACA, will increase 2018 premiums by 18.2 percent on average, and will result in 6.4 million more people uninsured in 2019. The analysis estimates that the state of Connecticut will see an estimated 21 percent increase in the number of uninsured,” continued the Members. “In the absence of a commitment from President Trump and the Republican-led Congress to protect Americans’ access to health care, States can and must step up to ensure families are protected from crushing health care costs, by ensuring access to affordable insurance that covers needed benefits.” The full text of the letter is below, and a copy of the signed letter can be found here. April 26, 2018 The Honorable Dannel P. Malloy Governor Office of the Governor 210 Capitol Avenue Hartford, Connecticut 06106-1535 Dear Governor Malloy, We write to you to request your assistance in protecting our constituents’ health insurance and reducing out of pocket health care costs for working families. Unfortunately, the Trump Administration and Congressional Republicans have actively pushed policies that depress enrollment in health insurance, and raise premiums and out of pocket costs for middle class families. The Trump Administration cut funding for Marketplace advertising by 90 percent, slashed in-person assistance through the navigator program and increased premiums for middle class families by unilaterally refusing to pay cost sharing reductions. These actions have had devastating consequences for working families. According to the latest data from Gallup, 3.2 million fewer people had health insurance coverage during the first year of the Trump Administration, relative to 2016. The repeal of the individual mandate beginning in 2019 and proposed Trump Administration regulations on short-term limited-duration plans and association health plans will further destabilize the individual market and raise costs for American families. According to a recent analysis conducted by the Urban Institute, the elimination of the individual mandate, coupled with the Administration’s efforts to sabotage the ACA, will increase 2018 premiums by 18.2 percent on average (in states that do not prohibit or limit short term plans), and will result in 6.4 million more people uninsured in 2019. The analysis estimates that the state of Connecticut will see an estimated 21 percent increase in the number of uninsured. In addition, premiums in ACA compliant plans in Connecticut would increase by 16.5 percent due to the expansion of STLD plans and the elimination of the individual mandate. In the absence of a commitment from President Trump and the Republican-led Congress to protect Americans’ access to health care, States can and must step up to ensure families are protected from crushing health care costs, by ensuring access to affordable insurance that covers needed benefits. There are a number of actions at the state level that would help increase coverage and improve the affordability of care for families in our state that will also counteract the harmful work of Republicans in Washington. I urge you to work to implement some or all of these options to help ensure stability and lower costs for our residents. Six potential options are listed below: Protect state residents by limiting the sale of sub-par junk insurance plans. The Trump Administration has further weakened consumer protections by allowing plans to be sold that do not meet basic benefit or financial protection standards. These junk plans would return patients to the days where only upon illness did they discover their plans imposed unreasonable limits on coverage and excluded needed benefits. In the past, consumers faced more than $100 million in unpaid claims when fly-by-night companies purporting to sell insurance became insolvent. In addition, expanding access to junk insurance plans negatively affects the risk pool in the ACA-compliant market, thereby increasing premiums for middle class families. While the Trump Administration has loosened federal regulations, strong state protections can prevent such plans from appearing in the state market to scam unknowing customers. For example, states could blunt the destabilizing effect of a proposed regulation on short-term limited duration plans by requiring that these plans comply with key consumer protections, or by limiting the duration of these plans and preventing renewals. Governors and Insurance Commissioners should act pre-emptively to keep bad actors out of the insurance market. Boost coverage (and lower costs) by increasing outreach, enrollment and marketing. States can increase efforts to connect consumers to coverage and increase awareness of the insurance marketplaces. While the Trump Administration dramatically cut the budget for marketing and outreach, and has refused to use funds designated for these purposes, states can and should redouble on the ground efforts, including marketing targeted at hard to reach groups. Awareness of the marketplaces and available financial assistance remain very low, and younger and healthier consumers are more likely to remain uninsured without significant advertising campaigns. Investments in outreach, enrollment and marketing help ensure a diverse risk pool, bringing premiums down for consumers. For instance, Covered California estimates that its extensive investment in marketing and outreach has translated into 6-8 percent lower premiums. States interested in conducting outreach could ask that federal funds currently not being used for their intended purposes be sent directly to the states for their own outreach and marketing efforts. Strengthen state oversight of the individual market to improve plan participation and lower costs. State regulators in all states can work with plans to ensure that every rating area has a plan available and increase competition to reduce costs and increase choice. Demonstrating this commitment and increasing communication with issuers at the state level has the potential to reverse the Trump Administration’s ongoing efforts to sabotage the individual market. Protect consumers by ensuring their health plan provides essential health benefits, like hospital care or prescription drugs. While Republican legislative attempts to undermine critical health benefits like maternity care and prescription drugs have not succeeded to date, the Trump Administration is considering steps that would allow plans to charge more for certain life-saving benefits or allow plans to exclude certain needed items from coverage altogether. States and localities have the opportunity to demonstrate the importance of these essential health benefits and ensure equal access to needed care by passing their own requirements to protect residents and bolster the intent of current law and regulations. Use existing Affordable Care Act (ACA) authority to craft a reinsurance program to reduce health insurance premiums. A number of states have sought State Innovation waivers under Section 1332 of the ACA to create reinsurance funds to stabilize the individual market. These funds protect consumers from dramatic premium increases by paying claims above a certain limit or paying for claims for certain specific high-cost conditions. Removing these claims or conditions through reinsurance allows plans to reduce premiums for other consumers. Broaden the insurance risk pool by passing a state-level individual mandate or similar policy designed to boost enrollment. Passing a state level individual mandate would both increase coverage and reduce premiums for consumers. After Massachusetts passed its own individual mandate prior to the ACA, premiums decreased by double digits and coverage increased from 70 to 92 percent. The Congressional Budget Office projects that the repeal of the individual mandate in the Republican tax law will result in 13 million people losing coverage and 10 percent higher premiums each year. Restoring the mandate at the state level would help insulate states (and insurance premiums) against these adverse effects. While it is clear that Republicans in Washington will continue their efforts to undermine insurance coverage, eliminate consumer protections, and increase out of pocket health costs for middle class families, taking some or all of the steps outlined above could help mitigate the impact of their actions. In fact, these efforts could even lower costs and increase coverage in our state. We look forward to working with you and your administration to help make these options a reality. Thank you for your consideration. ###
04.24.2018	Today, U.S. Representative John Larson (D-1) and U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.)announced $1.4 million in funding from the Department of Veterans Affairs to fund construction projects at the Connecticut Veterans Home in Rocky Hill through the VA State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program. “These federal dollars will modernize and update the Connecticut Veterans Home in Rocky Hill for the veterans living there,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, and Larson. “Connecticut veterans have courageously served our country and deserve to live comfortably in homes that are both modern and safe. We applaud the Department of Veterans Affairs for making this wise investment in our veterans and will continue to advocate for funds that will benefit veterans across our state.” “We look forward to securing these federal funds in support of improving the lives and safety of our Connecticut veterans,” said Veterans Affairs Commissioner Thomas Saadi. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, the new funding can be used where needed for repairs, renovation or new construction, and is part of an Omnibus Bill that represents the largest allocation to the more than 50-year-old State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program; funding for the program has averaged $94 million over the last five years. The State Veterans Home Construction Grant Program provides up to 65 percent of the cost to build and renovate facilities. ###
04.19.2018	(HARTFORD, CT) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today announced a $5.5 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support Connecticut efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. The funding is the second of two rounds from the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in December 2016. The law included emergency federal funding to fight opioid addiction, as well as significant reforms to the mental health system and funding for medical research on cancer and other diseases. “This new federal funding is a big step forward in combating the opioid epidemic in our state,” said the delegation. “We’ve seen the devastating impact of this epidemic in countless towns across Connecticut and have heard loud and clear from families and individuals struggling with addiction that more help is needed. We will continue working with our colleagues in Congress to ensure that Connecticut gets the funding needed to support the programs and services that play a major role in this fight.” According to HHS, today’s funding will reach 57 states and territories totaling $485 million to continue the Nation’s efforts to combat the opioid crisis. The Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants, which were created by the 21st Century Cures Act, are administered by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) within HHS. ###
04.18.2018	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $1,500,333 in federal grants to members of the national NeighborWorks network serving Connecticut. The funding will support efforts to develop and preserve affordable housing, revitalize and sustain neighborhoods, and create jobs. “These federal dollars will increase access to affordable, high quality housing in Connecticut while creating jobs and boosting our local economies,” said the delegation. “From Stamford to New Britain, NeighborWorks is on the forefront of building stronger, more resilient communities. We will continue to fight any callous attempts to cut this critical program so NeighborWorks organizations throughout Connecticut can continue to make a positive impact for years to come.” A breakdown of the awards can be found below: NeighborWorks Organization Name Grant Award Housing Development Fund, Inc. $420,000 Mutual Housing Association of Greater Hartford, Inc. $205,000 Mutual Housing Association of Southwestern Connecticut, Inc. $108,333 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Britain, Inc. $115,000 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven, Inc. $227,000 Neighborhood Housing Services of Waterbury, Inc. $173,500 NeighborWorks New Horizons $251,500 NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization established by Congress in 1978 that supports and enhances a network of nearly 250 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations that bring together residents, private-sector business leaders, and representatives of local government to support local solutions to community development and affordable housing in urban, suburban and rural communities. ###
04.17.2018	Washington, D.C. – In today’s Ways and Means Committee Hearing on Jobs and Opportunity, Secretary of Labor Alexander Acosta accepted Rep. John B. Larson’s (CT-01) invitation to visit Connecticut and see the successful workforce collaborations led by the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), Goodwin College, International Association of Machinists (IAM), local community colleges, and employers like Pratt and Whitney. Watch Larson’s and Acosta’s exchange here or click the image. “In Connecticut, we have been working very hard with the academic sector, labor unions, and the private sector to close the expanding jobs gap. Institutions like Goodwin College and the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) are helping to close both the jobs and skills gap by promoting a robust manufacturing curricula. Goodwin College for example, offers various associate degrees in machining, supply chain management, accounting, a bachelor’s degree, and various in-demand certification courses. They also make sure to have machinists from the International Association of Machinists (IAM), as well as local employers, advise on making sure the curriculum matches the swift changes in technology. In Connecticut, we see the importance of keeping in lock-step with the industry when it comes to educational needs to keep the workforce in sync with our advanced manufacturing ecosystem. That is why I invited Secretary Acosta to come see the great work the First District of Connecticut is achieving and am pleased that he accepted my invitation. I look forward to hosting him in Connecticut to show him the types of programs that I believe could serve as a national model,” said Larson. ###
04.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump announced limited military strikes to dismantle the Syrian Regime's military assets used to carry out recent chemical attacks on a suburb of Damascus. “The President made a decision to dismantle military assets used by the Syrian government to conduct horrific chemical attacks against its own civilian population in violation of international law. I commend the President for working with our allies to conduct swift action to punish such heinous crimes against humanity. However, any military action is tantamount to an act of war and Congress bears a constitutional responsibility to address the Administration's authorities before any further decisions are made. The President mentioned ‘sustained’ efforts tonight in his address, I call on Speaker Ryan to bring up a new Authorization for the Use of Military Force to address these efforts and to create a clear path forward. As a nation of laws, it is a shame that Congress has continued to forego its authority in such critical times. Congress needs to return to Washington and have a sobering debate on a necessary scope of authorities needed to sufficiently address unfolding events in Syria and the potential escalation of the conflict,” said Larson. ###
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, President Trump signed into law the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 (H.R. 4547). Introduced by Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT), this bipartisan legislation will modernize the representative payee program so that it will better protect Social Security beneficiaries who are unable to manage their own benefits. Ranking Member Larson said: “The enactment of this bill would not have happened if not for the efforts of my colleague and friend, Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee and lead sponsor of the bill. It was his leadership that brought this bill across the finish line to the President’s desk, and the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act will be another addition to his enduring legacy. This new law will ensure that the Representative Payee program lives up to its charge to protect the most vulnerable Social Security recipients and will help those who are unable to manage their own benefits because they are children or suffer from a disease like Alzheimer’s. This bipartisan bill, now law, strengthens the selection and monitoring of Representative Payees and reduces some of the administrative burdens that families face when caring for loved ones.” Chairman Johnson said: “This new law is great news for the millions of Social Security beneficiaries who rely on a representative payee to help them manage their benefits. Not only will it provide much-needed accountability for the representative payee program, but it also puts measures into place that ensure newly selected representative payees are qualified and trustworthy. I thank Congressman Larson for working with me on this important legislation that will ensure Americans––from children, seniors, to individuals with disabilities––will have more peace of mind when it comes to having a representative payee they can trust.” Specifically, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 will: Strengthen oversight of representative payees by increasing the number of performance reviews of payees, requiring additional types of reviews, and improving the effectiveness of reviews; Reduce the burden on families by eliminating the requirement to file the annual accounting form for representative payees who are parents living with their children or who are spouses; Protect the most vulnerable beneficiaries through improved information-sharing by requiring the Social Security Administration (SSA) to identify whether a beneficiary is in foster care and reassess whether the payee is appropriate, and by directing the SSA to study how better to coordinate with Adult Protective Services and with state guardianship courts; Enhance personal control by allowing beneficiaries to make a designation of their preferred payee in advance, and improve payee selection by requiring the SSA to assess the appropriateness of the order-of-preference list it uses to select payees; Limit overpayment liability for children in the child welfare system; and Ensure that no beneficiary has a barred payee by codifying the policy that bans individuals with certain criminal convictions from serving as payees (including individuals currently serving as payees) and prohibiting individuals who have payees from serving as a payee for others. Background: In 1939, Congress first authorized the SSA to make benefit payments to another person or organization – known as a representative payee – when a beneficiary is not capable of managing his or her own Social Security benefits. Today, this program helps millions of Social Security beneficiaries, including children, seniors, and individuals with disabilities. However, it has been 14 years since the last overhaul of the representative payee program, and many organizations have raised significant concerns about the SSA’s management of this program. CLICK HERE for the legislative text of the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018. CLICK HERE to access the full list of letters of support for H.R. 4547 from over 45 advocacy groups, including AARP, the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and Equip for Equality. * To note, this is the sixth bill signed into law since the beginning of 2018 that Congressman Larson has sponsored or been the lead Democrat on. To see more visit his website here.
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after participating in a Ways & Means Committee hearing on the effect of tariffs on the economy and jobs: “We need to continue exploring the issues that were raised at today’s Ways and Means hearing on tariffs. This is a question of tactics, not goals. All stakeholders and members on both sides of the aisle agree that China is engaging in anti-competitive practices that are hurting the United States. How do we best address this problem that we all agree exists? Tariffs can be used as a tool but they can also become a weapon. We need to make sure that tariffs don’t result in collateral damage to American companies such as Jarvis Airfoil in my district and other advanced manufacturers. Globalization is here to stay and as Richard Trumka has said, we need a wholesale rewrite of global trade policy to ensure that the impact of globalization helps – not harms – working families. I encourage the Ways & Means Committee to hold more hearings on this important subject,” said Larson. ###
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Republicans attempted to pass a measure requiring devastating cuts to the middle class, seniors, Social Security, and Medicare having already passed a disastrous tax bill that gave tax relief to the wealthy and corporations. Larson opposed the measure and spoke out on the floor of the House of Representatives, the measure ultimately failed. Click here to watch Larson’s floor remarks prior to the vote. “My Republican colleagues attempted today to take away the hard-earned Social Security and Medicare benefits that retirees have earned and paid for. They tried to do so by pushing a harmful budget resolution that would cut benefits in order to pay for their $2 trillion deficit-busting tax cuts for corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent,” said Larson. “This vote is designed to allow Republican Members to avoid responsibility for the fiscal disaster they have created and a backdoor attempt to fulfill their long-held desire to gut Social Security and Medicare. Their solution to fix Social Security is to cut it. The real travesty here is that there are solutions to responsibly fix Social Security – without slashing benefits or asking seniors to wait longer to receive the benefits they have earned and paid for their entire working lives. The solution is the Social Security 2100 Act, which both expands and enhances Social Security for generations to come without adding a penny to the deficit. It would also cut taxes for over 10 million seniors, adjust the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) to ensure benefits keep up with the costs that seniors are incurring, and institute a new minimum benefit to ensure that no senior – and especially women – can retire into poverty after a lifetime of work. However, the Republicans won’t give this solution a vote, let alone a hearing. I commend my colleagues for joining with me to defeat this harmful measure, and urge my Republican colleagues to instead take up the Social Security 2100 Act.” A new report from the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities found that this resolution would cut Social Security by: $325 billion in 2025 And a total of $2.6 trillion by 2028 The following organizations have written to Congress to urge defeat of this harmful resolution: AARP Center for Medicare Advocacy National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare Social Security Works Medicare Rights Center Strengthen Social Security Coalition Leadership Council of Aging Organizations ###
04.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Larson (CT-01), Lead Democrat on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee gave the following remarks after the Republicans attempted to pass a measure requiring devastating cuts to the middle class, seniors, Social Security, and Medicare having already passed a disastrous tax bill that gave tax relief to the wealthy and corporations. Click here to watch Larson’s remarks. “What a profile in lack of courage this is today, exhibited in the House of Representatives. But it does give us an opportunity, however limited the time is, to expose a lot of the myths, like this notion that the other side continues to perpetuate that Social Security and Medicare are entitlements. Newsflash! It's the insurance that the American people have paid for. Newsflash! 10,000 baby boomers a day become eligible for Social Security. Newsflash! The average woman in this country, when they retire, gets $14,000 annually from Social Security. For more than half of them, that's all they have to live on. And yet these bastions of courage on the other side would like to cut these programs. Not by coming to the floor of the House of Representatives and having a vote on it. Not by having a discussion in a committee or even the semblance of a hearing. But by somehow deciding to introduce an amendment where they'll never, ever have to vote on what their constituents will actually have to face day in and day out. These are American citizens who have paid for an insurance program, not an entitlement. It's called FICA. The Federal Insurance Contribution Act. Whose contribution? The American people's contribution. If you want to take it away, have the courage to bring up a bill and vote on it. How about we increase the benefits for the people of this country who need it?” Larson is the lead sponsor of the Social Security 2100 Act, which would enhance and expand Social Security, give current beneficiaries a benefit bump, and make the program solvent beyond the 75 year window. He continues to encourage his colleagues to come together and work on solutions, not cuts for this critical insurance and retirement program. ###
04.11.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on Speaker Paul Ryan’s decision to not run for re-election. “I respect Speaker Ryan’s decision to not seek re-election in the fall. Paul and I both entered Congress together in the class of 1999. While our views are often opposed, his decency and civility to his colleagues, and the process in which he earnestly arrives at his beliefs are qualities that I admire. “His concerns of the increasing pressure the Speakership has placed on his family, most notably his wife and children are well chronicled and I commend him for placing his family first. I wish Paul and Janna the best,” said Larson. ###
04.10.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that the First District will be receiving 11 additional HUD VASH Vouchers worth $86,866. HUD VASH Vouchers are rental assistance for homeless veterans and include case management and supportive clinical services through the Department of the Veterans Affairs (VA). “No one who bravely served our country should ever be homeless. Connecticut has made great strides in addressing homelessness, especially for veterans, however this is an ongoing mission. I applaud this award that will help us sustain efforts to provide these dedicated men and women with a safe, supportive home,” said Larson. CT-01 Recipients: The City of Hartford received five HUD VASH Vouchers, totaling $36,880 The Hartford Housing Authority received one HUD VASH Voucher, totaling $6,729 The West Hartford Housing Authority received five HUD VASH Vouchers, totaling $43,257 An additional five HUD VASH Vouchers will go to the CT Department of Housing, totaling $44,318
04.06.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Judge Howard Owens: “Connecticut has lost a great public servant with the passing of Judge Howard Owens this week. He was an outstanding legislator, judge, and friend. My thoughts and prayers go out to his wife Ann, his children, family, and friends.” ###
04.06.2018	(Hartford, CT)—Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation applauded the approval of $8.08 million in Federal Low Income Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC) that will generate $79.9 million in equity from private investors for affordable multifamily housing developments in East Haven, Hartford, Montville, and Norwalk. The LIHTC program received a 12.5 percent increase over the next four years in the recently passed omnibus spending bill with support from the federal delegation. “This smart federal investment is a win-win for Connecticut—increasing access to affordable housing and boosting economic development in our communities. These projects will increase quality of life for low-income residents and their families, making our neighborhoods a better place to live, work, and grow. We’re proud to have secured a 12.5 percent increase in funding for these tax credits in the latest spending bill that will deliver real, sustained housing support to communities throughout Connecticut,” said the delegation. The developments will create 377 rental units: 296 designated as affordable and 81 designated as market rate. The redevelopment of these properties is projected to generate 704 jobs in construction and related fields, $170.2 million in economic activity and $14.6 million in net state revenue. As announced by the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, the following developments received low income housing tax credits: · East Haven - East Haven High School Apartments, $1,424,468 million in tax credits: Renovation and adaptive reuse of the former East Haven High School, built in 1936, will create 70 units of affordable elderly housing, 50 of them for households with incomes of up to 60% of Area Median Income. The remaining 20 units are designated as market rate. There will be 14 units with supportive services for families and individuals who are chronically homeless. The Town of East Haven will maintain its ownership of the building’s pool, gymnasium, and auditorium. · Hartford - The Hub on the Park, $999,499 million in tax credits: The existing building at 981 Park Street in the Frog Hollow section of Hartford will be demolished and replaced with 45 new units of mixed-income housing. There will be 5 market-rate units and 45 units for households with incomes of up to 60% of Area Median Income. The development is located near the Parkville CTfastrack station and will include the substantial rehabilitation of three 3-family homes adjoining the property. · Montville - Oxoboxo Lofts, $1,425,001 million in tax credits: The adaptive reuse and conversion of a historic mill complex in Montville will create 72 new units, with 15 supportive units, 57 units for households with incomes of up to 60% of Area Median Income. Oxoboxo Lofts is the first significant housing development in the area for decades. · Norwalk - Washington Village, Phase Two, $1,868,562 million in tax credits: As part of the Master Redevelopment Plan Project of the Washington Village public housing plan, by the Norwalk Housing Authority, 85 units of housing, 42 of them replacing demolished units, will be built. There will be 20 market rate units and 65 units for households with incomes of up to 60% of Area Median Income. The complex will include 17 units of supportive housing. Additional public infrastructure improvements of $2.8 million are part of Phase Two development. · Hartford - Westbrook Village I, $1,680,000 million in tax credits: As the first phase of the redevelopment of the post-World War II housing development, the new Westbrook Village I will have 75 new units, 15 with supportive services. The mixed-income development will have 15 market rate units and 60 units for households with incomes of up to 60% of Area Median Income. This phase includes the demolition of 100 units in 23 buildings and abatement of the site. The new development will have access to transit and include a community space and playground. · Hartford - Willow Creek Apartments Phase III, $689,931 million in tax credits: The third phase of redevelopment of another post World War II, development, Willow Creek will replace the former Chester A Bowles Park units in Hartford’s Blue Hills neighborhood. The remaining buildings on the site will be demolished, and replaced with new construction, a community space, management office, laundry facility, business center, and fitness facility. The mixed-income property will include 6 market-rate units and 24 units for households with incomes up to 60% of Area Median Income. ###
04.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) announced that she will not be seeking re-election in 2018: “Elizabeth Esty’s career in public service has been marked by commitment and dedication. The story of Anna Kain was heartbreaking. Elizabeth has acknowledged and regretted how she handled that situation. In what I know was a difficult decision for her, she has decided not to seek re-election. Her commitment now is to make the workplace safe for all employees, and that is what all of our commitments should be. No one should ever feel unsafe in their workplace nor should they ever have to tolerate abuse and harassment. There needs to be strong protocols put in place that ensure that when incidents do happen, victims are put first, not the abuser. “I look forward to working with my friend and colleague for the remainder of her term. My heart goes out to her and her family, but I know she will continue to do what she has always done, and lean into this issue as she has on gun violence and a myriad of other issues. My heart also goes out to Anna and all victims of workplace harassment and abuse. This type of behavior is not acceptable in Congress or in any workplace and I will continue to work to change that.” ###
03.23.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT), released the following statement on the passing of the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017 in the Senate by unanimous consent. The bill had previously passed the House of Representatives by a 396 to 0 vote. It now goes to the President for a signature to become law: “This bill will provide much needed protections for the most vulnerable Social Security beneficiaries. The Social Security Administration Representative Payee Program helps approximately 8 million Social Security beneficiaries manage their benefits if they are unable to do so themselves, such as children or those with who have a condition like Alzheimer’s disease. This bill will strengthen the selection and monitoring of the entrusted individuals who manage benefits on behalf of others while reducing administrative difficulties on families caring for loved ones. The passing of the bill would not have happened if it was not for the efforts of my colleague and friend, Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX), Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee and lead sponsor of the bill. He was paramount in ushering this bill to the President’s desk, and the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act will be another addition to his enduring legacy,” said Larson.
03.23.2018	[WASHINGTON, DC] – U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced that the Omnibus Appropriations bill, which passed Congress last night, includes $12 million in federal funding for Long Island Sound programs – $4 million more than last year’s funding level. The Omnibus also includes $65 million for the National Sea Grant College Program base – $2 million more than last year’s funding level, and $11.5 million for the Marine Aquaculture Program – $2.5 million more than last year. “We are pleased to announce critical funding that will help preserve the Long Island Sound and our coastal communities – two bastions of Connecticut’s economy and natural beauty,” said the delegation. “Federal funding for the Long Island Sound supports jobs in our state’s tourism, shellfish, manufacturing and maritime sectors, and will protect the Sound’s diverse ecosystem for years to come. The Sea Grant Program is vital to the development of local business and the conservation of towns along Connecticut’s shoreline. Together, this robust funding will yield long-term economic benefits for future generations.” The Long Island Sound borders Connecticut and New York, with 9 million people living on the coast and 24 million people living within 50 miles of the coast. Although decades of high levels of development, pollution, and releases of untreated sewage have severely hurt the Sound’s water quality, the Sound’s economic contribution, including from sport and commercial fishing, boating, recreation, and tourism is estimated to be between $17 billion and $37 billion annually. Federal funding for the Long Island Sound supports environmental programs that reduce the amount of nitrogen entering the Long Island Sound from sewage treatment plants and address low oxygen levels and nitrogen levels that have depleted fish and shellfish populations as well as hurt shoreline wetlands. The National Sea Grant College Program is a critical source of funding for Connecticut’s Sea Grant Colleges program at UConn Avery Point. The Sea Grant program supports stewardship of marine resources through research, education, outreach and technology transfer. In Connecticut, this funding helps preserve coastal economies through education partnerships with waterfront and maritime businesses, including aquaculture farmers. -30-
03.22.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the passage of the omnibus appropriations bill in the House that will fund the government through the remainder of fiscal year 2018: “Today’s vote means more funding to stem the opioid crisis, more jobs for the First District, and more critical resources to ensure our seniors and veterans get the services they need. No agreement is ever perfect, and it is infuriating that Republicans continue to block votes on the Dream Act and important gun violence prevention measures. However, this bill has a lot to offer for the First District and the State of Connecticut and I was proud to vote for it. “In particular, it includes critical investments in our national security, spearheaded by Congressman Courtney who serves on the Armed Services Committee and Congresswoman Rosa Delauro on the Appropriations Committee, that will help keep our country safe and bolster our manufacturing base both in the First District and throughout the state. These not only benefit the large manufacturers like Pratt and Whitney, Electric Boat, and Sikorsky, but also the hundreds of Connecticut suppliers who support these vital programs. Key investments in our national security for CT include: 90 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, 20 more than requested in the President’s budget 56 Black Hawk Helicopters, 8 more than requested 18 KC- 46 tankers, 4 more than requested Two Virginia Class submarines Three Littoral Combat Ships Fully funds advance procurement for Virginia-class and Ohio replacement submarines “In addition, this agreement included billions of additional dollars to fight the opioid epidemic, increase access to affordable child care, and support national service programs like AmeriCorps and VISTA. It also makes a critical investment in the Social Security Administration to help reduce their backlog and cut wait times for beneficiaries, and bolsters funding for the Veterans Affairs Administration. Finally, even though the House still must do much more to bring critical gun violence legislation to the floor, I was relieved that the omnibus includes clarification that the Dickey Amendment does not prohibit the CDC from awarding grants to study gun violence. In addition, the Fix NICS Act, authored by our own Sen. Chris Murphy along with Sen. John Cornyn, was included to incentivize states and federal agencies to share more records for the national database. This is a step forward, but more must be done to addressing the epidemic of gun violence in the United States,” said Larson. Some of the key investments that the Omnibus bill includes: $10 billion increase in infrastructure funding $7 billion increase in funding for the Veterans Affairs Administration $3 billion increase in funds to fight the opioid epidemic $3 billion increase in medical research at the National Institutes of Health $2.37 billion increase in Child Care and Development Block Grant $610 Million increase in Head Start $480 million increase in Social Security Administration funding (Rep. Larson along with other Democratic leaders on the Ways and Means Committee wrote to appropriators asking for this increase. View letter here $250 million increase in the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help low-income families and seniors heat their homes in the winter $34 million increase was given to keep the AmeriCorps, VISTA, Senior Corps among other national service programs which are so vital to the nearly 3,000 serving our communities. For every dollar invested in these programs, service members generate a 4-1 return to economic and social benefits. $59 million increase in Senior Nutrition Programs. ###
03.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – During today’s Ways and Means Committee Hearing on the United States trade policy agenda, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) asked U.S. Trade Ambassador Robert E. Lighthizer for clarity on the effects of the Trump Administration’s steel and aluminum tariffs on manufacturers in the First District. Click here to watch clip of Rep. Larson’s question and Amb. Lighthizer’s response “What is the timeline for exempting countries? And what type of alternative arrangements are you seeking from those countries? Do you plan on making these decisions on all the exemptions by the time the tariffs go into effect which… would be Friday. So, you can imagine the intensified concern that this creates about the large supply chain, not to mention of course the manufacturers themselves in general. I’m wondering if you might give us more clarity on that,” asked Larson during the hearing. Larson pointed that the First District is home to a large manufacturing base that is comprised of hundreds of small and medium sized manufacturers who make up the supply chain and are downstream users of steel and aluminum. One such supplier, Jarvis Airfoil in Portland, CT, manufactures fan, compressor and turbine blades and vanes for jet engines, and has expressed concerns about the effect the tariffs will have on their company. Larson pressed Ambassador Lighthizer to provide clarity on the timeline for when the tariffs will take effect and how the exemption process will work. Ambassador Lighthizer answered that the hope was to get these issue resolved by April. His full answer can be viewed here. ###
03.16.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Rules Committee Ranking Member Louise Slaughter (NY-25). “Congress and the country have lost a great leader, and I have lost a great friend. She was an invaluable member of our institution who could trace her lineage back to the American pioneer, Daniel Boone. She was a steadfast advocate for her constituents and women across the country. Her voice and leadership will be sorely missed in Congress. My deepest sympathies go out to her family, friends, staff and to anyone who had the opportunity to know this great woman,” said Larson.
03.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – During today’s Ways and Means Tax Subcommittee hearing Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) defended Social Security by pointing out it is insurance Americans pay for, not an entitlement, and highlighting the need to expand the program. “As members of today’s panel pointed out, if we make no improvements, come 2034, Social Security will not be able to make benefit payments in full. The other side of the aisle needs to get their heads out of the sand and work on a solutions rather than cutting benefits and raising the retirement age on beneficiaries so the majority can pay for their enormous tax cuts. These aren’t solutions for Americans - these are sentences. At a time when so many older Americans are under water for so many reasons, not the least are working women who are retiring into poverty; we find the Committee that can correct it sitting silent. “Social Security is not an entitlement, it is the insurance that Americans pay for through the Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA) with every paycheck. It is exactly what it says, an insurance contribution that we pay into. My bill, the Social Security 2100 Act, would enhance the program, give current beneficiaries a benefit bump, and make the program solvent beyond the 75 year window. We need to come together and work on solutions, not cuts,” said Larson. Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act, which would expand and enhance the program and make it solvent beyond 2100. It has the support of over 170 cosponsors. Go to 3:36 to watch Larson’s remarks. ###
03.14.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) commends today’s announcement that Infosys will establish a technology and innovation hub in Hartford. This move will create 1,000 jobs by 2022. “I would like to welcome Infosys to the city of Hartford. This is great news for both the city and Connecticut. The Hartford region has many valuable assets from our ideal location, to our leading businesses, to our high caliber talent pool. I’m looking forward to Infosys adding to our region's economy and taking advantage of Connecticut’s skilled workforce,” said Larson. ###
03.09.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding the announcement that Cigna will acquire Express Scripts. “David Cordani is a thought leader in the industry with a reputation for delivering on innovation. We are fortunate that Connecticut remains at the center of the health care industry, and it is heartening to hear that not only will the combined company continue to be headquartered in Bloomfield but that a significant investment will be made in the local community through their charitable foundation following completion of the deal. The company and its employees are valuable members of our community, Cigna’s continued commitment to the state of Connecticut and its workers is good news for their employees and good news for our state,” said Larson.
03.08.2018	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) applauds the announcement that East Hartford native, Vice Admiral Karl L. Schultz, has been nominated to be the 26th Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard by President Trump. Schultz was a student at George J. Penney High School in East Hartford when Larson taught history there. Schultz’s late-father Leo was also a teacher in East Hartford. “President Trump could not have nominated a better person to be the next Commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard, I fully applaud this nomination,” said Larson. “I have known Vice Admiral Schultz since he was in high school, and it has been wonderful watching his career progress from his days at the Coast Guard Academy to today. I know his mother Elisabeth is very proud of him, just as his late-father, a fellow East Hartford teacher, Leo would be. Vice Admiral Schultz has courageously served our nation with over 35 years in the Coast Guard. He has been decorated with the Defense Superior Service Medal, four Legions of Merit, four Meritorious Service Medals, three Coast Guard Commendation medals, two Coast Guard Achievement Medals, and various other personal and unit awards. I know he will continue to serve our nation well in his new position.” ###
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, three Ranking Members from the Ways and Means Committee sent a letter to the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Chairman Tom Cole (R-OK) and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), requesting the Committee provide the Social Security Administration (SSA) with at least an additional $560 million in FY 2018 over total FY 2017 funding. In their letter, Ways and Means Ranking Members Richard Neal (D-MA), Rep. John Larson (D-CT), and Rep. Danny K. Davis (D-IL) said the funds should be used to reduce hearing backlogs, wait times, and delays throughout SSA. The members point out that SSA’s operating budget has fallen by 11 percent since 2010, after adjustment for inflation, while the number of beneficiaries has risen by 15 percent. Because of these cuts, disability waiting times have skyrocketed to unprecedented levels; Americans who call Social Security’s national 800-number to resolve a problem or find out information are unable to get through; and 4 million beneficiaries are caught in a “hidden backlog” at SSA’s payment centers. Full text of the letter is available HERE. ###
03.01.2018	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Connecticut State Senator Ted Kennedy Jr. announced that he won't be seeking re-election. "The Connecticut General Assembly and the people of Connecticut will be losing a great legislator after this year. Senator Kennedy has been a steadfast advocate for his constituents and Connecticut. I applaud his decision of focusing on fighting for people with disabilities and thank him for his service to our state," said Larson.
02.23.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Bob Forrester (President and CEO, Newman’s Own Foundation and Co-chairman of Newman’s Own, Inc.) and Eliot Russman (President, CEO, and Executive Director, Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation) at the Fidelco headquarters in Bloomfield to discuss the recent passing of his bill, the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, into law and its positive impact for the future of companies like Newman’s Own that donate 100 percent of their profits to charitable organizations, like the Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation that serve the blind and blind veterans. Larson was named a “Newmanitarian” by Newman’s Own during the event. “I want to thank Bob and Eliot for their passion and dedication to helping others through their organizations. It is the work of companies like Newman’s Own and organizations like Fidelco Guide Dogs that strengthen our communities. Bob and I first began our work together in 2009 and when it became clear that it would take a legislative fix, I worked with my Republican colleague, Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), to introduce the Philanthropic Enterprise Act in 2012. We are proud that it has finally become law. This goes to show what can be achieved when both parties find common ground and get something done for those who are doing so much to help others. I believe that this legislation will open doors for other companies that wish to give more, but have been unnecessarily burdened by the punitive tax issue that my bill has now fixed,” said Larson. “As I began my efforts in Congress, my very first meeting was with Congressman Larson on March 25, 2009. Without hesitation he said he would do everything within his power to save Newman’s Own from being broken up, since it was important for Connecticut and good public policy in general,” said Robert Forrester, President and CEO of Newman’s Own Foundation and Co-chairman of Newman’s Own, Inc. “Since that time Congressman Larson has been indispensable to our efforts to pass the Philanthropic Enterprise Act. He relentlessly fought for this legislation that allows Newman’s Own to continue its philanthropic mission in its current structure, as our founder Paul Newman intended. On behalf of all businesses that donate 100% to charity, I would like to thank Congressman Larson for making it possible to continue our work without the lingering threat of punitive taxes.” “Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation is dedicated to the limitless potential of its clients; men and women who are blind and who thrive with their guide dogs in a world that presumes the ability of everyone to see,” said Eliot Russman, President and CEO of Fidelco Guide Dogs. “Our success creating these dynamic, life-enhancing partnerships would not be possible without our dedicated staff and volunteers, and passionate supporters like Newman’s Own Foundation and Congressman John Larson leading the way.” The Philanthropic Enterprise Act was recently passed as a part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 and was signed into law. This was a terrific win for Connecticut, the country, companies like Newman’s Own, and the charitable organizations that benefit from philanthropic enterprises. For several years, Congressman Larson led the effort in the House, along with his colleague Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), to pass legislation to provide a small technical fix in the tax code to support, rather than stand as a barrier to, socially-responsible companies like Newman’s Own and the dozens of other philanthropic businesses they have inspired. ###
02.23.2018	[WASHINGTON, DC] – Connecticut’s congressional delegation today urged Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt to grant a 2016 petition filed by the State of Connecticut to provide relief from trans-border air pollution caused by a Pennsylvania power plant. U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) wrote to Pruitt on the morning of a public EPA hearing to consider Connecticut’s Section 126 petition, urging him to approve the petition to provide the state with relief and an enforceable solution to address downwind air pollution from Brunner Island Steam Electric Station, a coal-fired power plant in York Haven, Pennsylvania. “Connecticut has long been adversely impacted by trans-border air pollution, often directly causing our state to exceed EPA ozone and other pollutant limits – the very type of pollution emitted by Brunner Island Station,” wrote the delegation. “Air pollution does not respect state lines nor the health and economic consequences that come along with it.” Polluted air carried from Brunner Island Station downwind into Connecticut contributes to serious regional public health risks. Connecticut filed the petition with the EPA requesting enforcement of the Clean Air Act in June 2016. Under the plain language of Section 126, EPA is required to respond to a petition within 60 days. The full text of the delegation’s letter to Pruitt is available for download here, and copied below. Dear Administrator Pruitt: We strongly urge the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to withdraw its proposed denial and instead grant Connecticut’s petition under Section 126 of the Clean Air Act regarding the Brunner Island Steam Electric Station and expeditiously provide Connecticut with long sought after relief from dirty, downwind air pollution. Connecticut has long been adversely impacted by trans-border air pollution, often directly causing our state to exceed EPA ozone and other pollutant limits – the very type of pollution emitted by Brunner Island Station. Congress recognized the need for the EPA to step in and address pollution sources in one state that adversely impact another. Because a harmed state has no authority to regulate pollution sources located in another jurisdiction, under the Clean Air Act, Congress provided the EPA with the critical statutory duty to address trans-border pollution. Timely, effective EPA action is required in order for the agency to appropriately carry out this important responsibility. As you know, the Clean Air Act requires EPA to set national ambient air quality standards to protect public health and welfare. In cases where a large stationary source, or group of such sources, emits air pollution significantly contributing to air quality problems in another downwind state, Section 126 of the Clean Air Act permits the downwind state to petition EPA to require that the original out-of-state source or group of sources comply with emission controls or cease operations. In June 2016, Connecticut filed a petition concerning pollution emitted by the Brunner Island Steam Electric Station, a coal-fired power plant that produces cheap, dirty power in York Haven, Pennsylvania. The prevailing winds from Brunner Island Station often bring harmful air pollution downwind into Connecticut, contributing to serious regional public health risks. Specifically, air pollution from Brunner Island Station has resulted in increased concentrations of ground-level ozone in Connecticut. EPA has linked ozone exposure to reduced lung function, increased asthma attacks, and even higher risk of premature death. The pollution load also adds economic costs for local businesses to compensate for the out-of-state contribution, and has fundamentally interfered with Connecticut’s ability to comply with the 2008 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Additionally, while EPA expects Brunner Island Station to only burn natural gas going forward, there is no legally enforceable requirement that prevents it from switching back to coal prior to the summer of 2023 –should a recent proposed consent decree take effect. Under the plain language of Section 126, EPA is required to respond to a petition within 60 days. It is unacceptable that EPA failed to respond to Connecticut’s petition until now—a clear violation of the time period intended by the U.S. Congress. It is equally unacceptable that at this late date, EPA now proposes to deny the petition without providing an enforceable remedy to address Connecticut’s air pollution problem. Air pollution does not respect state lines nor the health and economic consequences that come along with it. As such, we urge you to immediately provide Connecticut with relief by approving the Section 126 petition, and requiring the Brunner Island Station to eliminate its harmful emissions contributing to ozone transported into Connecticut. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
02.22.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after holding a press conference at the Hartford Fire House Engine 1/Ladder 6 on the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act. Larson authored the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act that was signed into law within the Bipartisan Budget Act. This legislation amended the US Flag Code to fix a longstanding oversight to permit the Governor of a state or territory (or the mayor of the District of Columbia) to order the American flag to be lowered to half-staff in the event a life of a public safety officer is tragically lost in the line of duty. “I was honored to have been joined by Hartford’s finest today. Whether they are responding to a terrorist attack, natural disaster, or traffic accident, our police, firefighters and emergency medical personnel (EMS) are always the first to answer the call and selflessly put their lives in the harm’s way to protect our communities and our nation. In the unfortunate times when the ultimate sacrifice is given, they deserve the respect of having our Nation's flag flown at half-staff. I am proud that we were finally able to amend the US Flag Code to honor the service and sacrifice of these local heroes and their families,” said Larson. “Hartford’s first responders represent the best of our City, and I’m grateful to Congressman Larson for getting the Hometown Heroes Act passed into law so that as a State and as a country we can honor all our first responders when tragedy strikes,” said Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin. “I hope Connecticut never has to use the authority this bill grants, but this change is long overdue. I also want to thank former Hartford Deputy Fire Chief Jim McLoughlin for his decades of advocacy on behalf of those who serve and his role in getting this legislation enacted.” “As first responders, we serve to save. Firefighters never know if it will be their last time to give their loved ones a hug and a kiss goodbye as they get ready to head to the firehouse and report for duty. In this indefinite self-less service, sacrifices are made. Sacrifices such as missing important events and memories with the family. And sacrifices such as giving your life to protect the life of a total stranger. That should be honored. And thanks to Congressman Larson and his leadership, in every city, in every town, from this point forward, that a firefighter gives their life in the line of duty, they can be immediately honored and recognized for what they are. And that is a hometown hero. On behalf of the national fire service, thank you very much Congressman Larson for your steadfast commitment to seeing this act signed into law and for being our champion,” said Hartford Fire Chief Reginald Freeman. “We are proud stand with Congressmen Larson as he announces the successful bipartisan effort he has led with the ‘Honoring Hometown Heroes Act’. This gesture demonstrates his and our State's commitment to our first responders and honors the selfless work they do every day. While we are honored and thankful to see this act successfully passed, we hope and pray that we never see it exercised on our flags,” said Deputy Hartford Police Chief Brian Foley. “I'm grateful to Congressman John Larson for continuing to see this through. I'm grateful to the United States Congress for keeping the language of the original bill which was then attached to continuation of government funding, funding of the military, and support for our people in Puerto Rico and Texas amongst many other acts,” said Jim McLoughlin, Fire Administrator/Emergency Management Director, Town of Coventry (former Deputy Fire Chief, Hartford Fire Department).
02.22.2018	Manchester, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognized Nathan Poulin and Brianna Trask with Certificates of Special Congressional Recognition for designing the winning app, Spectrum Adventure, for the First District’s 2017 Congressional App Challenge (CAC). Both are students at Howell Cheney Technical High School. Poulin is from South Windsor and Trask is from Manchester. “Nathan and Brianna’s app is a combination of art, technology, and education all in one. I offer them both a big congratulations for their efforts,” said Larson. “It is amazing to see such talent in our local students. Their app, Spectrum Adventure, is a testament to the vitality of ideas. Their design started from a single idea, it was then developed and improved upon by them both. I know that with the training they received from Howell Cheney Technical High School, both Nathan and Brianna have bright futures ahead. Certainly the skill and creativity they showed today will serve them in all their endeavors. A big thanks to their instructors, Ed Knoeckel (Department Head) and John Buxton (Instructor of Cheney Tech's Information System Technology Shop) and Principal Robert Sartoris, for providing the environment for students to learn, thrive, and be creative. Congratulations again to Nathan and Brianna on a job truly well done.” The CAC is an opportunity for local high school students in the First District to highlight their STEM skills and apply what they have learned in the classroom. Larson’s office received 20 app submissions from across the First District. 190 Congressional Districts across 42 states participated in the 2017 competition, with 4,100 students participating. 1,270 apps were designed nationwide. ###
02.21.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured the CREC Hurricane Relief Center and met with CREC officials who have been helping families who were displaced from Puerto Rico due to the devastation left by the storms. Larson supported the Bipartisan Budget Act, which included $89.3 billion in disaster relief funding, including aid for vital infrastructure recovery in Puerto Rico. Larson has been advocating for a stronger relief response to help Puerto Rico recover from the hurricanes last fall. “The Federal Government’s response in helping Puerto Rico recover has been slow and disappointing up until recently. We finally got a much-needed disaster relief package approved, but it is far from the estimated $90 billion needed to complete the recovery in Puerto Rico alone. Meeting with individuals and families who survived the hurricanes, only further cemented that need. There are still plenty of logistical hurdles and day-to-day struggles that these families continue to face on the island and in our state. I look forward to continuing to work with local organizations like CREC, SAMA, the Center for Latino Progress, Family Life Education, and the Hispanic Federation, and with local elected officials to find new ways to help the island and all those impacted by the storm recover,” said Larson. ###
02.21.2018	East Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after holding a press conference at the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) in East Hartford, CT highlighting the five-year extension of the fuel cell Investment Tax Credit in the recently enacted Bipartisan Budget Act. He was joined with the leaders of the fuel cell manufacturing community. As a co-founder of the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, Larson has long championed fuel cell technology and was a forceful advocate for extending the fuel cell Investment Tax Credit, having authored past legislation to extend the credit. “This is a huge win for the manufacturers and workforce that make Connecticut a world-leader in hydrogen and fuel cell technology. The reinstatement of the Investment Tax Credit will provide the industry with the certainty and the level playing field it needs to invest and grow. Fuel cells are a cutting edge energy technology that provides clean, reliable, efficient power that is manufactured right here in Connecticut. Fuel cells are used in all types of applications today from providing electricity to the grid, backup power, forklifts, and vehicles and this technology will continue to grow as we move to a clean energy future,” said Larson. “Connecticut’s economic growth will depend, to a large extent, on manufacturing and clean power technology,” said Elliot Ginsberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of CCAT. “This action enhances our state’s capacity to be a leader in the fuel cell industry.” Joel Rinebold, CCAT’s Director of Energy Initiative and board member of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association, pointed out that the Fuel Cell industry is one of state’s the most important energy manufacturing industries with research, advanced manufacturing, and global exports of clean and reliable energy technology. “Extension of the Investment Tax Credit for fuel cells provides equity and fairness with other clean energy technologies, confidence for project financing, and support for continued research and manufacturing in America,” Rinebold said. “We thank Congressman Larson for his direct leadership and diligence to extend the ITC for fuel cell technology, which keeps clean energy innovation alive and these American jobs in Connecticut.” “Congressman Larson has been an advocate for the fuel cell industry since he joined the House of Representatives nearly 20 years ago. Connecticut fuel cell manufacturers have him to thank for much of the progress we have made. The extension of the ITC puts fuel cells back on a level playing field with other clean energy technologies and we can’t thank him enough,” said David Giordano of Doosan Fuel Cell America. “Congressman Larson’s efforts to reinstate the Fuel Cell Investment Tax Credit demonstrates his recognition of the value and innovation of the fuel cell industry. The ITC furthers our mission to deliver clean, innovative and affordable fuel cell solutions for the supply, recovery and storage of energy, creating jobs in CT and creating a cleaner energy future," said Chip Bottone, President and Chief Executive Officer, FuelCell Energy, Inc. Watch Rep. Larson fight for fuel cells in the Ways and Means Committee here. ###
02.21.2018	[WASHINGTON, DC] – U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) wrote Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke expressing opposition to the proposed expansion of offshore oil and gas drilling that could devastate Connecticut’s economy and environment. Zinke announced in January that the Trump Administration would expand offshore oil and gas leasing to encompass about 90 percent of the United States’ coastal waters. Today’s letter was submitted as part of the Department of the Interior’s public comment period, which remains open through March 9. “Opening waters off the coast of Connecticut to drilling puts jobs, coastal communities, and our environment at risk, and is antithetical to Connecticut’s efforts to transition to a sustainable, clean energy future,” wrote the delegation. “The Atlantic Ocean is a precious public resource that is critical to Connecticut’s well-being and should belong to every American, rather than special interests. As such, we urge you to remove the Atlantic region from the National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2019-2024.” The delegation’s full letter to Zinke is available for download here, and copied below. Dear Secretary Zinke: We write to express our strong opposition to the Department of the Interior’s inclusion of the Atlantic region in the National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2019-2024. The health, abundant fish and wildlife, and clean water of the Atlantic Ocean and Long Island Sound are a part of Connecticut’s rich heritage and are vital to our states’ social and economic wellbeing. Opening waters off the coast of Connecticut to drilling puts jobs, coastal communities, and our environment at risk, and is antithetical to Connecticut’s efforts to transition to a sustainable, clean energy future. Connecticut’s economy relies heavily on the Atlantic Ocean for sustainable seafood, jobs, and recreation. In 2016, New England’s coastline generated 4.8 million jobs and $726.8 billion in economic output that would be jeopardized by this program. Specifically, Connecticut’s seafood industry alone has accounted for nearly 3,000 jobs in recent years. While Connecticut may not be the first state that comes to mind when considering offshore drilling, opening the region up to offshore drilling is dirty, dangerous, and destructive. It would not only threaten the health of the Atlantic Ocean and its fragile marine environments, but also the livelihoods of small businesses and commercial fishermen that depend on a clean ocean. Given that oil spills don’t recognize state boundaries, any spill would be detrimental to the entire region—this risk is simply unacceptable. As we have seen in the case of BP’s Deepwater Horizon in 2010 when an oil rig exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, lives were lost, and the ecological and economic consequences continue to this day, while few have been held accountable and adequate safety reforms have yet to be put in place. An oil spill disaster of this magnitude in the Atlantic Ocean could coat 1,300 miles of coastline—this is equivalent to impacting communities all the way from Savannah, Georgia to Boston, Massachusetts. This giveaway to the fossil fuel industry makes 90 percent of the U.S. outer continental shelf available to drilling, and would open the Atlantic region to its first offshore oil and gas lease in 30 years. This move is in direct contrast with Connecticut’s efforts to establish a clean energy future, and would create a binding relationship and reliance on unsustainable fossil fuel development for generations to come. We believe that we should focus on investing in clean, renewable energy that will protect and preserve our nation’s natural resources, including our oceans, and the communities that rely on them. The Atlantic Ocean is a precious public resource that is critical to Connecticut’s well-being and should belong to every American, rather than special interests. As such, we urge you to remove the Atlantic region from the National Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program for 2019-2024. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
02.19.2018	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the Charter Oak Health Center to celebrate the enactment of several bipartisan health care funding initiatives that will benefit Connecticut. “I am proud of the efforts that were made in Congress to address funding issues for critical health care programs. The Bipartisan Budget Act included a two-year extension of community health center funding, a 10-year reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP or HUSKY B) when combined with the last Continuing Resolution, and $6 billion in funding to combat the opioid epidemic. This funding is vital to community health centers like Charter Oak, who provide invaluable services to their local communities and are on the front lines protecting our most vulnerable individuals and families,” said Larson. “I am grateful for Rep. Larson and members of Congress that addressed the Health Care fiscal cliff by passing a bipartisan budget which included funding for community health centers. As a result, Charter Oak Health Center was able to avoid laying off 40 workers and now we can focus on providing essential health services to the Hartford community,” said Nichelle Mullins, President & CEO, Charter Oak Health Center. "This long-term extension of CHIP alleviates stress for families, allows providers to engage in long-term planning to better serve their communities, and allows the state to maintain our HUSKY programs,” said Karen Siegel, Health Policy Fellow, Connecticut Voices for Children. ###
02.15.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) gave the following remarks in the Ways and Means Committee hearing with Secretary Steve Mnuchin concerning the unfair double taxation that Connecticut residents are facing due to new limitations on deducting state and local taxes. Connecticut already sends more to the federal government in taxes paid than it receives in federal benefits. “The so-called Republican tax reform is simply unfair. The 750,000 people who make itemized deductions while filing end up supplementing everyone else’s tax cuts and Connecticut is one of those states that has been burdened by this inequality. I hope we can work to a correct and amend this travesty that Connecticut residents are facing,” said Larson. Click here to watch Larson’s remarks ###
02.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) responded to the tragic school shooting in Parkland, FL, in a Ways and Means Committee Hearing with Secretary Mnuchin. Watch Larson’s remarks here. “We’re long overdue in the Congress to stop, as important as it is to express our condolences, what’s more important is that we vote and we act. Secretary Mnuchin you’re right, this not in your province, but it is exclusively in the province of the United States Congress. Hailing from Connecticut and experiencing Sandy Hook and the disasters that just keep on coming. When they come for one of us and we do nothing, who’s next? When will we stand up and all is required is that we do our Constitutional responsibility and vote. Otherwise we are all complicit in what happens increasingly and with devastating impact on our children. What are we as a body or an institution, if we’re not going to stand up for our children? And if you disagree with universal background checks, fine, at least vote. At least let people know where you stand on this issue. Families, victims, the country deserves it. You’re good people, we’re a great nation. The nation deserves for this Congress to act. Mr. Secretary, I do know that you can carry that message back to the President, and I do believe that this President can make a dramatic difference by calling upon this Congress to act on a multitude of areas. Not the least of which is this is this tragic issue we face,” said Larson. ###
02.12.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) condemned the proposed cuts in the Trump Administration’s proposed budget. “The Trump Administration budget proposal is paid for on the backs of seniors and America’s most vulnerable. The proposed cut to Medicare is just one glaring example of these types of cuts. Medicare is not an entitlement, it is insurance that Americans have paid for, and a lifeline for thousands of seniors and other beneficiaries. Additionally, the cuts made to Medicaid, disability benefits, SNAP, and many other essential safety net programs will only hurt our most vulnerable fellow Americans. We should be working to bolster programs like Medicare and Medicaid, and stabilizing the insurance markets. That’s why I introduced the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act with Reps. Joe Courtney and Brian Higgins, which would give Americans (ages 50-64) the ability to buy-into Medicare as a quality, affordable coverage option. Furthermore, this bill would make targeted reforms focused on improving the quality and delivery of care, to the future to strengthen the long-term solvency of Medicare, and the health care system overall. “It is my hope that President Trump doesn’t repeat the Republican defense of giving tax cuts to the wealthy, and then saying we don’t have enough money for programs essential to every day Americans. I call upon the President and my colleagues in Congress to expand these programs, to invest in Americans, and to give them a hand-up,” said Larson. ###
02.12.2018	(Washington, DC) – U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Congressmen John Larson (CT-1) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) today wrote the Office of the Inspector General for the U.S. Department of the Interior seeking an investigation into Interior’s highly unusual decision to take no action regarding proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut. The letter follows reporting that raises serious concern about the role of money and lobbyists into Interior’s decision-making. “In the case of Interior’s decision to take no action regarding the proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut, ample evidence suggests that the Interior has failed to honor its legal trust responsibilities to the two Tribes,” the letter states. Full text of the letter is copied below and is available here. February 12, 2018 The Honorable Mary L. Kendall Deputy Inspector General Office of the Inspector General U.S. Department of the Interior 1849 C Street, Northwest Washington, D.C. 20240 Dear Ms. Kendall: We write to request your investigation into the decision of the U.S. Department of the Interior (Interior) to take no action regarding the proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut. This decision raises serious questions as to whether the Department of the Interior is properly carrying out its longstanding legal trust responsibilities regarding Native American Tribes. See generally, Seminole Nation v. United States 316 U.S. 286 (1942). The United States has unique legal obligations to Indian Tribes. These obligations are grounded in the United States Constitution, treaties, federal statutes, and Supreme Court decisions. In part, these obligations are derived from cessions of hundreds of millions of acres of tribal homelands to the United States. In return, the Federal Government promised to provide for the general welfare of reservation residents. The Department of the Interior’s mission is to foster the government-to-government relationship between the federal government and the federally recognized American Indian and Alaska Native Tribes—irrespective of economic considerations presented by parties with no immediate connection to Federal Government’s trust responsibilities. In the case of Interior’s decision to take no action regarding the proposed amendments to the Tribal-State agreements between the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes and the State of Connecticut, ample evidence suggests that the Interior has failed to honor its legal trust responsibilities to the two Tribes. A February 1, 2018 Politico article, entitled “Zinke’s Agency Held Up Indians’ Casino After MGM Lobbying,” outlines some of the factors that may have contributed to Interior’s highly unusual action. The Nevada-based MGM has a direct economic interest regarding Interior’s decision on the proposed amendments, as the casino that is the subject of the amendment could potentially compete with its newly constructed casino on the Connecticut-Massachusetts border. However, MGM has no connection to the legal trust responsibility Interior has to the Mohegan and Mashantucket Pequot Tribes. As such, the company’s activities should have had no bearing on the question before the Department or on its decision regarding the proposed amendments. Specifically, the Politico article raised issues of potential conflicts of interest and impartial decision making, noting that the Secretary refused to even talk with members of the Connecticut delegation about these Connecticut-specific amendments while “MGM and its allies had direct access to Interior.” Further, the article noted that Acting Assistant Secretary Black’s letter, which articulated the Interior’s decision to take no action relative to the proposed amendments, copied Nevada’s Congressman Amodei and U.S. Senator Heller, but not the Connecticut congressional delegation. Moreover, Secretary Zinke and Associate Deputy Secretary Cason were scheduled to meet with White House Deputy Chief of Staff Rick Dearborn the day prior to the issuance of the Black letter. These actions suggest that something other than the legal obligations to Indian Tribes was motivating the decision of the Department of the Interior. In addition to this troubling catalog of events, Interior appears to have undermined the guidance of its own technical assistance letters to the Tribes, which the Tribes sought for the purposes of properly drafting the amendments to conform to Interior guidelines and regulations. Both Tribes received two technical assistance letters—one from the previous administration and one from the current administration—each confirming the opinion of Interior that the proposed amendments reflect the unique circumstances of the Tribes and the state. Further, the letters confirmed that the Tribes’ existing exclusivity agreement with the State of Connecticut would not be affected by a new commercial casino that would be jointly and exclusively owned by the Tribes. Despite these letters and the effort of the Tribes to consult with the Department with regard to the amendments, the Department rendered a highly unusual and highly unexpected decision to take no action and return the proposed amendments. Interior’s subversion of its own guidance—after multiple interventions by parties with no apparent connection to the Interior’s legal trust responsibilities to Indian Tribes—may suggest the department abrogated its duty to properly carry out its legal trust responsibilities regarding the two Tribes. All of these events raise significant concerns about the propriety of Interior’s process for reviewing the proposed amendments which are magnified by the fact that, according to the Politico article, the Department of the Interior has only once before returned a proposed amendment without its statutorily required approval or rejection, and it did so very quickly after receiving the proposal—citing specific information that was lacking and therefore making it incomplete. In contrast, the Department took the entire statutory maximum amount of days and returned the amendments without any explanation of what information was lacking. Together, these events may suggest that the Department did not act in accordance with its legal trust responsibilities to the two Tribes. We urge your investigation into this matter and look forward to your response. Sincerely, -30-
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that several bipartisan bills and initiatives that he sponsored or was among the lead Democratic sponsors were signed into law with the passage of the Bipartisan Budget Act. These bills were directly inspired by constituents in Connecticut. “Throughout my time in public service, I have always made an effort to work across the aisle. I have also made the effort to go out and meet with citizens and listen to them. I am proud to announce legislation that could have only been adopted bipartisanly, has been signed into law by the President. These legislative efforts were all inspired by constituents in Connecticut. “The Honoring Hometown Heroes Act came to be because of the efforts a local Hartford firefighter, Jim McLoughlin. Jim brought to my attention that the U.S. Flag Code did not allow for the lowering of the flag to half-mast if a first responder fell in the line of duty. I worked closely with Republicans, Democrats, and first responder groups to amend the flag code so we can honor our fallen hometown heroes. “The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act is something that I’ve worked closely on with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), the Connecticut-based Center for Medicare Advocacy, Team Gleason, and the ALS Association. Steve Gleason is a former NFL player, who is now a champion for individuals with ALS after being diagnosed with it in 2011. It has been an honor to work with his team and Connecticut resident Judy Stein, the Executive Director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy on this piece of legislation, to ensure that everyone who suffers from a degenerative disease will have continued access to speech generation devices that allows them to communicate with their loved ones. “Companies like Newman's Own and the work of Bob Forrester, who donate 100 percent of their proceeds to charities like the Hole in the Wall Camps for critically ill children and their families, should be celebrated for their philanthropy. That is why I worked to pass the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, which I introduced with Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), a small technical fix in the tax code that will support, rather than stand as a barrier to, socially-responsible companies like Newman’s Own and the dozens of other philanthropic businesses they have inspired. “The Wrongful Conviction Tax Relief Act, which I spearheaded with Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) received an extended deadline for wrongfully convicted individuals to apply for tax relief. The story of East Hartford resident, James Tillman, was the inspiration behind this legislation. Mr. Tillman served 18 years in prison for a crime he did not commit. He was exonerated in 2006 and was my guest at the State of Union in 2016. "Finally, Connecticut is home to the world's leading fuel cell manufacturers and I have heard from the businesses and workers in this industry about the importance of extending the investment tax credit. As a founder of the Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, I was proud to vote to extent the investment tax credit for five years, which will provide parity with other clean energy technologies and allow this industry to grow jobs in Connecticut." Larson is an original cosponsor of the Technologies for Energy Security Act (HR 1090), to extend the Section 48 investment tax credit for clean energy technologies, including fuel cells, for five years. ###
02.09.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement after voting for the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 which provides a tremendous boost for the state of Connecticut. "It was the calls from Connecticut community health centers, the voices of parents of children affected by the opioid crisis at public forums, and the plea of a local Hartford firefighter to amend the U.S. Flag Code to honor those first responders who fall in the line of duty. It is the voices of those who don’t care about politics – just solutions. It is a community health center in Hartford like Charter Oak Health Center or Community Health Services, Inc, who care for some of the most vulnerable, and just wanted to be able to continue their mission. It is also families I have met who have been devastated by the opioid epidemic who have cried out for more funding to prevent and treat a debilitating addiction to save a loved one. The thousands of Connecticut families who depend on the Children’s Health Insurance Program, but had been held hostage to a broken budget process. The fuel cell manufacturers who have been such a boon to the Connecticut economy, but whose vital tax credits have been kept in limbo. This budget provides solutions and certainty for all of them and many others. “I was also heartened that this legislation included numerous bipartisan initiatives, including several that I authored with Republican colleagues. One of which, the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, would allow companies like Newman's Own, who donate 100 percent of their proceeds to charities and the social good, to no longer face punitive taxes for the good work that they do. The budget bill also includes the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act – a bill I introduced in collaboration with two members of Republican leadership – Reps. Scalise and McMorris Rodgers. This bill, supported by groups like the Center for Medicare Advocacy, Team Gleason, and the ALS Association, ensures access to speech generating devices in Medicare for those with degenerative diseases like ALS or multiple sclerosis, no longer allowing those bravely fighting devastating diseases to be without a voice. Lastly, legislation that was the brainchild of a local Hartford firefighter, Jim McLoughlin, the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act will also be signed into law. This bill will clarify in the U.S. Flag Code that Governors can lower the American flag to half-mast in the event of the death of a first responder. “For the fuel cell industry in Connecticut, this budget provides an important tax credit that I have fought for many years, helping to promote cutting edge technologies in Connecticut, which is home to the world's leading fuel cell manufacturers. I have heard from the businesses and workers in the fuel cell industry about the importance of extending the investment tax credit. As a founder of the Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, I was proud to vote to extend the investment tax credit for five years, which will provide parity with other clean energy technologies and allow this industry to grow jobs in Connecticut. "In addition, after far too long, substantial disaster relief was finally provided to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. While there’s still more work to be done, I know from speaking with the Puerto Rican community in Hartford and across the First District whose families have been directly impacted, as well as Puerto Rican Resident Commissioner Jenniffer González how sorely this aid was needed. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that we continue to provide the relief that’s needed for our fellow American citizens in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. "Finally, Leader Pelosi's filibuster pushed Speaker Ryan to make a rare concession on the House floor, where he promised to work toward a solution for DREAMers. Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has already scheduled the Senate debate on proposals, as early as next week. Democrats will continue to lead on this issue and push for a solution in the House. "I am proud of the work that we have accomplished in this bill. By working bipartisanly, we were able to find solutions that will actually help people in Connecticut and the country. That's what our constituents sent us to Congress to do," said Larson. ###
02.09.2018	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following after the government shutdown the second time in a month, because of Senator Rand Paul holding up the vote in the Senate for a personal, ideological agenda. "This shutdown falls squarely on the shoulders of egotists like Senator Rand Paul. He threw a wrench in the bipartisan budget deal. We have a responsibility to govern, not play political games," said Larson. “I call on all my colleagues to do the responsible thing and re-open the government.” ###
02.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Committee Social Security Subcommittee, and Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (MA-01) released the following statements in response to reports of a framework being developed in the Senate that would force families to accept cuts to their Social Security benefits in exchange for receiving paid leave to care for a new child or a sick family member: “As the Ranking Democrat on the Social Security Subcommittee, I oppose any measure that reduces Social Security benefits – benefits which need to be increased, not decreased. On its face, it doesn’t make sense. We need to continue to sit down and find solutions for working families. I applaud Rosa DeLauro and fully support her bill, the FAMILY Act, and the efforts made by Ivanka Trump, as it is our goal to bring the these efforts together to work on solutions that will help working families," said Larson. “Yet again, Republicans are presenting the American people with a false choice: choose between a secure start for their families or a secure retirement. Economic security at all stages of life is fundamental to the American dream, yet the United States is one of just a small handful of countries that doesn’t have a national paid family leave law. Instead of expanding opportunity for families, Republicans are proposing a cut in Social Security benefits for Americans with new babies,” said Neal. As Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee, Larson has introduced a bill, the Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902), that would strengthen and expand Social Security for generations to come. More information about the legislation is available here. ###
02.07.2018	(As prepared for delivery) Thank you, Chairman Johnson, for holding this hearing. Americans know that Social Security is an insurance plan – not an entitlement. They have earned these benefits with every paycheck and know they can count on them. This is as true of veterans as for all other American workers. In fact, more veterans receive benefits from Social Security than receive Veterans disability or pension benefits. We must fight back against calls to make cuts to Social Security and, instead, come together in a bipartisan way to make common sense adjustments to strengthen America’s insurance plan and protect the benefits Americans’ have earned and rely on. Both the Chairman and I have offered comprehensive plans to address the long-term shortfall in the Social Security system, so that Americans can continue to count on these benefits whether they become disabled, or retire, or if they should die prematurely leaving their young children behind. While differing in our approaches, I hope we will be able to have a hearing out in Texas or elsewhere in the country to discuss our different approaches to Social Security right there with the American public. But today’s hearing is focused on veterans and how Social Security serves them. The Social Security Administration has taken many steps in recent years to ensure that our veterans receive the benefits they have earned. They conduct extensive outreach to veterans at hospitals and other facilities, to ensure that wounded warriors know about the benefits they have earned from Social Security. They flag all disability applications from wounded service members for expedited processing. Also, the Social Security Administration has worked out agreements with the Defense Department and the Department of Veterans Affairs to receive electronic medical evidence, to help speed evaluation of veterans’ applications. On average, disabled workers can wait over 600 days for a decision on an appeal, but disabled veterans get a hearing decision in less than half that time – about 8-10 months. However, veterans are not immune from the consequences of continued inadequate funding provided to SSA to operate the Social Security system. Since 2010, the number of beneficiaries has grown by nearly 15 percent as the baby boomers reach retirement age, but Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by 11 percent, after accounting for inflation. This has made it difficult, even impossible, for Social Security to serve our constituents promptly, when they need help the most. Veterans report difficulty reaching SSA on its 800-number when they have a question or a problem. If they try to visit a field office in person, the wait for service can be several hours. And even though they are moved to the head of the line if they need a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge, their benefits can be held up waiting for the decision to be written or the SSA payment center to get their checks started. We need to do better by our veterans, and by all Americans, so they can receive the benefits they deserve and that they have earned. ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. John Larson (CT-01), Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01) announced updated guidance from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) that extends the period of time that homeowners have to claim crumbling foundation related repairs on their federal taxes. Under the guidance issued today, homeowners will now have through the end of 2020 to make qualified repairs to their home and until April 2021 to claim those repairs on an amended 2017 federal tax return. Click here to read the updated revenue procedure “This is welcome news for homeowners in our districts,” the members said. “The additional three years afforded under this updated policy provides critical time for more homeowners impacted by crumbling foundations to make repairs and secure federal tax relief. Since enactment of the new tax law, we have been in regular contact with officials from the Treasury and IRS to explore ways to extend as much relief as possible to homeowners in spite of the changes made by the law. We are grateful for their attention to our concerns and the support they have provided today to homeowners struggling with the damage caused by crumbling foundations.” Background: Last November, the IRS issued Rev. Proc. 2017-60 to enact a “safe harbor” for the treatment of crumbling foundation-related repair costs as a “casualty loss” deduction from a taxpayer's taxable income under Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code. The new tax law, signed into law in December, temporarily limits the applicability of Section 165. Under the law, beginning in tax year 2018 only taxpayers who suffer damage related to a presidentially-declared Stafford Act disaster may deduct their property-casualty losses. This provision expires in 2025. A December 21 letter to the members from the IRS confirmed that homeowners who had already completed repairs to their home before the end of 2017 would be able to claim the costs on their federal tax returns for 2017, or any open prior year. Generally speaking, taxpayers have three years from the date they filed their original tax return to file Form 1040X to amend their return (and claim this deduction). The updated revenue procedure extends the “safe harbor” through the period that 2017 returns can be amended, expected to be the filing season in spring of 2021. Homeowners should consult with a qualified tax preparer to see if they qualify for this deduction and determine how to use it on their 2017 or future returns as allowed under today’s updated guidance. ###
02.07.2018	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after SpaceX successfully launched the largest rocket since the Saturn V rockets used during the Apollo missions to the moon, the Falcon Heavy Rocket. "Congratulations to Elon Musk and his whole team at SpaceX for their successful launch of the Falcon Heavy rocket. Musk and his team's bold ideas and innovation are what the nation needs when looking forward at all innovative forms of transportation, whether it be space travel, electric vehicles, a hyperloop, or tunnels. Brian Williams rather poignantly pointed out last night on his show, that our jet planes fly at the same speed as they did when Eisenhower was President and many of these recent train accidents could be preventable with technology. The United States' infrastructure received a D+ rating from the American Society of Civil Engineers. “Soon people will be traveling to South Korea for the Olympics, where they will see what modern airports and infrastructure could look like. We are long overdue for an investment in our infrastructure. We need to set the same goals as President Kennedy did when he said we will get a man to the moon in 10 years, and we did it in nine. As the country moves forward, we need to consult with companies like SpaceX and with innovators like Elon Musk to ensure that we are at the forefront of technology. Elon Musk needs to be recognized for paving the way for this type of investment. It wasn’t lost on many that he is an immigrant to this country," said Larson. ###
02.06.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in regards to the 25th anniversary of the national Family and Medical Leave Act signed into law by President Clinton in 1993. “After 25 years, the Family and Medical Leave Act remains a significant achievement for working families. Employees shouldn’t have to worry about losing their job because of an illness or to care for a newborn child or a sick loved one. We owe a debt of gratitude to Dr. Edward Zigler and Dr. Matia Finn-Stevenson of Yale’s Edward Zigler Center in Child Development and Social Policy for the immense strides we’ve made on family leave and childcare policy. I was fortunate enough to work closely with Dr. Zigler in the 1990s as a Senior Fellow at what was then called the Bush Center, and his dedicated work on these critical issues is truly inspiring. However we must continue to help working families; unpaid leave is not realistic for many working parents trying to make ends meet, and may not even be available as an option. In Connecticut, 75% of households with children have both parents working and more than half of mothers are their family’s top earners. I am heartened by Ivanka Trump’s efforts to form a coalition on a solution to paid leave. But there is more work to be done to ensure that all families are being supported across the nation. That is why I am a proud to be a cosponsor of Rosa DeLauro’s paid leave bill, the FAMILY Act,” said Larson. As the President Pro Tempore of the Connecticut State Senate, Congressman Larson helped pass the nation’s first family and medical leave legislation. On this important anniversary of the enactment of the federal Family and Medical Leave Act, Congressman Larson wanted to recognize the following individuals who were instrumental in Connecticut passing its law: Frederica Gray, Executive Director of CT’s Permanent Commission on the Status of Women. Patricia Russo, Permanent Commission on the Status of Women. CeeCee Woods, Research Director for CT Senate. ###
02.05.2018	Washington, D. C. - The House voted 396-0 today to pass H.R. 4547, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 – bipartisan legislation to strengthen and improve the representative payee program to better protect vulnerable Social Security beneficiaries who are unable to manage their own funds. Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT), lead Democratic sponsor of the bill, released the following statement: “I was proud to see the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018 (H.R. 4547) pass in the House of Representatives today. This bill’s success is attributed to the guidance of my good friend Congressman Sam Johnson, Chairman of the Social Security Subcommittee. Congressman Johnson has served his state of Texas and the country as a true American hero over the years and this bill is further testament to his statesmanship. This bill will better safeguard those most in need of protection, including nearly 4 million children, by strengthening the selection and monitoring of payees, while reducing administrative burdens on families caring for loved ones. We can always take measure of our country by how we treat our most vulnerable citizens – children, seniors and those with severe disabilities.” House Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX), original sponsor of the bill, released the following statement upon passage: “Today we took action to help ensure Social Security beneficiaries get the support they need from people they can trust. This legislation modernizes and strengthens the representative payee program to protect the best interests of beneficiaries. It strengthens oversight of the program, improves the representative payee selection process, and bolsters protections for the people who need help managing their benefits. It has been a pleasure working with Ranking Member Larson on this much-needed legislation. I applaud the House for passing H.R. 4547, and I look forward to the Senate taking the next step toward improving this program for millions of beneficiaries. Americans expect and deserve no less from the Social Security Administration.” CLICK HERE for the legislative text of the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2018. CLICK HERE to read the Ways and Means Committee's technical explanation outlining H.R. 4547, and CLICK HERE to read the letter that the Committee sent to the Social Security Administration afterwards. CLICK HERE to learn more about how this bipartisan bill helps millions of Americans. ###
02.05.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT), the Ranking Member for the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security and Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) along with 107 Democratic members of the House, sent a letter to President Donald Trump today, urging him to support higher funding for the Social Security Administration to reduce the unconscionable delays Americans are facing to receive the benefits they have earned. “Social Security is the cornerstone of economic security for American retirees, families who have lost a breadwinner, and workers who have suffered a career-ending injury or illness,” the lawmakers wrote. “Given the importance of Social Security, it is imperative that we increase the agency’s budget, to ensure that Americans can receive their earned benefits, on time and in full.” Over the past seven years, Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by more than 10 percent, after adjusting for inflation. At the same time, the number of individuals who are eligible for benefits has increased by nearly 15 percent as the baby boomer generation retires. Without proper funding, the skyrocketing wait times Americans are experiencing will only worsen. Delays in receiving earned disability benefits are already at unprecedented levels. Workers, many who are gravely ill or injured, must wait nearly two years for a decision on their disability appeal. Additionally, due to an insufficient budget, the SSA has been forced to close offices and reduce the hours of operation for those left open, and it has been unable to replace all of the employees who retire or leave for other jobs. The majority of callers to SSA’s 800-number give up without getting through – they either get a busy signal, or hang up after lengthy waits. President Trump pledged he would not cut Social Security or Medicare, yet in his first budget, he proposed more than $60 billion in cuts to Social Security benefits, and an inadequate amount for SSA’s operating expenses. Americans pay into Social Security during their working lives, and nearly 62 million Americans are currently receiving the benefits they have earned. For 6 out of 10 retirees, Social Security provides the majority of their income. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
02.01.2018	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding the memorandum authored by the majority on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). Larson has reviewed the memo and has also reviewed a response memo authored by the minority on the HPSCI that counters the misleading claims which was not voted to be released. “I am increasingly concerned about the undermining of our intelligence community and law enforcement agencies by the majority party. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was not allowed to testify to the HPSCI and the minority was not allowed to release their own counter memo. Recently, the FBI and DOJ have further warned of the memo’s inaccuracies and have asked that the claims in the memo be addressed directly to the intelligence community rather than being made public. “In a letter to Chairman Nunes, the Assistant Attorney General, Stephen E. Boyd of President Trump’s own Department of Justice warned of the implications and damaging consequences of releasing his memo, writing, ‘Given HPSCI’s important role in overseeing the nation’s intelligence community, you well understand the damaging impact that the release of classified material could have on our national security and our ability to share and receive sensitive information from friendly foreign governments.’ I urge the President to heed the calls of his intelligence community and not give credit to a memo that seeks to further a partisan agenda rather than get to the truth,” said Larson. ###
01.31.2018	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump gave his first State of the Union address. "What was encouraging in tonight's State of Union was when the President struck the right tenor by discussing bipartisan initiatives like rebuilding our infrastructure and addressing the opioid crisis. However, the question remains whether a tweet will change all that tomorrow and whether the majority governing party will take these initiatives and vote on them. The devil is in the details and we haven't seen them yet," said Larson. "What the people in First District want are solutions. We need to get past the rhetoric and down to brass tacks of voting, only then will we accomplish anything." ###
01.30.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement upon hearing of the loss of one of Hartford’s leaders, Carmen Rodriguez. “Carmen’s contribution to the city of Hartford and the state of Connecticut will leave a legacy for generations to come. As an advocate for social justice, she was a consummate fighter for the rights of those that were often marginalized in the community. Her fighting spirit undoubtedly inspired a future generation in the Hartford region especially those from the Puerto Rican community. I was honored to have worked along her side. Carmen’s life and work is an inspiration to us all and she will be missed, but I take comfort in the knowledge that her work will proceed her,” said Larson. ###
01.22.2018	Washington DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson issued the following statement on voting in favor of the Continuing Resolution to re-open the federal government and provide long-term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program. “I voted today to re-open the government and provide certainty to 17,000 children in Connecticut and their families who depend on the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). The reality is that the Republicans control the levers of the federal government – the House, the Senate, and the Executive branch. While some of my Republican colleagues, like Senators Susan Collins and Lindsey Graham, have worked on a bipartisan solution, the Republican leadership has failed the most basic of their responsibilities – to lead and to keep the federal government open. While CR’s are harmful in general, I voted for a short-term extension only through February 8th as a sign of good faith as I believe it is better to negotiate with the government open rather than closed. If the Republicans renege on their commitments, it will be clear to the American people they can neither govern nor keep their word with regards to funding community health centers, opioid funding, protecting young Americans who were brought to this country as children from being deported, and funding for our military and domestic programs,” said Larson. “This is the fourth CR that we have passed to keep the government open. Our military and federal agencies need a year-long budget in order to plan and to effectively execute the functions of government. My Republican colleagues have committed to coming to the table and working on solutions for the opioid epidemic, disaster relief funding, and a solution for the 700,000 DREAMers in the next three weeks. The Unites States government made a deal with these young people and despite the President’s edict to deport them if solutions are not made in Congress, it is now on the Republicans to work with us, as they have promised to govern responsibly. I will hold the Republicans accountable for their promises and so will the American people.” ###
01.20.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after the Republican-led House and Senate failed to reach an agreement on a budget, resulting in a government shutdown. "Republicans control the House, Senate, and the White House, yet they could not fulfill the most basic of function of governance – keeping the federal government open. We have gone from stopgap to stopgap without any meaningful attempt from Republicans to work bipartisanly on a long term budget agreement. In the process they’ve failed to adequately fund disaster relief and address the opioid crisis, left the immigration status of 700,000 Dreamers in limbo, and put the health care of millions of kids, including 17,000 in CT at risk. All of these issues that have the support of the majority of the American people and could pass overwhelmingly. The American people deserve better from Congress. The American people deserve to see where their elected officials stand on each of the issues separately, and deserve an up or down vote, because elections have consequences. I hope in the coming days we vote on CHIP and DACA on their own, on their merits, and we take the politics out," said Larson. ###
01.19.2018	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Federal Emergency Management Agency reversed the extension of transitional shelter assistance for displaced Puerto Rican families. Earlier in the week, FEMA had announced an extension until February 14th. They have now reversed that decision leaving families in limbo. "This reversal is cruel and leaves these families in limbo. The federal government's response to the hurricane destruction in Puerto Rico has been insufficient to say the least. These families have come to Hartford, looking for help, and instead of extending a helping hand, FEMA is throwing them out in the cold. I am working to find a solution for these families, and am committed to helping them in anyway that I can," said Larson. ###
01.18.2018	Today Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after voting against the stopgap Continuing Resolution. “Today was another missed opportunity to vote for the 700,000 DACA recipients waiting to know their current legal status. Furthermore, we missed the opportunity to address the opioid crisis in our country, the opportunity to adequately fund our community health centers, and the opportunity to properly provide disaster relief to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. While this bill contains funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the Republicans are playing politics with children’s health insurance by adding it to a package that neglects so many other crucial priorities. They ought to bring a clean CHIP bill to the floor right away. The American people sent us to Congress to work on solutions, but once again we are kicking the can down the road in a failure to govern. It’s our responsibility to vote on these issues and we should take them up one by one so the American people see where we stand,” said Larson. ###
01.16.2018	Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT) and Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) welcome the release of the Social Security Advisory Board’s (SSAB) new report, Improving Social Security’s Representative Payee Program. The report includes recommendations for addressing the challenges facing the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) representative payee program – a program Ranking Member Larson and Chairman Johnson have been working to improve and strengthen with their bipartisan legislation, the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017. Following the release of the SSAB report, Ranking Member Larson said: “I want to thank the Social Security Advisory Board for their hard work over the last months looking into the representative payee program, and their comprehensive new report confirming the need for the kinds of improvements included in H.R. 4547. It has been a pleasure working with my friend Chairman Johnson and Social Security advocacy groups on this essential bill. I look forward to enacting this bipartisan legislation so we can better protect the most vulnerable Social Security beneficiaries.” Chairman Johnson added: “The Social Security Advisory Board’s new report shows why we need to make changes to Social Security’s representative payee program now. The report makes a number of commonsense recommendations to strengthen this program, many of which are included in the legislation I introduced with Ranking Member Larson last year. The report also makes clear that there are things Social Security can – and should – do on its own to ensure the representative payee program is working the way it should. “We all must continue to work together to make much-needed changes to this important program. The American people want, need, and deserve no less.” Background: The SSA’s representative payee program helps approximately 8 million Social Security beneficiaries manage their benefits when they are unable to do so themselves (for example, children, or seniors with dementia). Nonpartisan government watchdogs and stakeholders have raised serious concerns about how the SSA administers the representative payee program. In 2017, the Committee held a two-part hearing series examining this program. Following the hearing series, Ranking Member Larson and Chairman Johnson introduced the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017 (H.R. 4547) to improve and strengthen the representative payee program. The Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017: Strengthens oversight by increasing the number of performance reviews of payees, requiring additional types of reviews, and improving the effectiveness of the reviews by requiring the Protection and Advocacy system of each state to conduct the reviews, on behalf of the SSA. Reduces the burden on families by eliminating the requirement to file an annual payee accounting form for parents who live with their children and for spouses. Enhances personal control by allowing beneficiaries to designate their preferred payee in advance of actually needing one; and ensures improved selection of payees by requiring the SSA to assess the appropriateness of the preference list used to select payees. Improves beneficiary protections by increasing information sharing between the SSA and child welfare agencies, and by directing the SSA to study how better to coordinate with Adult Protective Services agencies and with state guardianship courts. Limits overpayment liability for children in the child welfare system. Ensures that no beneficiary has a barred payee by codifying the ban on individuals with certain criminal convictions from serving as payees and prohibiting individuals who have payees from serving as payees for others. The Social Security Advisory Board is a bipartisan, independent federal government agency established in 1994 to advise the President, the Congress, and the Commissioner of Social Security on matters of policy and administration of the Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance and the Supplemental Security Income programs. The Board has seven seats, with three appointed by the President, two by the Senate, and two by the House of Representatives. CLICK HERE for a fact sheet on the bill. CLICK HERE to read letters of support for the bill. CLICK HERE to read about the Committee’s hearing on how the Social Security Administration determines who needs help. CLICK HERE to read about the Committee’s hearing on how the Social Security Administration determines who provides help. ###
01.12.2018	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after it was reported that CVS will keep Aetna’s operations in Hartford upon their completion of the acquisition of the company, and foresee Hartford as being a center of excellence for their insurance business. “Aetna’s home has been in Hartford since 1853. I fully commend CVS for making the decision to keep Aetna in the great city of Hartford. Hartford is the insurance capital of the world, and it will continue its long legacy for years to come,” said Larson. ###
01.11.2018	The members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today are applauding the release of $45.8 million in federal grants that will be used towards helping the State of Connecticut reach its goal of ending homelessness. The grants were received through the U.S. Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Continuum of Care initiative, which provides critically needed support to local programs on the frontlines that serve individuals and families experiencing homelessness. “We’ve set high goals to eliminate homelessness, and we’ve been seeing real results,” Governor Malloy said. “Ensuring and delivering the availability of housing for everyone is critical to building stronger, safer communities where families thrive and businesses grow. Over the last several years, our state has built solid partnerships with local, state, and federal organizations to strengthen our housing needs in order to ensure that when someone becomes homeless, it is brief and nonrecurring. I want to thank everyone who has been involved in these efforts – their work is truly having a positive impact on peoples’ lives.” “While Connecticut has made significant progress towards reducing homelessness, there are still families and children who do not know where they will sleep tonight. That is unacceptable,” the members of the delegation said in a joint statement. “This funding will allow us to continue to work collaboratively on federal, state and local levels to ensure access to safe, stable and affordable housing. We are proud that Connecticut is on the forefront of the fight to end homelessness, and we will continue to support critical federal grant programs that changes lives and make our state a stronger and better place.” “Connecticut continues to make historic progress in the areas of preventing and ending homelessness,” Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner Evonne Klein said. “I am pleased that once again, the state is receiving several grants to advance this work. We have developed a proven system to quickly identify homeless families and individuals and rapidly house them. I am proud that our state has been recognized by the federal government, increasing our allocation of Continuum of Care grants by well over $2 million this year. It is because of Governor Malloy’s leadership, Connecticut is a nationally recognized leader in preventing and ending homelessness.” “Our agency is grateful to be awarded this continued and new funding from HUD,” Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services Commissioner Miriam Delphin-Rittmon said. “This funding provides permanent supportive housing opportunities for Connecticut’s most vulnerable populations, those persons experiencing homelessness who are also diagnosed with a behavioral health disorder. Connecticut’s state and local partners will use this funding to continue our collective work towards ending homelessness through the state.” Included in the awards are brand new allocations totaling almost $2.7 million dollars that will allow Connecticut to build upon its existing infrastructure dedicated to ending homelessness. This is the fourth year in a row that Connecticut has received new allocations under this funding round. The awards from prior years allowed the state to add approximately 400 new units of permanent supportive housing dedicated towards ending chronic homelessness. Additionally, Connecticut expects to add approximately 100 new units of permanent supportive housing with the assistance of this year’s grants. These new allocations will allow the state to expand its existing resources, bringing Connecticut one step closer to effectively ending homelessness altogether. Since 2011, DOH and the Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, have funded more than 22,000 units of housing, the vast majority of which are affordable to persons of low and moderate income. In total, this represents a state investment of more than $1 billion, which is leveraged by more than $2.5 billion from the private sector and other sources. Connecticut continues to experience a rapid decline in homelessness as a result of the investments made under the Malloy administration, in tandem with efforts to coordinate and target resources at the community level. As a result, Connecticut’s work has earned national recognition. In August 2015, the federal government certified Connecticut as the first state in the nation to have effectively ended chronic homelessness among veterans; in February 2016, Connecticut became one of only two states to have ended all veteran homelessness; and in January 2017, the Governor announcedthat Connecticut had matched all chronically homeless persons to housing.
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Rep. John Larson (CT-01) and Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) released a letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) responding to their questions about the impact of the new tax law on crumbling foundations tax relief announced late in 2017. The letter states that tax relief remains available for some homeowners with crumbling foundations and the potential for further transitional relief for those impacted by the new tax law. Click here to read the letter sent to Larson and Courtney from the IRS “As the IRS confirmed in its letter, qualified taxpayers who paid to repair damage to their homes in 2017 or in prior open tax years will still able to deduct the cost of those repairs as a casualty loss on their 2017 returns. This is welcome confirmation for those homeowners who have already completed repair work on their homes and will soon begin to prepare their taxes,” said Larson and Courtney. “However, given that the revenue procedure was released at the end of November, many homeowners did not have time to make the necessary repairs by the time the new tax law was signed and 2017 ended. Many homeowners are only now discovering the extent to which their home foundations have been damaged, or have yet to make plans to repair their homes. “As noted in the IRS letter and in follow-up conversations that our offices have had with IRS and Treasury officials, there may be additional ‘transitional relief’ that could help other homeowners in 2018 and beyond. We will continue to work closely with the IRS and the Treasury to explore options to assist homeowners in the weeks ahead, and do all we can to ensure that as many homeowners as possible can seek tax relief in light of the new tax law.” Background: Last November, the IRS issued Rev. Proc. 2017-60 to allow for the treatment of crumbling foundation-related repair costs as a “casualty loss” deduction from a taxpayer's taxable income under Section 165 of the Internal Revenue Code. The new tax law, signed into law in December, temporarily limits the applicability of Section 165. Under the law, beginning in tax year 2018 only taxpayers who suffer damage related to a presidentially-declared Stafford Act disaster may deduct their property-casualty losses. This provision expires in 2025. The December 21 letter from the IRS confirms that homeowners who have already completed repairs to their home would be able to claim the costs on their federal tax returns for 2017, or any open prior year. Reps. Larson, Courtney, continue to work with the IRS and Treasury to determine prospective eligibility. Homeowners should consult with a qualified tax preparer to see if they qualify for this deduction and determine how to use it on their 2017 or open year amended returns. ###
01.09.2018	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after it was announced that Bank of America had appointed Joseph Gianni as President of the Hartford market. Gianni is a resident of West Hartford. “Joe Gianni is someone who has come up through the ranks, and understands the State and Hartford area. He has a pro-growth and a pro-Connecticut outlook and is an outstanding member of the community. I applaud Bank of America for this decision, congratulate Joe, and wish him the best in his new position,” said Larson. ###
01.02.2018	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Transportation Committee Chairman Rep. Bill Shuster (PA-09) announced that he will not be seeking reelection. “Like his father before him, Bill Shuster has been an incredible asset to this institution. He has always been one to reach out and work across the aisle. I applaud him for his choice to focus on a much-needed infrastructure bill for the nation. My only hope is that he achieves this lasting legacy. Like his father, he has been a great legislator and a good friend. I wish him all the success,” said Larson. ###
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today the House passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the government until January 19th in a partisan vote. The Republican package kicked the can down the road on critical priorities for the American people by failing to address the caps on domestic and defense spending, neglecting a needed long-term extension for the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and funding for community health centers, leaving out a bipartisan package to stabilize the individual health insurance market, providing no funding for the opioid crisis, and ignoring the Dreamers before adjourning for the year. Rep. Larson voted against the Continuing Resolution. “In the last month, my Republican colleagues have found the time to give the wealthy and corporations tax cuts by blowing a 1.5 trillion dollar hole in the deficit. How do they plan on paying for those tax cuts? By gutting essential programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security,” said Larson. “Meanwhile, in Connecticut, notices have already gone out notifying families of the potential termination of their child’s health care coverage under the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). My constituents are also facing the impending closure of the community health centers where they receive affordable medical treatment. In addition, the DREAMers in my district are left with unnecessary anxiety as the Republicans have left their status in limbo. “The Republicans are also continuing to make a mess of American’s health care system, by not funding CSR payments and not bringing up bipartisan legislation to stabilize our health care system. “When Congress reconvenes in January, I implore my Republican colleagues to reach out across the aisle and work with Democrats on ways to help the American people rather than just kicking the can down the road.” I will continue to fight for constructive solutions such as advancing legislation to bolster Social Security, invest in the nation’s infrastructure, and expand access to affordable healthcare,” said Larson.
12.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after voting against the Disaster Supplemental Spending that passed the House today. “Yesterday marked the third month since Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, causing widespread destruction. In the aftermath, the lagging response to restore access to basic needs contributed to a troubling spike in post-hurricane deaths, and nearly 35 percent of the island still lacks access to power. Just weeks earlier, Governor Ricardo Rossello requested $94 billion to rebuild the critical infrastructure, housing, schools and hospitals devastated by the storm. This effort will take serval years and Puerto Rico is unable to do it on its own.” “In addition, considering the recovery efforts in the US Virgin Islands, Florida, Texas and the wildfires that are still raging in California, it is clear that significantly more help is needed than what was brought up today. After already undercutting Puerto Rico’s economy in the GOP tax reform, this bill sends a wrong message to our fellow Americans in need. Congress needs to step-up to the plate and meet Puerto Rico at the point of its need. I will continue to press the congressional leaders to address the supplemental funding in more adequate means,” said Larson.
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House passed the conference report of the GOP Tax plan in a partisan vote. It is expected to pass the Senate, also by a partisan vote, before going to the President’s desk. The entire process for this legislation has been partisan, rushed, and behind closed doors. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement: Larson’s floor remarks prior to the vote can be found here “As we approach Christmas, this is the present the Republicans are giving to the wealthy and the corporations, leaving the elderly and the American people who need our help behind. This is a giveaway to the wealthiest among us and it will be paid for on the backs of the middle class in Connecticut, our seniors, and our state’s more most vulnerable. As an example, beginning next year, corporations will still be able to deduct State and Local Taxes, while individuals and families are capped at $10,000. Considering that 41 percent of Connecticut residents itemize and take this deduction – our state will be unfairly penalized. Additionally, the massive corporate tax cuts are made permanent, while the modest provisions intended to help individuals expire in 2025. As a result, more than half of the middle class will see a tax increase by 2026 while the very wealthy and large corporations will continue to reap the benefits of a lower tax rate. And it gets worse, because this plan will add $1.5 trillion to the deficit, which will trigger an automatic cut of $25 billion to Medicare next year. The Republicans’ ultimate end game is to further decimate essential safety net programs, like Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Medicare and Social Security are insurance programs that Americans have paid into their whole working careers and now they are on the chopping block thanks to this disastrous tax bill. “At the end of the day, this bill was about giving my Republican colleagues a political win after a series of failed attempts at repealing and replacing Obamacare. This was never about helping the American people. This tax cut makes the Grinch and Mr. Potter from It’s a Wonderful Life look humane. The gutting of the Medicare program to pay for tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires is both cruel and deceitful,” said Larson.
12.15.2017	Washington, D.C. - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the conference report of GOP Tax Plan was released. The text was completed on a Friday night in order to rush this bill to the floor for votes in both the House and Senate early next week: "Despite changes to the GOP tax plan, the heart of this bill remains cruel. It is still a bad deal for hard-working families in my home state of Connecticut. It targets states like ours that consistently pay more in federal taxes than it receives in services and asks every day Americans to pay more, in order to give tax cuts to the wealthy and corporations. The Republican plan still overwhelmingly provides permanent benefits for the wealthiest interests while phasing out any benefit that helps middle class families,” said Larson. “This is a bad bill, born of a bad process. This deeply unpopular bill is being rammed through both chambers, because the GOP needs a political win and to get to the next step of their plan: drastic cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Experts all over the country, including Connecticut CPAs and the CT Department of Revenue Services, have been warning Congress of the harm this bill will afflict since the very beginning. The Congressional Budget Office has confirmed that this bill will add trillions to the deficit, triggering automatic cuts to a variety of programs, including a $25 billion cut to Medicare next year. I will continue to oppose and fight this plan." Larson's previous statements can be found here. ###
12.14.2017	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) vote to roll back the 2015 Open Internet Order and prevent states from implementing their own regulations that could surpass the federal protections for broadband consumers. “In a time when access to broadband has become an essential part of our everyday lives, we should be looking for ways to improve access to an open internet for all instead of walking backwards”, said Larson. “I am deeply disappointed with the FCC’s decision to disregard the concerns of 83 percent of American people by proceeding with a vote to roll back these important rules. Not only is this action a step backwards for consumer protections, but it will not help spur an environment for innovation and growth. Congress should act quickly to ensure that net neutrality is preserved in order to provide fair and equal access to the Internet for all.” Yesterday, Congressman Larson, along with 117 colleagues, sent a letter urging the FCC Chairman Ajit Pai to delay the vote on the Restoring Internet Freedom Order. Read here.
12.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the five year anniversary of the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT. “On this day five years ago, 26 lives were senselessly cut short at Sandy Hook Elementary School. Our hearts still ache. My heart goes out to the friends and families of all the victims,” said Larson. “I’m also frustrated that nothing has been done. Since this tragic day, the House has still yet to hold a vote on common sense gun violence prevention legislation, like universal background checks. The King-Thompson Public Safety and Second Amendment Rights Protection Act is a bipartisan bill that upholds the Second Amendment, while strengthening background checks and fortifying state and federal record keeping in order to keep guns out of the hands of convicted criminals. Unfortunately, it doesn’t stand a chance to see the light of day until the Republicans stand up to the gun lobby and take a vote. In five years all Congress has done is offered its thoughts and prayers to the victims of gun violence. Inaction is no longer an option. The American people overwhelmingly support common sense gun safety legislation. The time for Congress to act is now.”
12.14.2017	Washington D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) During a Democratic Ways & Means hearing on the Republican tax plan yesterday, former Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisors under President Obama, Jason Furman, praised the Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902). The Social Security 2100 Act, authored by Ways & Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John B. Larson, was introduced earlier this year and currently has 163 cosponsors. Due to the 2010 Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) law, the nearly $1.5 trillion addition to the deficit from the GOP tax plan will lead to automatic cuts to certain government programs - including cuts to Medicare as soon as next year. GOP Leadership has stated that their next priority, after passing deficit-raising tax reform, will be 'entitlement reform', including huge cuts to social insurance programs like Medicare and Social Security, that working Americans have paid for with every paycheck. A summary of their exchange is below and linked here: Larson: So, when we find that in this provision that because of PAYGO rules that there will be an automatic cut, without a vote ever having to take place, in Medicare of $25 billion a year, I would ask our experts how would you try to rectify that and what is your sense whether this is a very specific goal of going after entitlements - and not passing infrastructure or other legislation that will put people back to work? Furman: I'd like to thank you for your Social Security legislation, which I think is one of the most thoughtful proposals on Social Security and our retirement security. The simplest thing is not to pass this bill or to have revenue increases that would turn off that automatic sequester to Medicare.
12.14.2017	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after concluding yesterday’s Democratic Ways and Means hearing on the current state of the Republican tax bill. “Yesterday my colleagues and I heard from expert witnesses on the Republican tax bill. This was the first and only hearing on the text of H.R. 1, the House GOP tax plan, and the public debate that we and the American public were denied before the House Republicans jammed their bill through committee and ultimately through both chambers of Congress. Not only were we provided expert testimony on the repercussions the bill will have on the American worker and the obscene tax cuts that corporations and the wealthy will receive from this tax bill, we also heard from every day Americans who described to us how they would be harmed by the tax plan. We heard from a graduate student on how H.R. 1 would make higher education an impossibility for middle class Americans, and a decorated combat veteran, who has devoted his life to helping his fellow vets get hired,” said Larson. “What is most galling about this bill - is that in order to cover the costs of the $1.5 trillion hole they will blow in the deficit, they will institute an immediate $25 billion cut in Medicare next year. I spoke on this heartless tactic they are using against our seniors and loved ones in order to provide tax cuts to corporations and our country’s wealthiest citizens. It is unconscionable.”
12.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called again for a reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), community health center funding, and other crucial public health priorities after voting NO on H.J. Res. 123, a short term continuing resolution. In addition to CHIP, the two-week stop-gap bill fails to address some of the nation’s most critical needs such as additional disaster funding for Puerto Rico & the US Virgin Islands, defense and domestic spending levels for Fiscal Year 2018, relief for DACA recipients, bipartisan legislation to stabilize health insurance markets, and funding to address the opioid epidemic. These issues all need be addressed immediately, but Congressional Republicans are yet again kicking the can down the road. “Instead of working to help families, and reauthorize CHIP in a timely, nonpartisan manner, Republicans have instead focused on giving tax cuts to the wealthy and corporations. 17,000 children in Connecticut alone depend on this and because of the Republican’s decision not to offer a long-term solution for CHIP, Connecticut will be forced to send out notifications to families warning them that this funding might not be available after the end of January,” said Larson. “This bill also fails to provide funding for community health centers that serve our most vulnerable constituents. I am proud to support a bill that would not only reauthorize CHIP and community health center funding, but also provide needed assistance to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands’ health care systems to help our fellow U.S. citizens still recovering from natural disasters. I will continue to demand that we fund these programs now, and work with my colleagues to find a solution.” For the past 20 years, CHIP has been funded on a bipartisan basis, this year the Republican majority missed the September 30th deadline to keep it funded. **** Larson is a cosponsor of H.R. 4541, a bill to: Reauthorize CHIP for five years. Reauthorize Community Health Centers and other important public health programs for two years (such as the National Health Service Corps, the Special Diabetes Program, and the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education Program). Cancel the Medicaid Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) cuts for five years without setting up deeper cuts later on. Take important steps to address the critical needs of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The bill provides for an $8 billion increase in Puerto Rico’s Medicaid spending cap over five years and an additional $275 million increase in the U.S. Virgin Islands’ cap over the same period. It also provides a 100 percent federal match for Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands for two years, streamlines and removes burden of enrollment for residents and evacuees, and reimburses state Medicaid programs for the cost of evacuees at 100 percent match for two years. Larson has also previously called to reauthorize CHIP, those statements can be found here and here. ###
12.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House voted on HR 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017, a bill that infringes upon the rights of states like Connecticut, by requiring them to honor other states’ concealed-permits – including the 12 states that do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) condemned the vote and released the following statement: “It is despicable that despite opposition by national law enforcement organizations, the House GOP is bringing up a bill that would undermine the common sense gun violence prevention laws enacted by states like Connecticut while refusing to bring universal background check legislation for a vote. This is a dangerous bill that would override states’ gun laws. What happened to the sanctity of states’ rights that my Republican colleagues adamantly profess? “We are only days away from the five year commemoration of the tragic massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary, and within the last few months we have witnessed two of the nation’s worst mass shootings ever recorded. 92 percent of gun owners, those who are proud NRA members, support the bipartisan King-Thompson legislation on universal background checks. By refusing to bring this bill up for a vote, Congress remains complicit in these tragedies. It's time for Congress to act on common sense legislation.” Currently, 12 states do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm. This legislation would impede on the remaining 38 states’ rights and allow individuals with out-of-state residency to carry a concealed firearm within their boundaries. These individuals may have never passed a background check nor received training to legally carry a concealed firearm. For instance, although domestic abusers are unable to purchase a firearm in Connecticut, this bill would allow an out-of-state individual with the same conviction to legally carry a concealed weapon in our state. This puts local law enforcement in unnecessary danger, leaving them to guess who the bad guy with a gun is, to who the good guy with a gun is. ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after Aetna CEO, Mark Bertolini said that he will step down and join the CVS Board of Directors, after Aetna merges with CVS in an interview with CNBC. “Mark Bertolini has been an innovator in his work at Aetna by demonstrating that patient-centered health care can produce better outcomes. His efforts to increase access, lower health care costs, and improve the quality of health care have been unparalleled in the industry. Since joining Aetna in 2003, he has been a true leader and a visionary. Mark has always sought to shift the paradigm of what experts believed possible about health and wellness. He is a national resource, and is one of the top thought-leaders on health care in the world,” said Larson. ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (D-CT) and Chairman Sam Johnson (R-TX) introduced the Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017 (H.R. 4547), bipartisan legislation to improve and strengthen the Social Security Administration’s (SSA) representative payee program. The SSA’s representative payee program helps approximately 8 million Social Security beneficiaries manage their benefits, if they are unable to do so themselves because they are children or have a condition that prevents them from handling their own benefits. In light of reports from nonpartisan government watchdogs and stakeholders raising serious concerns about how the SSA administers the program, the Committee held a two-part hearing series to examine the challenges facing the agency and identify solutions to help ensure representative payees are serving the best interests of Social Security beneficiaries. CLICK HERE to watch the hearing entitled “Part I: Examining the Social Security Administration’s Representative Payee Program: Who Needs Help,” and CLICK HERE to watch the hearing entitled “Part II: Examining the Social Security Administration’s Representative Payee Program: Who Provides Help.” Upon introducing the legislation, Ranking Member Larson said: “It was once said that the moral test of any government is how it treats its most vulnerable citizens – children, seniors, and those with severe disabilities. This bill is a statement from the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee that Congress is committed to protecting those beneficiaries, such as seniors, children, and disabled adults, who have representative payees. Under the leadership of Chairman Johnson, we have held a series of hearings on the representative payee program this year, bringing in experts to gain better insight over how the program works and where changes are needed. Today, we are proud to introduce this bill that will better safeguard those most in need of protection, including nearly 4 million children, by strengthening the selection and monitoring of payees, while reducing administrative burdens on families caring for loved ones.” Chairman Johnson said: “The Social Security Administration has a big responsibility to make sure Americans who need help managing their benefits get it. But the program doesn’t always work the way it should. Too often, we hear stories about representative payees who take advantage of those they are supposed to help. Ranking Member Larson and I worked together on this legislation in order to strengthen the representative payee program so that it better protects beneficiaries and reduces burdensome government paperwork that rarely provides any real value for families. Too many Americans are counting on the Social Security Administration to get this right.” Background: The Strengthening Protections for Social Security Beneficiaries Act of 2017: Strengthens oversight by increasing the number of performance reviews of payees, requiring additional types of reviews, and improving the effectiveness of the reviews by the requiring the Protection and Advocacy system of each state to conduct the reviews, on behalf of the Social Security Administration (SSA). Reduces the burden on families by eliminating the requirement to file an annual payee accounting form for parents who live with their children and for spouses. Enhances personal control by allowing beneficiaries to designate their preferred payee in advance of actually needing one; and ensures improved selection of payees by requiring the SSA to assess the appropriateness of the preference list used to select payees. Improves beneficiary protections by increasing information sharing between the SSA and child welfare agencies, and by directing the SSA to study how better to coordinate with Adult Protective Services agencies and with state guardianship courts. Limits overpayment liability for children in the child welfare system. Ensures that no beneficiary has a barred payee by codifying the ban on individuals with certain criminal convictions from serving as payees and prohibiting individuals who have payees from serving as payees for others. CLICK HERE for a fact sheet on the bill.CLICK HERE to read about the Committee’s hearing on how the Social Security Administration determines who needs help. CLICK HERE to read about the Committee’s hearing on how the Social Security Administration determines who provides help. ###
12.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Stanley Black & Decker announced today that they are planning on opening an Advanced Manufacturing Center of Excellence in Hartford. This Center of Excellence will be used to accelerate their global Industry 4.0 “smart factory” initiative and will be named Manufactory 4.0. It will eventually host 50 Industry 4.0 employees. Additionally, they will be launching an entrepreneurial incubator program, where 10 start-ups will participate in a 2 year program. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after this announcement: “This is great news for the City of Hartford. Stanley Black and Decker’s decision to locate their Advanced Manufacturing Center of Excellence in Hartford speaks volumes to their commitment to Connecticut, and to the strength of our Capitol City as a place to do business. Manufacturing is a part Connecticut’s DNA, and since its founding in 1843, Stanley Black and Decker has been at the forefront of state’s our manufacturing ecosystem. This continues that tradition as Connecticut remains at the cutting edge of the next generation of advance manufacturing. Stanley Black and Decker’s entrepreneurial incubator, that will give start-ups a hand up, will continue to fuel Connecticut’s role as a manufacturing hub. I applaud Stanley Black and Decker on their decision, and welcome them to the City of Hartford,” said Larson. ###
12.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the Republican tax plan in a partisan, 51-49 vote. “The Senate Republicans’ tax plan provides the wealthy and corporations with large tax cuts at the expense of the middle class, just to achieve a political win. This hastily written bill has been jammed through with little opportunity to be scrutinized by the American public that will be directly harmed by its provisions. According to multiple non-partisan analyses, it fails to create the levels of economic growth that Republicans have promised and would blow a $1 trillion hole in the deficit. The red ink from this bill will lead to the fulfillment of the Republican’s ultimate goal of cutting essential programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security. To make a bad thing worse, the Senate GOP decided to also go after the health care coverage of millions of Americans in their tax plan, as it will lead to 13 million people losing coverage and driving premiums up 10 percent year to year according to the Congressional Budget Office,” said Larson. “The Senate plan, like it’s House counterpart, is a massive redistribution of wealth from donor states like Connecticut that send more money back to the federal government than they receive back in services. Despite the analyses, economic data, and the history of what happens when you legislate according to the mythology of trickle-down economics, the Republicans forced this bill through despite it being bad for the American middle-class. It will not pay for itself as my Republican colleagues have espoused, rather it will be shouldered by middle class families, the elderly, sick and disabled. I will continue to fight this disaster of a bill.” ###
11.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, H.Res. 630 passed the House in a unanimous voice vote. This Resolution requires each Member, officer, and employee of the House of Representatives to complete a program of training in workplace rights and responsibilities each session of each Congress. “Harassment and discrimination have absolutely no place in our workplaces, let alone our society. If we truly intend to make a difference on this issue, we need to lead by example and ensure that every employee in Congress feels safe in their place of work. Both Members and staff should be made aware of the rules of conduct in their workplace, and efficient channels must be in place to assist victims with reporting, if an incident of harassment or discrimination does occur. While this is a step forward, this resolution is the bare minimum. Congress needs to do more to ensure that victims have all the resources to come forward, to ensure transparency, and can do so in a safe environment, without fear of retaliation. That is why I encourage Congress to take up the Member and Employee Training and Oversight On (ME TOO) Congress Act (H.R. 4396),” said Larson. “This goes beyond Congress. We have a cultural issue, that impacts all of society, and Congress must lead on this in order to advance an open discussion on how best to foster environments free of discrimination and harassment.” ###
11.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after he gave the keynote address at a Brookings Institution panel discussion event titled: Can Tax Reform Include A Carbon Tax?. “I want to thank the Brookings Institution for providing the opportunity to speak about my proposal to fund a robust infrastructure package with a pollution tax. This fully-paid for proposal would be an investment that would target our roads, bridges, levees, tunnels and rail lines so we can improve commerce, provide jobs, and ultimately improve the economy. It was refreshing to have an open dialogue on constructive solutions to some of our nation’s most pressing problems, including tax reform, job creation, rebuilding the country and reducing pollution. I urge Congress to get back to regular order, so we can have discussions like the one we had today, focused on practical solutions,” said Larson. Recently Larson recently introduced the America Wins Act, a $1 trillion investment in the nation’s infrastructure that would be fully-paid for with a pollution tax. More on the America Wins Act can be found here. ###
11.22.2017	Hartford, CT -- Congressman John Larson (CT-1) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) announced approval of new federal tax relief for homeowners dealing with crumbling foundations today. The policy, released today through an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) “revenue procedure,” follows nearly 19 months of work by the two members. “The individuals and families in Connecticut with crumbling foundations have been experiencing an ongoing nightmare. While there is no one silver bullet solution to make up for the loss experienced by these homeowners, today’s announcement by the U.S. Department of Treasury will provide at least some degree of relief for many of them. It is the first time that the federal government has acknowledged the unique harm Connecticut residents have suffered through no fault of their own. I’d like to thank the IRS, the Department of Treasury, the National Taxpayer Advocate, and especially all of the homeowners who have reached out to my office to share their stories and allowed me to tour their homes,” said Larson. “Our work is not done. Rep. Courtney and I will continue to engage with the administration and colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pursue every possible avenue at the federal level to provide relief for these homeowners.” “Today, the federal government has said ‘yes’ to helping homeowners struggling with the cost and damage of crumbling foundations,” Courtney said. “This is the culmination of a 19-month process with the Treasury Department, IRS, and the National Taxpayer Advocate to get federal recognition of the severe property casualty loss that north-central and eastern Connecticut homeowners are struggling with. This tax guidance adds a powerful new tool to the toolbox of options for homeowners and communities looking for way to get their arms around this extensive and long-term problem for our region. The origins of this effort started at the grassroots level from homeowners speaking out at community meetings and from Connecticut’s CPAs who urged Washington to extend casualty loss deduction to this problem. I thank Assistant Secretary Kautter, Secretary Mnuchin and former IRS Commissioner Koskinen for their personal attention and commitment to this issue - today’s announcement reflects their recognition that this is a severe problem requiring immediate attention. I look forward to continuing to work with my partner in this effort, Congressman John Larson, and officials from Treasury and IRS to make the implementation of this guidance as smooth as possible for homeowners and their communities.” Under current federal tax law, taxpayers may deduct a casualty loss from their income if they have suffered a sudden loss due to fire, flood, theft, or other sudden and unusual causes. While pyrrhotite-related damage develops over time, Courtney and Larson have been seeking IRS guidance to allow a casualty deduction related to this longer-term damage, citing the precedent of IRS assistance to homeowners affected by corrosive Chinese drywall in 2010. The new guidance, released earlier today by the Treasury Department, approves their request for federal tax relief. Specifically, the guidance allows for the treatment of crumbling foundation-related repair costs as a “casualty loss” deduction from a taxpayer's taxable income. The change is effective immediately, and taxpayers are allowed to submit amended returns. Click here to read the guidance. Background on Larson and Courtney’s efforts to secure this relief: Starting in 2016, the two members and their staffs conducted research on the process of issuing a revenue procedure for crumbling foundation relief and began outreach to IRS staff to learn more about the limits of IRS policy in this area. In May 2017, they consulted with then-IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, who supported the use of the 2010 precedent and agreed to weigh in with Treasury. The former Commissioner remained engaged on the issue as his term ended this month. The two then wrote to National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson urging her support for applying the deduction to the crumbling foundation situation. In her response, she indicated support for the effort and sharing the proposal that her office submitted for consideration. After getting support from Koskinen and Olsen, the two submitted a letter to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin requesting a meeting to discuss possible federal tax relief for the homeowners who have been harmed by crumbling foundations. The Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Policy has the authority to make a decision on providing such tax relief. Courtney and Larson also enlisted the support of the Congressman Richard Neal, the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, who weighed in on behalf of the request with Secretary Mnuchin. In September, Courtney and Larson met with Secretary Mnuchin and Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy David Kautter at the Department of the Treasury headquarters in Washington, D.C. to discuss assistance for north-central Connecticut residents impacted by crumbling concrete foundation. They requested that Treasury issue an IRS “revenue procedure” that to allow homeowners to deduct foundation repair costs from their federal taxes. In a September 26 follow up letter to Mr. Kautter, Courtney and Larson provided additional information to help guide the department’s consideration of their request. The Connecticut Society of CPAs also issued a letter in support of the effort in September. # # #
11.20.2017	U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), applauded the nearly $1.3 million in federal Long Island Sound Futures Fund grants to protect Long Island Sound and the waterways that feed it. The grants will fund 18 Connecticut-based projects to improve water quality and restore wildlife and marine habitat in the Sound as well as two upstream projects in New England to support nitrogen reduction in Long Island Sound. “Connecticut residents and businesses depend on a clean Long Island Sound, and this $1.3 million in funding will go a long way in helping us preserve it,” said the delegation. “We’re excited to see these grants help protect the Sound and ultimately inject money right back into the local economy along Connecticut’s shoreline.” The Long Island Sound Futures Fund grants will reach more than 870,000 residents through environmental and conservation education programs. Water quality improvement projects will treat 439,000 gallons of water runoff, reducing more than 15,600 pounds of nitrogen, and collecting 2,800 pounds of floating trash. The grants will be matched by $1.1 million from the grantees resulting in $2.45 million in funding for on-the-ground conservation in Connecticut and New England. Long Island Sound spans more than 1,300 square miles of coastline that are home to hundreds of diverse wildlife species, and is a proven economic driver, generating over $17 billion annually in tourism, fishing, shellfishing, and boating for the state. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Republicans jammed their tax proposal through the House. It passed with a vote of 227-205. “This is a remarkable day for the corporations and the wealthiest of Americans. However, if you are a hard-working middle-class family, not so much. The Republicans have jammed this bill through the Ways and Means Committee and ultimately to the House floor, absent of any public hearings, expert testimony or constructive debate. They have robbed the American people a voice in this legislation. Why were the American people denied input into this bill? It is because they knew that this bill was destructive for middle class families and their constituents. Instead, this bill will pull money from donor states in the Northeast, like Connecticut. As my Republican colleagues Lee Zeldin and Peter King have aptly stated - this is a redistribution of geographic wealth from one region of the country to another and from the middle-class to the corporations and the wealthiest of our country. Simply put, this was a lost opportunity for the American people and could have gone very differently. “Machinists, teachers, engineers, mechanics in Connecticut, who already give more in federal taxes than they receive back in federal funding, will be bearing this cost, and will be doubly taxed from the eliminations of deductions like the State and Local tax deduction. For example, a teacher, who spends $250 out of their own pocket on classroom supplies to help their students, will no longer be able to deduct that cost. A couple in the Greater Hartford area with a child in college could see a $1,667 tax increase in 2023, and a recent college graduate will not be able to write-off their student loan interest payments. How does this incentivize the young middle-class family to purchase a home and raise a family? It doesn’t. “A particularly unconscionable provision is the elimination of the Medical Expense Deduction. This bill will take away money from seniors who benefit from the Medical Expense Deduction, and are already struggling with the high cost of medical bills. Furthermore, this plan triggers an automatic $25 billion cut to Medicare due to the PAYGO rule, in order to close the gap of the $2.3 trillion deficit hole they created. Again, this is a remarkable day for the corporations and the wealthiest of the wealthy, but certainly a solemn one for the hard working middle-class. I will continue to fight this disastrous tax bill,” said Larson. The GOP Tax Plan: Guts the State & Local Tax Deduction Eliminates the personal exemption Eliminates the Medical Expense Deduction Eliminates teacher’s deduction for classroom supplies Eliminates deduction for property casualty loss Eliminates deduction for student loan interest ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “The passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) is a win for the First District and the state of Connecticut. The Hartford region has an extensive defense manufacturing supply chain that incorporates nearly 160 businesses. These businesses are integral parts of Connecticut’s manufacturing ecosystem that fuels our economy. Not only will flagship Connecticut companies like Pratt and Whitney, Kaman, Electric Boat, and Sikorsky benefit, but so will companies like Jarvis Airfoil, Inc. in Portland and EDAC Technologies in Glastonbury. In the First District alone, work on the F-35 is supporting nearly 4,000 jobs and is resulting in $338 million in economic activity this year. The First District is also a supplier of the Navy’s submarine programs representing $209 million in purchase orders this year and 32 suppliers of our military’s helicopter programs representing $95 million. “These manufacturers employ thousands of Connecticut residents and ensure that our brave men and women of the military have the equipment they need to fulfill their mission. Connecticut has a long and honored history of being the provision state and because of this legislation, it will continue to supply our armed forces. Passage of the FY2018 NDAA will only further bolster Connecticut’s manufacturing ecosystem. I commend the bipartisan support that this bill received, and would especially like to thank Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) for his work on the conference committee,” said Larson. ”Jarvis Airfoil’s participation in the F-35 program through our customer Pratt & Whitney, contributes in large part to the livelihood of our 87 employees. For the foreseeable future, a significant opportunity for Connecticut workers exists in aerospace manufacturing. This sector will continue to provide high wage jobs for focused, technically-minded craftspeople so long as our businesses are protected and encouraged by steady, growth-minded decision making in Washington and in Hartford,” said Jason Jarvis, President of Jarvis Airfoil, Inc. “The recent passage of the NDAA will translate into a substantial increase in EDAC’s F135 component manufacturing in 2018, and beyond. In an effort to keep up with increased F135 volumes our organization continues to hire qualified individuals, and acquire new machine tools, to support our production needs,” said Ben Adams, President and CEO of EDAC Technologies. Highlights of Connecticut's priorities in the FY 2018 NDAA Conference Report: •$13.7 billion to purchase 90 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters; 20 more than Pentagon requested. •$2 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber •$3.3 billion to fully fund 2 Virginia-class submarines in FY2018 and $2.6 billion in advanced procurement. •$2.9 billion for 17 KC-46A Tankers •$843 million for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program and $1 billion in research and development •$1 billion for 53 UH-60 Blackhawks •$567.6 million for purchase 4 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters and $340.8 million for research and development •$354.5 million for advance procurement of Combat Rescue Helicopter •$108.6 million for advance procurement of UH-1N replacement •$38.8 million for procurement and $451.9 million in development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter •$7 million for construction of Bradley Terminal ###
11.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee met for the fourth and final day of the mark-up of the partisan Republican Tax Plan. The night before, the Democrats had prepped their amendments and were fully committed to continue working through the night in order to preserve some of the middle class tax deductions being placed on the Republican’s butcher block. The final Democratic amendments all failed along party lines and the final bill passed out of committee 24-16. “Connecticut is one of the country’s leading donor states as its citizens pay more into the federal Treasury than the Treasury returns to Connecticut. By taking away vital itemized deductions like State and Local Tax deductions, medical expense deductions, student loan interest deductions or the individual exemption the middle class in Connecticut will pay more so that the wealthy and corporations can get a tax break. These are teachers, carpenters, nurses, machinists, who own homes, and work every day to build a better life for themselves and their children, who will be paying the price. This was a dishonorable process, fast-tracked for political gain on the backs of the working class and I voted no on this disastrous bill for Connecticut”, said Larson. Updates: Larson spoke on the lack of regular order the markup has had the effect this will have on states like Connecticut that are the leading donor states in the country. See here. 4 days of markup 27 Democratic Amendments were submitted and all failed along party lines. Will raise taxes on 38 million households in order to give tax breaks to the wealthiest of Americans. How does this affect Connecticut: This bill would be disastrous for the state of Connecticut as we are one of the leading donor states in the country. This flawed tax plan asks Connecticut’s middle class taxpayers to pay even more in order to subsidize tax cuts for corporations, the wealthy, and taxpayers in other parts of the country. 41% of Connecticut taxpayers claim the state and local tax deduction, the second highest rate on country. This bill would eliminate the deduction for state and local income and sales taxes and cap the property tax deduction at $10,000. This is just one of a slew of vital tax deductions that are eliminated in the bill in order to provide tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy. The Democrats introduced the following amendments were not accepted: Democratic Amendment 22 Offered by Rep. Blumenauer of Oregon on Wind Production Tax Credit (PTC) Democratic Amendment 23 Offered by Rep. Sewell of Alabama to restore the Historic Tax Credit. Rep. Larson submitted a letter from the CT State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO) to the record, detailing the projects around Connecticut that benefit from this tax credit, including Coltsville National Park. Democratic Amendment 24 Offered by Rep. Chu of California to reinstate the estate tax that affects estates worth more than $5.5 million or $11 million if filing jointly. Democratic Amendment 25 Offered by Rep. Kind from Wisconsin to reinstate Section 199 – the domestic manufacturing deduction provision. Democratic Amendment 26 Offered by Rep. Pascrell from New Jersey to access President Trump’s tax returns, as has been tradition since Nixon. Deductions Eliminated or Reduced in H.R. 1 Guts the State & Local Tax Deduction (capped at $10,000 and only for property taxes) This is Double Taxation (worth avg of $19k for the 41 percent of CT taxpayers who claim) Eliminates the $4,000 personal exemption (worth $16,000 for a family of four) Eliminates the medical expense deduction (worth $11k for 116k CT residents) Eliminates deduction for student loan interest Eliminates teacher’s deduction for classroom supplies Eliminates employer provided education assistance programs Eliminates deduction for property casualty loss Eliminates deduction for adoption expenses Eliminates the credit for individuals over age 65 or who have retired on disability Eliminates the deduction for dependent care assistance programs Eliminates the credit for employer provided child care Eliminates the Historic tax credit to for rehabilitation of historic buildings Eliminates the work opportunity credit, which incentivizes the hiring of unemployed veterans and summer youth Eliminates the New Markets Tax Credit Eliminates the credit for expenditures to provide access to disabled individuals Eliminates the Orphan Drug Tax Credit Larson’s previous statements on the tax proposal can be found here: Larson: This Is An Assault on the Connecticut Middle Class Larson: Tax Plan is a Threat to Medicare and Social Security CT Delegation Condemns GOP Tax Plan as an Attack on the CT Middle Class Larson Fights for CT Middle-Class During Day Mark-Up of GOP Tax Plan Larson Fights to Preserve Programs for the North End of Hartford Day 2 Tax Wrap Up: Larson Continues Fight for Fairness for CT Families Larson: Families Dealing with Large Medical Expenses Shouldn’t be Further Burdened Larson Supports Lewis's Cost of War Amendment ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee met for the third day of the mark-up of the harmful Republican Tax Plan. This proposal is a direct attack on Connecticut’s middle-class. The Republicans continued their political grandstanding, not accepting a single Democratic amendment, and rushing through consideration of the plan without hearing from expert witnesses, holding hearings, or listening to testimony from the public. Our Republican colleagues are not taking the concerns of the middle-class taxpayer seriously, a concern that they claimed was first and foremost in their tax bill. In response, my colleagues and I continued to introduce a series of amendments aimed at protecting the middle-class and those who would be most harmed by the Ryan-McConnell tax plan. Updates: Larson called out Republicans for eliminating the Medical Expense Deduction, making sick Americans bear the burden of tax cuts for America’s wealthiest. He introduced an amendment that would not only preserve this deduction, but lower the threshold for eligibility. The amendment failed in Committee along party lines. His introductory remarks can be viewed here. He made it clear that it’s wrong to make seniors pay for the elimination of the estate tax, a tax only the wealthiest Americans pay. Those remarks can be viewed here. Larson also supported Rep. Bill Pascrell’s amendment offering financial support to U.S. territories impacted by recent natural disasters. These are our fellow American citizens who need our help. Watch Larson’s remarks here. Larson supported Rep. John Lewis’s amendment, that would delay the effective date of revenue-reducing provisions of H.R. 1 until the U.S. Armed Forces are withdrawn from the current wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria and the budget deficit has been eliminated. The amendment failed along party lines in Committee. Larson introduced a similar measure in 2009, the Share the Sacrifice Act with David Obey, then Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and John Murtha, Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Committee. Larson’s full statement can be viewed here. How does this affect Connecticut: The elimination of the Medical Expense Deduction would greatly impact many communities across the nation. In Connecticut alone, 116,390 people claimed this deduction, averaging $11,114 in qualified medical expenses. The elimination of this deduction would result in a $1.6 billion hardship for Connecticut taxpayers at all levels, according to the Connecticut State Department of Revenue Services. Many constituents have contacted Larson’s offices with concerns over this elimination. The Democrats introduced the following amendments so far today, none were accepted: Democratic Amendment 9 - offered by Rep. Larson that would restore the medical expense deduction and drop that threshold of expenses to 7.5 percent of the taxpayer’s income. More information can be found here. Democratic Amendment 10 – offered by Rep. Lewis of Georgia that would strike section 5201, known as the Johnson Amendment, and restore the 53-year standard that prohibits religious, non-profit, charitable and related organizations from engaging in political activities. Democratic Amendment 11 - offered by Rep. Doggett of Texas that would restore the over $65 billion in cuts to tax relief for students and teachers by striking section 1204 of the bill (which repealed the above-and-line deductions for interest payments on qualified education loans and tuition and related expenses, and repealed the exclusions for interest on United States savings bonds used to pay for tuition, qualified tuition reductions, and employer-provided education assistance), and reinstating the $250 above the line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher expense. The bill would also expand the American Opportunity Act to increase the credit to a lifetime limit of $15,000, triple the refundable portion of the credit (from $500 to $1,500), add flexibility in the credit for part-time students, and fix an inconsistency in the code that currently disadvantages students who receive Pell Grants by allowing the AOTC to go towards the costs of education that the Pell Grant does not cover. Democratic Amendment 12 - offered by Rep. Thompson of California that would retroactively extend and make permanent the exclusion from income on mortgage debt forgiveness, and repeal the limitations in the bill on the exclusion from capital gain on the sale of a taxpayer’s principal residence. Democratic Amendment 13 - offered by Rep. Chu of California that would expand the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide meaningful assistance to working childless adults and noncustodial parents. Democratic Amendment 14 - offered by Rep. Delbene of Washington that would strike the section eliminating private activity bonds; increase low income housing tax credits available by 50%. Democratic Amendment 15 - offered by Rep. Sewell of Alabama that would restore advanced refunding bonds. Democratic Amendment 16 - offered by Rep. Crowley of New York that would provide an $8,000 tax credit for taxpayers purchasing their first home, and provide a credit for taxpayers who rent their homes and for whom their rent exceeds 30 percent of their income. Democratic Amendment 17 - offered by Rep. Pascrell of New Jersey & Rep. Thompson of California that would add the Give Assistance and Help to Americans impacted by Natural Disasters Act (“Give A HAND” Act) as a new title at the end of this bill. The Give A HAND Act would ensure that all victims of natural disasters are treated equally by the Federal government by providing relief to individuals and businesses to both recover in the immediate aftermath of the natural disasters and rebuild American communities. Under the amendment, taxpayers who suffered from natural disasters in the past (from 2012 through 2015) would receive certain tax benefits retroactively that will help make them whole. The amendment also provides a package of relief provisions that are effective for all natural disasters from 2016 going forward including relief for victims from the recent wildfires in Northern California, and Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. The amendment would ensure that U.S. territories impacted by natural disasters, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands – still reeling from the devastating storms, have the adequate tools and economic support from the Federal government to rebuild and begin to grow once again. Democratic Amendment 18 – offered by Rep. DelBene of Washington to repeal the 40% health benefit tax also known as the “Cadillac Tax” that is set to take effect in 2020. Language was based on H.R. 173, originally introduced by Reps. Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Mike Kelly (R-PA). Democratic Amendment 19 – offered by Rep. Doggett of Texas to restore the Alternative Minimum Tax, a provision that has long prevented many wealthy taxpayers from using loopholes to avoid paying taxes. Democratic Amendment 20 – offered by Rep. Levin of Michigan that would have closed the carried interest loophole. Democratic Amendment 21 – offered by Rep. Lewis of Georgia that would have delayed the effective date of revenue-reducing provisions of H.R. 1 until the U.S. Armed Forces withdrew from the current wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria and the budget deficit had been eliminated. Larson’s previous statements on the tax proposal can be found here: Larson: This Is An Assault on the Connecticut Middle Class Larson: Tax Plan is a Threat to Medicare and Social Security CT Delegation Condemns GOP Tax Plan as an Attack on the CT Middle Class Larson Fights for CT Middle-Class During Day Mark-Up of GOP Tax Plan Larson Fights to Preserve Programs for the North End of Hartford Day 2 Tax Wrap Up: Larson Continues Fight for Fairness for CT Families Larson: Families Dealing with Large Medical Expenses Shouldn’t be Further Burdened Larson Supports Lewis's Cost of War Amendment ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, during the Ways and Means Mark-Up of the Republican tax plan, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), supported Rep. John Lewis’s (GA-05) amendment on the Cost of War. This amendment would delay the effective date of revenue-reducing provisions of H.R. 1 until the U.S. Armed Forces are withdrawn from the current wars in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria and the budget deficit has been eliminated. The amendment failed along party lines in Committee. Larson introduced a similar measure in 2009, the Share the Sacrifice Act with David Obey, then Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee, and John Murtha, Chairman of the Defense Appropriations Committee. “As the presidential historian Robert Dallek said, ‘war kills off great reform movements.’ The only people who truly pay the price for war are members of the Armed Services and their families. If the nation decides that a war was important enough to fight, then it ought to be important enough to pay for. The Share the Sacrifice Act would have imposed a war surtax, at levels enough to fully pay for the war effort – while exempting servicemembers, their families, and the families of the fallen in honor of the steep price they have already paid. I supported the Lewis Amendment to ensure that we as a Nation remember the sacrifice that less than 1 percent of the nation – our servicemembers – bear on our behalf and highlight the growing economic disparity the reckless Republican tax plan is imposing on the American people,” said Larson. ###
11.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – During the third day of the Ways and Means Committee Mark-Up of the Republican Tax Plan, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), offered an amendment to add back the critical Medical Expense Deduction. Under current law, taxpayers who itemize can deduct medical expenses that exceed 10 percent of their income. The Republican Plan eliminates this. Larson’s amendment would add back the deduction, and lower the threshold to 7.5 percent of income. The amendment failed in Committee with a vote of 24-16. Watch Rep. Larson’s remarks on this amendment here. “The elimination of the Medical Expense Deduction would be cruel. The 8.8 million taxpayers that depend on this deduction are already suffering through hard times, why would we want to further burden them more and eliminate this deduction? My amendment adds this critical deduction back, and lowers the threshold to 7.5 percent of one’s income. We should be working to help make these Americans’ lives easier, not more difficult. Many of the Americans using this deduction are seniors in need of long-term care, or parents raising a special needs child with complex health conditions. In Connecticut alone, 116,390 people claimed this deduction, averaging $11,114 in qualified medical expenses. The elimination of this deduction would result in a $1.6 billion hardship for Connecticut taxpayers at all levels. I’m disappointed that my Republican colleagues have chosen to give corporations and the wealthy a tax break, rather than help sick Americans and their families,” said Larson. Additionally the following groups wrote to Larson to oppose the elimination of the Medical Expense Deduction. Please see their letter below. Dear Representative: We, the undersigned organizations write today to express our opposition to elimination of the Medical Expense Deduction in H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. For the past 75 years, Americans with high health care costs have been able to deduct medical expenses from their taxes. For the approximately 8.8 million Americans who annually take this deduction, it provides important tax relief which helps offset the costs of acute and chronic medical conditions for older Americans, children, pregnant women and other adults as well as the costs associated with long term care and assisted living. Medical expenses that qualify for this deduction can include amounts paid for prevention, diagnosis, treatment, equipment, qualified long-term care services costs as well as long term care insurance premiums. Low and middle-income families and individuals with significant disabilities face a constant stream of deductibles and high co-pays, and also pay out-of-pocket for various services and devices that enable the individual to live a productive life in the community. In addition, the medical expense deduction- with a threshold based on a percentage of income- is truly middle class tax relief. According to 2014 estimated IRS data: 6.3 million (69%) of those claiming the deduction reported income of $75,000 or less; 4.5 million (49%) of those claiming it reported income of $50,000 or less; 55% of all households claiming the deduction (almost 5 million taxpayers) had at least one member of the household age 65 or older; and At least 18% of all returns claiming the deduction had at least one member of the household who was age 50-64. Even those with Medicare can spend a large portion of their income on out-of-pocket expenses. The average Medicare beneficiary spends about $5,680 out-of-pocket on medical care. Furthermore, older Americans and individuals with disabilities or chronic illnesses often face high costs for long term services and support, which are generally not covered by Medicare or private insurance, as well as hospitalizations and prescription drugs, which may have significant copayments. It should also be noted that the average annual cost of a private nursing home room is over $97,000. Tax relief in this area provides needed resources to Americans with high medical costs. We thank you for the opportunity to share our views on this vital tax issue. We urge Congress to restore the Medical Expense Deduction and continue to support millions of middle class Americans with high health care costs. Sincerely, AARP ACCSES Alliance for Aging Research Allies for Independence The Arc of the United States American Association on Health and Disability American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network American Psychological Association American Senior Housing Association Argentum Autistic Self Advocacy Network Christopher & Dana Reeve Foundation Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund Family Voices HealthyWomen Justice in Aging Lakeshore Foundation Leading Age Lupus Foundation of America Lutheran Services of America The Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research March of Dimes Muscular Dystrophy Association National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys National Alliance on Mental Illness National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities National Association of State Head Injury Administrators National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship National Committee to Preserve Medicare and Social Security National Council on Aging National Council for Behavioral Health National Disability Rights Network National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Organization for Rare Disorders National Respite Coalition Paralyzed Veterans of America United Spinal Association UsAgainstAlzheimer's ###
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee met for the second day of the mark-up of the harmful Republican Tax Plan. This proposal is a direct attack on Connecticut’s middle-class. The Republicans have turned the oldest Chamber of the House of Representatives into a theater for political grandstanding where they are working under a self-imposed timeframe to quickly pass their tax plan without hearing from expert witnesses, holding hearings, or listening to testimony from the public. Our Republican colleagues are not taking the concerns of the middle-class taxpayer seriously, a concern that they claimed was first and foremost in their tax bill. In response, my colleagues and I introduced a series of amendments aimed at protecting the middle-class and the people and families who would be most harmed by the Ryan-McConnell tax plan. Updates: - Larson highlighted how the SALT elimination would greatly impact states and districts across the nation. This would result in double taxation for many Americans. This proposal divides the country against itself, dividing one region against another. Rumor has it that the Senate will preserve the SALT deductions. Watch Larson’s full remarks here. - Larson called out the Republicans for eliminating the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC). The WOTC incentivizes employers to hire people who face significant barriers to employment, such as out-of-work youths looking for summer jobs. This program helps communities like the 06120 in the North End of Hartford and helps put people back to work. Larson spoke to fight for this program and the CT residents it has helped. Watch Larson Fight for the WOTC here. National Update: The Joint Committee on Taxation released new data today that confirms that the GOP tax plan will increase taxes on millions of Americans. According the JCT, 17 million Americans tax-filers will see a tax hike in 2019 under this bill. By 2023, 20% of middle-income tax-filers with incomes between $75,000 and $100,000 will see a tax hike. This is in addition to an analysis by the New York Times that found the GOP plan will raise taxes on one-third of middle-income Americans next year and nearly half of middle income Americans in 2026. This isn’t a tax cut. It’s pitting one group of middle class Americans against another, while providing permanent tax reductions for corporations and the wealthiest Americans. How does this affect the First District: The 06120 is one of the poorest zip codes in America, so much so, it was designated a Promise Zone. The Promise Zone in the North End of Hartford has benefited from programs and tax incentives like the WOTC. For example, a company can hire a young person living the North End and receive a tax credit for hiring them. This young person ends up learning marketable skills that will be invaluable for their future careers. It is a win for the employer and a win for the employee. The Democrats introduced the following amendments, none were accepted: Democratic Amendment 1 - offered by Rep. Blumenauer of Oregon that would nullify H.R. 1 if, two years after enactment of the law, or upon yearly review thereafter, the deficit increases. Democratic Amendment 2 – offered by Rep. Pascrell of New Jersey to reinstate the deductions for state and local sales/income taxes (SALT) that help lower the tax burdens of 41 percent of filers in Connecticut and helps them avoid double taxation. Democratic Amendment 3 - offered by Rep. Kind of Wisconsin that would extend H.R. 1’s repeal of the individual state and local tax deduction to include repeal of the deduction for all business organizations. Democratic Amendment 4 - offered by Rep. Kind of Wisconsin that would restore the Work Opportunity Tax Credit. Democratic Amendment 5 - offered by Rep. Sanchez of California that would expand the Child Tax Credit to provide a $3,600 credit for families with young children, index the credit for inflation, eliminate the $3,000 earnings threshold for the refundable portion of the credit, and make permanent the $300 “family flexibility” credit. This amendment was identical to Rep. Rosa DeLauro’s Child Tax Credit Improvement Act (H.R. 821). Democratic Amendment 6 – offered by Rep. Davis of Illinois that would reinstate the Adoption Tax Credit with refundability, the exclusion for employer-related dependent care, and the exclusion for employer-related adoption assistance programs as well as modernize the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit by increasing credit amounts and making them refundable. Democratic Amendment 7 - offered by Rep. Doggett of Texas that would apply the same tax rate on profits earned abroad as on profits earned at home. It will create a level playing field for domestic companies while maintaining a corporate rate for multinationals that is lower than the OECD average. Democratic Amendment 8 – offered by Rep. Sewell of Alabama that would provide a tax credit to employers equal to a portion of wages paid to employees participating in qualified apprenticeship programs. Larson’s previous statements on the tax proposal can be found here: Larson: This Is An Assault on the Connecticut Middle Class Larson: Tax Plan is a Threat to Medicare and Social Security CT Delegation Condemns GOP Tax Plan as an Attack on the CT Middle Class Larson Fights for CT Middle-Class During Day Mark-Up of GOP Tax Plan Larson Fights to Preserve Programs for the North End of Hartford ###
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, in the second day of the mark-up of the Republican tax plan in the Ways and Means Committee, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) fought to preserve the Work Opportunity Tax Credit (WOTC) that incentivizes employers to hire people who face significant barriers to employment. The WOTC offers a tax credit for hiring veterans and other groups, like youths for summer jobs. Watch Rep. Larson Fight for the WOTC here. “The 06120 in the North End of Hartford is one of the poorest zip codes in the nation, so much so, that it was designated a Promise Zone by the Obama Administration. I am fighting to preserve the Work Opportunity Tax Credit because it helps people living in areas like the 06120. The Republicans are blindly ignoring the benefits of the program and the proof that it is working,” said Larson. ###
11.07.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee met for the first day of the mark-up of the harmful Republican Tax Plan. This proposal is a direct attack on Connecticut’s middle-class. Corporations will be getting tax cuts on the backs of hard-working families and individuals in Connecticut. This a part of the old Republican plan to make cuts to Medicare and Social Security, programs that Americans have paid for. The timeframe that our Republican colleagues are working under is self-imposed and is not taking the concerns of the middle-class taxpayer seriously. Updates: - Larson called out the Republicans for a partisan process and rushing this bill forward before taxpayers can understand how it will affect them. Roll Call has more here. - Larson pointed out that the Republican process was conducted behind closed doors and has had no public hearings, expert witnesses or debate on the bill. He highlighted that the elimination of the State and Local Tax deductions results in double taxation for the people in states like Connecticut, which can be viewed here. Connecticut is considered a donor state that pays more than their fair share into the federal coffers and the middle-class will shoulder this burden the most. His remarks can be viewed here. How does this affect the First District: The GOP wants to impose double-taxation on Connecticut families with this plan. 41% of Connecticut taxpayers claim the state and local tax deduction, the second highest rate on country. This bill would eliminate the deduction for state and local income and sales taxes and cap the property tax deduction at $10,000. This is just one of a slew of vital tax deductions that are eliminated in the bill in order to provide tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy. The neutral Joint Committee on Taxation calculated the effect this plan would have on a married couple living in West Hartford with a kid in college and who are homeowners paying off a mortgage. They found this family would see a $767 tax hike next year. By 2023, they would see a $1,667 tax hike. That is why Rep. Larson is calling on the majority to abandon this partisan proposal and to have an open process with expert witnesses so that the American public can understand how this legislation will affect them. Larson’s previous statements on the tax proposal can be found here: Larson: This Is An Assault on the Connecticut Middle Class Larson: Tax Plan is a Threat to Medicare and Social Security CT Delegation Condemns GOP Tax Plan as an Attack on the CT Middle Class ###
11.06.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) denounced the Republican tax plan that was unveiled last week and is being marked up by the House Ways and Means Committee this week. "This bill is an attack on Connecticut's middle-class. Connecticut is already among the top three donor states, contributing far more in taxes than we get back in federal spending. This flawed tax plan asks Connecticut’s middle class taxpayers to pay even more in order to subsidize tax cuts for corporations, the wealthy, and taxpayers in other parts of the country. Many Connecticut families will see a tax increase under this plan because it would eliminate vital deductions like the personal exemption, the medical expense deduction, the student loan interest deduction, the property casualty loss deduction, the adoption expenses deduction, and it guts the state and local tax deduction, to name a few. This plan will add $1.5 trillion to our debt, and Republican leaders have already signaled that they will use cuts to vital programs like Medicare and Social Security to make up the difference, which would only add insult to injury for Connecticut residents. The bottom line is that the Republican tax bill is a direct assault on Connecticut’s middle class and we are urging Republican leadership to stop this devastating plan from moving forward and to engage in an open, bipartisan process so that we can achieve tax reform that works for Connecticut families," said the delegation.
11.03.2017	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), the Ranking Member of the Social Security Subcommittee on the Ways and Means Committee made the following statement on the impact the proposed Republican tax plan will have on hard-working Connecticut families, and their intention to cut Medicare and Social Security to pay for it. “As I stated yesterday, this tax plan is a veiled way of achieving an old Republican goal of shrinking the budget to make cuts to Social Security and Medicare at the expense of seniors. In less than 24 hours, this was confirmed on MSNBC’s Morning Joe, when the Republican Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, said, ‘tax reform alone, won’t get us to a balanced budget, we have to have spending constraints along with that. As I know, as House Republicans, we are turning toward welfare reform and how we tackle our entitlements in a way to save them.’ Not only will hard working, middle-class families see their individual deductions eliminated in this tax plan, but the Republicans intend on using the hard earned money that people paid into the Medicare and Social Security programs to cover those costs. This tax plan is preposterous. It does not matter which political party you belong to, or which town you are from, because if you are a resident of Connecticut, you will be picking up the tab for this tax plan. To add insult to injury, they intend to attack the bedrock programs of Social Security and Medicare to pay for it. Whether your party is red or blue or even green, this tax plan is color blind and will ensure that families, small businesses and seniors pay more above all else,” said Larson. Larson will be holding a Facebook Town Hall this Sunday at 7 pm to answer questions and discuss the details and the effects this plan will have on Connecticut residents. ###
11.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) opposed the partisan package the Republicans passed today in the House. The Republican package further delays the extension of Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Center (CHC) funding, by attaching poison pills that undermine components of the Affordable Care Act, jeopardizing the health coverage of thousands of Americans. “For the past 20 years CHIP funding has consistently been approved on a bipartisan basis. The Republicans are playing politics with the lives of children and are harming our communities by making CHIP and CHC funding partisan. A clean extension is ultimately what will be needed. It’s time for House Republicans to stop this further delay and bring up a clean reauthorization for the children and families that rely on these essential programs,” said Larson. “I am also disappointed that it has taken over a month to even bring up the reauthorization of this vital funding to our communities. This Congress lacks a fierce urgency of now. My Republican colleagues are not putting the American people first and are instead playing partisan politics.” This partisan package will not pass the Senate, delaying funding and requiring another vote down the line. Larson instead supported the Democratic package that invests in children, safety net providers, and doesn’t sabotage fellow Americans’ health care. Larson has previously reprimanded Republicans for lacking a “fierce urgency of now”, and not reauthorizing CHIP and CHC funding. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called the Republican tax bill as an attack on the Connecticut middle-class. This proposal is not intended to benefit the elementary school teacher, the machinist, or the nurse trying to raise their families in Connecticut. “This plan is an assault on the Connecticut middle-class and their families. Connecticut residents already pay more in federal taxes than the state receives in federal funding, with Connecticut sending on a net basis nearly $8 billion to the federal government last year. How can getting rid of deductions for state and local taxes, medical expenses, or student loan interest be relief for the middle-class? It can’t. Rather, this punishes hard-working, people in the Northeast and specifically, in Connecticut, by taking away their itemized deductions and not providing them balanced relief. Furthermore, this proposal adds to the deficit by $1.5 trillion, which is a veiled way of achieving an old Republican goal of shrinking the budget to make cuts in Social Security and Medicare at the expense of seniors. It’s sad that there was an opportunity for bipartisan cooperation, but they chose to lead with a Republican-only bill, constructed behind closed doors, with no hearings, zero testimonies and no regular order. We plan to fight this tax plan every step of the way”, said Larson. As we begin to look over this tax bill, here are some of the harmful provisions for Connecticut: Guts the state & local tax deduction, resulting in a 14% tax increase for Connecticut homeowners with incomes between $50,000 - $200,000. Eliminates the personal exemption (worth over $16,000 for a family of four). Eliminates the medical expense deduction. Eliminates deduction for student loan interest. Eliminates deduction for property casualty loss. Eliminates deduction for adoption expenses. Eliminates employer provided education assistance programs. Eliminates the credit for individuals over age 65 or who have retired on disability. Eliminates the deduction for dependent care assistance programs. Eliminates the credit for employer provided child care. Eliminates the Historic tax credit to for rehabilitation of historic buildings. Eliminates the work opportunity credit, which incentivizes the hiring of unemployed veterans and summer youth. Eliminates the New Markets Tax Credit. Eliminates the credit for expenditures to provide access to disabled individuals. Larson supports a set of principles that the Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal (D-MA) introduced last week, as a path forward to tax reform. These principles reflect the values of the Democratic party and how Democrats see tax reform being implemented for the middle-class to support a vibrant, working economy. These principles focus on American competitiveness with good paying jobs, affordable educational opportunities, easing the tax burden on American manufacturing and making it affordable to raise a family again. Democratic Principles for Tax Reform: Real Reform for Real People Reforming the Tax Code to Provide Relief for Middle-Class Families Provide middle-class workers with a well-deserved “raise” to address years of income stagnation. Ensure that working parents are supported when taking paid family leave, including maternity and paternity leave. Strengthen the Earned Income Tax Credit by expanding eligibility and extending the childless workers’ credit. Expand the Child Tax Credit to help middle-class families care for young children. Help middle-class families afford quality and safe housing, buy a first home or pay the rent. Reforming the Tax Code to Provide Education Opportunities for Middle-Class Families Expand and simplify the American Opportunity Tax Credit to help students and families pay for post-secondary education. Provide additional tax incentives for education at vocational and professional schools. Help middle-class students and families pay off their student loans by excluding from income employer-provided student loan debt repayments and increasing the student loan interest deduction. Reforming the Tax Code to Assist Middle-Class Families with the High Cost of Dependent Care Expand access to and increase assistance for high quality child care, including expansion of the Child Care Tax Credit. Help American families with the rising costs of dependent family members and the care of elderly parents. Reforming the Tax Code to Ensure a Secure Retirement for American Families Make it easier for middle-class families to save for retirement, including creating automatic IRAs or 401(k) plans, and expanding the Saver’s Credit. Strengthen and improve benefits for Social Security and Medicare. Putting Americans Back to Work in Good Paying Jobs Closing the Skills Gap A key component of competitiveness in the global economy is investment in a well-trained and skilled workforce. A 2015 report by the Manufacturing Institute estimated that over the next decade, two million manufacturing jobs in this country could go unfilled due to the skills gap. The New England Council reported similar results. At a time when families across the country are trying to reach and stay in the middle-class, our nation cannot afford to have factories and workers sit idle. Providing a new tax credit to employers to train and hire new workers through apprenticeship programs and partnerships with community colleges and technical schools. Expanding Infrastructure Investment and Enhancing Economic Development We must improve our nation’s infrastructure, currently rated at a D+ by the American Society of Civil Engineers, to compete with other developed nations. That includes substantial investments to repair and enhance our nation’s roads, rail, bridges, and harbors. The new economy needs expanded broadband, energy access, and tools for smart growth to better serve individuals and businesses in our new economy. We also must continue to revitalize our urban neighborhoods and rural communities. These win-win reforms will jump start economic growth and create thousands of good paying, middle-class jobs for hardworking Americans. By making a significant investment in rebuilding our nation's infrastructure, we will be investing in American workers by creating jobs and financial stability for middle-class families. Invest revenue from tax reform to make a substantial down payment on our nation’s infrastructure needs. Make permanent the Build America Bonds program. Maintain and expand tax-exempt bond financing for infrastructure projects. Update current financing mechanisms for infrastructure investment. Leverage private investment to create public-private partnerships to ensure meaningful investment in community infrastructure. Make permanent the New Markets Tax Credit program and enhance the low-income housing tax credit and historic tax credit. Strengthen the Competitiveness of American Businesses in the Global Economy A key component of tax reform is ensuring that American businesses remain competitive in the global economy, and that we prevent American jobs from moving overseas. Increase the domestic manufacturing deduction and provide additional tax incentives to manufacturers that build and hire in the United States. Enhance the tax incentives for companies to conduct research and development in the United States. Provide tax relief and simplification to small businesses. Eliminate tax provisions that encourage companies to move American jobs overseas. ###
11.01.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced the America Wins Act, a bill to invest $1 trillion in the nation’s infrastructure over 10 years, creating millions of jobs, and providing a boost to the economy and the middle class that is sorely needed. This bill is fully paid for by taxing harmful pollution, with a portion of the revenue reserved to be passed to consumers in the form of a tax rebate and dedicated funding to assist those in coal country who have been struggling. “Infrastructure is not a Democratic or Republican issue, it’s an American issue. At a time when the American people are tired of partisan gridlock, this is a solution to fix our crumbling infrastructure and put people to work rebuilding the country. China has been investing upwards of 8.5% of GDP in infrastructure while the United States is investing a record-low of 1.4%. This is simply unacceptable. Now is the time to invest here at home. The America Wins Act offers a common-sense way to pay for a robust infrastructure bill without adding a penny to the national debt,” said Larson. “This is a jobs program for the middle class, it’s tax relief for consumers, it shores up the pensions of coal miners, and it improves the quality of the air we breathe. It is a win-win-win-win.” Original Cosponsors: Nanette Barragan, Earl Blumenauer, Mike Capuano, Salud Carbajal, Andre Carson, Steve Cohen, Peter DeFazio, Val Demings, Mike Doyle, Ruben Gallego, Alcee Hastings, Jared Huffman, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Donald Payne Jr., Lisa Blunt Rochester, Frederica Wilson Endorsed by: American Society of Civil Engineers, American Road and Transportation Builders Association (ARTBA) Larson first unveiled this legislation in August at an event held with transportation stakeholders in East Hartford Summary of the America Wins Act Rebuilding the Nation’s Infrastructure – $1 trillion The American Society of Civil Engineers has graded the state of our infrastructure as a “D+”, according to their 2017 Report Card. This is simply unacceptable. In every state and every Congressional district, there are badly needed infrastructure projects that are stuck sitting in the pipeline because of a lack of funding. This bill will make these types of projects a reality. It will invest in all types of infrastructure, including: $400 billion towards existing federal highway programs to go towards roads, bridges, and tunnels. That is in addition to fully eliminating the $138 billion+ Highway Trust Fund shortfall. $100 billion towards existing federal transit programs to go towards bus systems, commuter rail, subways, light rail and other forms of public transportation $50 billion for innovative multimodal projects through the TIGER program $50 billion for intercity passenger rail infrastructure $30 billion for airports and our aviation system $50 billion for sewer systems and safe drinking water $64 billion for levees, dams, ports, and waterways $30 billion for broadband deploymentCoal Country Revitalization – $50 billion $5 billion annually will go towards assisting workers and communities that are heavily reliant on carbon-intensive industries such as the coal sector. The Treasury Secretary will distribute the industry transition funds in consultation with the Secretary of Labor. Eligible uses would include: Worker retraining Pensions Health benefits Abandoned mine reclamation Economic development Development of carbon capture, utilization, and storage technologies Consumer Relief – $800 billion All remaining revenue from the America Wins Act will be recycled back to the American people in the form of a tax rebate working and middle-class households and an Energy Refund for low-income Americans. Low income households will receive a direct monthly payment to fully offset higher energy costs. Middle income households will be eligible for a refundable tax credit. Fully Paid for Without Increasing the National Debt Puts price on carbon pollution in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by taxing coal, oil, and natural gas based on their carbon content. The price would begin at $49/ton and increase annually 2% above inflation. A carbon price of this nature is anticipated to raise $1.8 trillion over 10 years[1], providing ample funding to invest in our infrastructure, provide consumer relief, and assistance those in carbon-intensive industries like coal. All revenue would be deposited in the Build America Trust Fund within the US Treasury solely to be used for the purposes spelled out in the America Wins Act. The tax would be levied upstream at the point it enters the economy at the mine, the wellhead, or the point of importation. A Carbon Equivalency Fee will be imposed on imports to ensure that foreign competitors play on a level playing field with domestic firms and exports will be exempt. It has the added benefit of reducing pollution that harms our air and water and contributes to a warming planet. By 2030, it would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 39% relative to 2005 levels, significantly exceeding the United States’ Paris Climate Accords commitment emissions reductions that were projected to be achieved through the Clean Power Plan. [2] [1] https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/tax-policy/tax-analysis/Documents/WP-115.pdf [2] http://www.rff.org/files/document/file/RFF-IB-17-09.pdf ### [1] https://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/tax-policy/tax-analysis/Documents/WP-115.pdf [2] http://www.rff.org/files/document/file/RFF-IB-17-09.pdf
11.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement upon his call for a renewed Authorization of Use of Military Force (AUMF) to be passed in Congress. “It has been 16 years since the two standing Authorization of Use of Military Forces (AUMF) were passed in Congress. Our military has been engaged in the longest running war in American history in Afghanistan, and our troops continue to fight Al Qaida and its affiliates around the world, many of which did not exist over a decade ago. The mission has clearly changed over time and nearly two thirds of the current members of Congress were not in office since the last two authorizations were put in place. However, the authorizations are still being loosely interpreted to deploy our men and women in all corners of the world. While the commitment of our military is unquestionable, the Administration and the United States Congress owe them a clear direction before sending them into harm’s way. As the Commander in Chief, the President has an obligation to his troops to update the mission and ask Congress for a more fitting AUMF. I am encouraged by the bipartisan momentum behind Senator Tim Kaine and Senator Jeff Flake’s proposal, and I will be introducing similar legislation to provide more clarity, direction and legal authority for our military engagements. This will send an important message to our friends and enemies abroad that we are united in our resolve. It has taken far too long for Congress to renew an AUMF and we owe it to our fighting few and their families to do so”, said Larson. ###
11.01.2017	Washington D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. John Larson had a productive meeting with Resident Commissioner Jennifer Gonzalez-Colon of Puerto Rico on the recovery efforts happening in Puerto Rico and the path forward. Rep. Larson has previously called on additional support outside of the supplemental emergency assistance that was passed in the recent budget. He is calling on Congress to ensure a sustainable and efficient recovery for our fellow Americans on the islands. “The Islands of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands remain in critical condition. As it stands, 70% of Puerto Rico remains without electricity in addition to lacking sufficient potable water. After a constructive conversation with my Republican colleague, Commissioner Gonzalez Colon, we discussed opportunities to join effort from both the public and private sectors, and agreed that we can work with one another from across the aisle and find the best path forward for Puerto Rico. The path to recovery will certainly be a joint effort and I pledged my full support to do whatever is need to help those who have been so severely affected by Hurricane Maria.” Congressman Larson said.
10.24.2017	Congressmembers John Larson (CT-1) Brian Higgins (NY-26), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Bobby Scott (VA-3), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) and Jared Polis (CO-2) announce introduction of the House companion to the Senate Medicare-X Choice Act of 2017. The Medicare-X Choice Act (H.R. 4094) builds upon the successful framework of the Medicare program by providing a public plan as an option on the individual and small business health exchanges. Congressman Larson said, “Medicare X is a practical approach that uses the successful framework of the Medicare system to provide Americans with an additional, affordable coverage option. In addition, by encouraging the use of innovative models and approaches for individuals with chronic conditions, this bill will help drive down costs and improve quality within our health care system. It’s a sensible step towards a healthier future.” Rep. Higgins said, “For over 50 years Medicare has been an efficient and trusted healthcare option for older Americans. Building on a system that works to make it available to more people who want it, is simply common sense. Medicare-X adds choice and competition to the existing marketplace.” “It is time that we consider ways to build upon the ACA by improving competition in the health care exchanges,” said Rep. Courtney. “By harnessing the value of Medicare, we can infuse high quality, affordable insurance plans into state’s marketplaces, lowering costs and offering new options to consumers.” Congressman Scott said, “At a time when Congress and the administration should be working to improve our current health system, the administration’s actions have undermined the Affordable Care Act and created uncertainty and confusion for American families. I am proud to join my colleagues in putting forth a plan to build on the ACA’s progress, and ensure that all Americans have greater access and more options for affordable health coverage.” “We need a public option such as Medicare offered through the ACA to increase coverage and lower costs so every American can afford to see a doctor when they need one,” said Representative O’Rourke. “There are many paths to reach universal coverage, and our Medicare-X legislation is a step in the right direction.” “While President Trump sabotages the Affordable Care Act, creating instability in the market, I am proud to help introduce Medicare-X in the House of Representatives, alongside Rep. Higgins. Medicare X will improve upon the Affordable Care Act by giving people more choices, and bringing down costs. It builds on the successes of Medicare by allowing individuals and small businesses to choose among existing private insurance plans and a public one. In my home district, this is especially important, where the options for rural and mountain counties are limited,” said Polis. The Medicare-X Choice Act uses the existing health care system, and gradually reinforces it, by providing more options for the public of all ages. Medicare-X would be offered through individual and family coverage plans and the Medicare provider network would be expanded to include pediatricians, children’s hospitals and others. The Act will ensure Essential Health Benefits like maternity, newborn care, and pediatric services are covered. The bill also allows for prescription drug negotiation through Medicare Part D. Under the bill, premiums are put into a new, separate trust fund, holding the Medicare trust fund for individuals ages 65 and over harmless. Beginning in 2020, the Medicare-X plan will be available in rural areas of the country where there is only one or no health insurance providers on the exchange. The plan will also be available in counties where there is a shortage of health plan options, which have driven up costs and rendered prices simply unaffordable for the American below the age of 65. By 2023, the public option would be available on the individual market and in 2024, the plan would be an option on the Small Business Health Options Program (SHOP) exchange. The Senate version of the Medicare-X Choice Act was introduced by Senator Michael Bennet (CO) and Senator Tim Kaine (VA). Additional Senate sponsors include Senators Harris, Cortez Masto, Leahy, Cardin and Feinstein. ###
10.24.2017	[WASHINGTON, DC] – With Connecticut communities still waiting to receive millions of dollars in federal community policing grants, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) wrote Attorney General Jeff Sessions today demanding an explanation for the delay. The grants, made available through the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant program, should have been disbursed by the end of September. Although no explanation has been given for the delay, the lawmakers also noted that deferring payments due to Connecticut’s immigration policies would be in direct violation of a court order. “Police departments in our state rely on these funds to keep officers in neighborhoods, keep communities safe, and ensure that our criminal justice system operates smoothly and effectively,” the Congressional Delegation wrote. “Given the importance of these resources, grant awards are generally processed months in advance so that funds are paid out as soon as possible. Given the Trump administration’s promise to strengthen law enforcement, we are puzzled as to why the Department would interrupt such a critical pipeline of resources.” The full text of today’s letter is available here and copied below. October 24, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: We are deeply concerned about the delay in the disbursement of Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) program funds for community policing to the state of Connecticut and its cities. We are writing to express our concerns regarding this apparently unjustified delay – which undermines the efforts of Connecticut’s state and local law enforcement officials to keep our citizens safe – and to demand an explanation. As you know, the Department of Justice was scheduled to disburse around $2.6 million in critical community policing JAG funds to Connecticut by September 30. These funds include approximately $1.7 million for the state of Connecticut and $900,000 for Bridgeport, Danbury, Hamden, New Haven, Norwalk, Stamford, West Haven, and nine other municipalities. The Department has missed the deadline and provided no explanation for the delay. The JAG program is among the leading federal sources of law enforcement assistance. Police departments in our state rely on these funds to keep officers in neighborhoods, keep communities safe, and ensure that our criminal justice system operates smoothly and effectively. Given the importance of these resources, grant awards are generally processed months in advance so that funds are paid out as soon as possible. Given the Trump administration’s promise to strengthen law enforcement, we are puzzled as to why the Department would interrupt such a critical pipeline of resources. Some reports suggest that this delay is a result of Connecticut’s immigration laws and policies. If true, this delay would be illogical and potentially illegal. As you know, on October 12, your Department affirmed Connecticut’s compliance with federal immigration laws, writing that it has “found no evidence” of violations of 8 U.S.C. 1373. Even if the Department determined that Connecticut was out of compliance with federal immigration laws, it would be violating a court order if it continued to deny the state federal grants. Two district court judges have issued separate nationwide injunctions blocking the Department from denying federal funding to so-called sanctuary jurisdictions, with the latest one pertaining specifically to the JAG program. Given this disturbing and potentially illegal delay of JAG funds, we request that you respond to the following questions within 10 days. Why did the Department delay disbursement of around $2.6 million in JAG funds to Connecticut? Under what legal authority are you withholding JAG funds? Which Department officials were involved in the decision to delay disbursement of JAG funds? When was the decision made? Why did your Department fail to provide an explanation of the delay to state and local governments? Do you intend to disburse JAG funds to Connecticut and its municipalities? If so, when do you intend to complete the disbursement?
10.19.2017	Before Amazon is set to choose the location of their recently announced $5 billion second North American headquarters, called “Amazon HQ2”, U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) urged Amazon to make Connecticut their home. In a letter to Amazon’s Office of Economic Development, the delegation emphasized that Connecticut’s accessibility to major marketplaces, high quality of life, talented workforce, and various educational institutions make the state the ideal place for the company to grow. Amazon’s second headquarters is expected to create tens of thousands of additional jobs. “We write in full support of Connecticut as the home of your second headquarters, ‘Amazon HQ2.’ As proud representatives of Connecticut’s residents, communities, and businesses, we stand ready to work with Amazon to make Connecticut the home of Amazon’s next phase of growth and innovation,” wrote the delegation. “As Amazon weighs the many offers from states across the country, we can confidently say that Connecticut’s talented workforce, location, and quality of life set us ahead of other locations the company will consider. We are excited and ready to welcome Amazon to our state.” Earlier today, Governor Dannel P. Malloy and Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD) Commissioner Catherine Smith today unveiled the State of Connecticut’s proposal for Amazon’s second headquarters, which includes sites in the Hartford and Stamford regions. The full text of the letter is available online and below: Amazon Office of Economic Development c/o Site Manager Golden 2121 7th Avenue Seattle, WA 98121 RE: Connecticut and Amazon HQ2 Dear Site Manager Golden, We write in full support of Connecticut as the home of your second headquarters, “Amazon HQ2.” As proud representatives of Connecticut’s residents, communities, and businesses, we stand ready to work with Amazon to make Connecticut the home of Amazon’s next phase of growth and innovation. As Amazon weighs the many offers from states across the country, we can confidently say that Connecticut’s talented workforce, location, and quality of life set us ahead of other locations the company will consider. Connecticut’s residents are productive and innovative. We have a long history of ingenuity, creativity, and a passion for learning. We rank among the highest advanced degree holders in the country. The state’s colleges and universities, including Yale University, University of Connecticut, and Wesleyan University, are strategic partners in producing students who are well-trained in all disciplines, from engineering and advanced technologies to the liberal arts. These well-rounded college graduates become residents who contribute to our state’s vibrant cities and quintessential New England small towns. Our strategic location and connectivity to the country’s major business and population hubs provide quick access to major marketplaces and financial centers. With access to three rail lines and several interstate highways connecting to New York City and New England, we are uniquely positioned to help Amazon’s employees play an active role in the East Coast’s vibrant economy. With five general aviation airports and Hartford’s Bradley International Airport providing flights to major U.S. cities as well as Ireland, Canada, Scotland, and Mexico, Connecticut is a gateway to the world. Building on Amazon’s existing logistics and distribution sites in two Connecticut towns, Amazon’s HQ2 would represent a continuation of an already beneficial relationship between our state and the company. Our accessibility to places outside of the state is complemented by a unique sense of home, community, and quality of life that sets Connecticut apart. Amazon employees could choose to live in rejuvenated, urban downtowns or quiet tree-lined streets in historic small towns, while maintaining access to Amazon’s new headquarters. The virtue of our small state is the ability for employees to choose a community to fit their lifestyle and their needs. Whether it is millennials who want to enjoy city living or a growing family that’s looking for a backyard and great schools, Connecticut offers something for everyone. We are excited about the opportunity to share Connecticut’s unique charms with Amazon. We are ready and supportive of the federal workforce development and infrastructure programs necessary to make Connecticut a place where Amazon can grow. As federal representatives, we work hand in hand with state and local leaders to advocate for the policies and funding that make Connecticut a better place to do business, live, and play. We are excited and ready to welcome Amazon to our state. Sincerely, Christopher S. Murphy Richard Blumenthal John B. Larson Joe Courtney Rosa DeLauro Jim Himes Elizabeth H. Esty
10.19.2017	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in support of Connecticut's proposal for Amazon's search for a second headquarters location. Gov. Dannel Malloy will be releasing a proposal later today for the Hartford/East Hartford region. "Connecticut's bid for Amazon's second headquarters location is one of the state's highest priorities. Since the time of Samuel Colt, Hartford has been a hub of innovation. This opportunity could help lead Hartford into its next renaissance. We have a strong talent base in the Hartford region, and Amazon would be able to use this resource to expand and grow. I am committed to doing whatever I can to help Connecticut secure Amazon's second headquarters location. I have been in touch with key people at Amazon, and I am a part of a letter from the Connecticut delegation to Amazon. We're a small state, but we have big potential." ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump announced that he would be decertifying the Iran Nuclear Agreement, known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA). “The Iran Nuclear Agreement was not perfect, however, as I have stated before and as others in the Trump administration believe, this agreement is the best option, and it has blocked Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. The decertification has now put this deal in the hands of the U.S. Congress and I am calling on my colleagues to act in the best interest of United States’ national security. If we withdraw from the agreement without a credible cause, the United States will not only be abandoning our alliances with regional and European partners, but we will put ourselves in a corner. We will be sending a strong, and dangerous message to North Korea and China, saying that the United States’ word can’t be trusted. Equally as important as the decertification, is our credibility with our allies which is instrumental in our ability to negotiate with North Korea. By going back on our word, this will hamper our ability to do so and our credibility. This is beyond politics. We ought to do what’s right for the country.” ###
10.13.2017	Hartford, CT – In a deliberate attack on our nation’s healthcare system, the Trump Administration announced the termination of cost-sharing reduction subsidies (CSRs). CSRs help reduce out-of-pocket health care costs for lower-income Americans. “Those impacted by this decision are not statistics or a part of a political play; they are human beings, our fellow American citizens, who are being treated unfairly by this administration. Between cutting funding for Affordable Care Act enrollment outreach, to pursuing new regulations to blow holes in the law that allow the sale of junk insurance, they are out to sabotage our health care system. On average, insurers across the nation have already raised their premiums by 20 percent because of threats from the President to end CSR payments. This is harmful, cruel and unnecessary,” said Larson. “In Connecticut, nearly 46,000 residents benefit from the cost-sharing reduction program, which helps reduce the cost of co-payments and deductibles for individuals and families who earn less than 250 percent of the federal poverty level. Now more than ever, it is time for bipartisan action on commonsense solutions to improve our health care system, since the Trump Administration is determined to sabotage, and not help.” On September 12th, Reps. Larson, Courtney, and Higgins introduced the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act (H.R. 3748) to help improve existing CSR payments, make them available for more middle-class Americans, and allow Americans ages 50 to 64 to buy-into Medicare. The bill also proposes other ways to bolster stability in the marketplaces and bring down health care costs by finding innovative ways to reduce billions in waste, fraud, and abuse in the health care system. ###
10.13.2017	As negotiations between Hartford HealthCare and Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield have stalled, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), and U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) on Friday urged Hartford Healthcare CEO Elliot Joseph and Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield Connecticut President and General Manager Jill Hummel to reach an agreement and resolve the contract dispute as soon as possible. The dispute has threatened access to affordable health care services for roughly 60,000 Connecticut residents. “We write today to express our concern for the approximately 60,000 patients and policyholders affected by the ongoing impasse between Anthem and Hartford Healthcare. These Connecticut residents rely on the health care and health coverage provided by your respective organizations, and the current stalemate in negotiations is disruptive and a disservice to them,” said the delegation. “Continued gridlock is harmful to everyone involved. We urge you to seek a prompt resolution.” The contract between Hartford HealthCare and Anthem expired on September 30, 2017. Beginning on October 1, 2017, all Hartford HealthCare hospitals, ancillary providers and employed physicians are considered out of network for patients with Anthem commercial, exchange and Medicare Advantage plans, resulting in higher out-of-pocket costs for these patients. Hartford HealthCare has posted answers to frequently asked questions here and is available by phone at 800-644-5905. Similarly, Anthem has provided information here. The full text of the letter is available online and below: We write today to express our concern for the approximately 60,000 patients and policyholders affected by the ongoing impasse between Anthem and Hartford Healthcare. These Connecticut residents rely on the health care and health coverage provided by your respective organizations, and the current stalemate in negotiations is disruptive and a disservice to them. While we respect that this is a private negotiation between two private entities, and do not make any representations as to the merits of either side’s position, we urge you to work in good faith to resolve the situation as quickly as possible. Choosing and retaining a health care provider and health insurer is a personal, and often complex, choice. Patients, especially those who are dealing with chronic or acute illnesses, are now left with the difficult choice of either paying higher out-of-network rates or finding care elsewhere with another provider who may not be able to see them when needed. Additionally, this causes significant confusion for patients as to what services remain in-network. Hartford Healthcare and Anthem both play a significant role in the delivery of health care in the state of Connecticut and have built trusted reputations over their many years of service. Continued gridlock is harmful to everyone involved, and we hope to work with both of you once a solution is reached to ensure Connecticut residents have quality and affordable health care. Thank you in advance for your consideration, as we urge you to seek a prompt resolution. Sincerely, ###
10.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that there will be a much-needed two percent increase in the Cost of Living Adjustment (COLA) for Social Security benefits beginning in January 2018. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, released the following statement: “Today’s announcement of a 2% Social Security cost-of-living adjustment is good news for seniors, however more must be done since earned benefits from Social Security provides the majority of income for two-thirds of retirees, ” said Larson. “Seniors have been seeing rises in food, gas, housing, and medical costs, without always seeing adequate increases in the COLA. That’s why I am proposing that we adopt a new COLA formula known as CPI-E, which better reflects the expenses seniors face. “The Social Security 2100 Act would not only adopt a more accurate COLA formula, but it would also provide a much-needed benefit bump to today’s seniors, and strengthen Social Security through the end of the century and for generations to come.” The COLA is set according a formula in the Social Security Act based on the increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as determined by the Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics. The COLA for 2017 was 0.3 percent. ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the disaster relief supplemental. “Although I voted for the $36.5 billion disaster supplemental today, I did so with a heavy heart. It has been three weeks since Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. 83 percent of Puerto Rico still lacks power, only 64 percent have access to clean water, and there’s still limited access to adequate food supply, and other basic necessities. Just two days ago, the Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services said the devastation he saw was the equivalent to a nuclear detonation and that whatever we do will be insufficient to the demand and need that is there. Although a $4.9 billion loan will help local authorities in the short-term, it is not a sustainable plan for long term recovery considering the scale of the damage. The islands are in dire need for assistance to restore critical infrastructure, which is why it would be much more effective to focus on funding recovery grants and waiving federal matching requirements until both territories become more economically stable. This is further reason that Congress must continue to work on behalf of the more than 3.5 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to ensure they have the resources needed for immediate relief and to assist them towards a long term recovery. Additional action from Congress will be required, and I look forward to voting on future legislation to aid Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands,” said Larson. Summary of the Additional Supplemental Appropriation for Disaster Relief Requirements Act of 2017: $18.67 billion for DHS/FEMA, of which $4.9 billion can be used for Disaster Loan Program Account for Community Disaster Loans to help local governments affected by recent hurricanes; • $16 billion cancellation of National Flood Insurance Program debt; $1.2 billion for disaster nutrition assistance in Puerto Rico through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP); • $576.5 million for wildfire efforts; • No funding for the Small Business Administration (SBA) low interest direct loans to assist homeowners and small businesses with recovery and rebuilding; • No funding for Community Development Block Grants (HUD); No funding for restoration and repair of damage sustained by ports, highways, transit, airports, and air traffic control infrastructure; No funding for Medicaid and community health centers. Larson previously sent a letter to President Trump requesting waiving the federal matching requirements. ###
10.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-01) and David McKinley (WV-01) along with U.S. Senators Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Pat Roberts (R-Kan.) released the following statement about today’s preliminary determination from the U.S. Department of Commerce to impose additional duties on Bombardier C Series aircraft: “We are disappointed with the Department’s preliminary decision to impose additional duties on the C Series aircraft. This decision is shortsighted and threatens thousands of good jobs across the country supported by Bombardier and its suppliers. We urge the Department to work with the parties to find a responsible solution that will not negatively impact American aerospace workers, American airlines and airline consumers before reaching a final decision.” This summer, the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled, preliminarily, that U.S. manufacturers of large civil aircraft (i.e. Boeing) may be threatened with material injury by the prospective sales of aircraft from Bombardier to Delta Airlines. A final judgment from the Department of Commerce is due in February 2018. ###
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the harmful FY 2018 Budget Resolution that passed the House. Larson voted NO. “Today, I voted against the Republican’s harmful budget that would set the table for slashing vital programs such as SNAP, Medicaid, and ends the Medicare guarantee, all in order to enact tax cuts for those that need them the least. The Republican budget would provide fast track authority to pass their reckless tax plan that overwhelmingly favors the wealthy on a partisan basis. Instead, I voted for a Democratic alternative that would provide funding for our national defense, our veterans, and would make investments here at home, including a robust infrastructure plan,” said Larson. More information on the Democratic alternative budget can be found here ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act (H.R. 2465) passed out of the full Energy and Commerce yesterday with a voice vote. This bill, introduced by Representatives John Larson (D-CT), Cathy McMorris Rogers (R-WA), and House Majority Whip Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA), would make coverage of medically necessary speech generating devices (SGD) under “routinely purchased durable medical equipment” permanent under the Medicare program, protecting beneficiaries’ access to critical means of communication with their loved ones and medical providers. “The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act is now one step closer to becoming law and I’d like to thank Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her leadership on this critical bill. This legislation would protect access to speech generating devices for the millions of beneficiaries suffering from ALS and other degenerative diseases. I’d like to thank all of our partners at the ALS Association and Connecticut’s own Center for Medicare Advocacy for their continued commitment. The advancement of this bill through the Committee process is a testament to the hard work and dedication of Team Gleason and Mr. Gleason, who continues to advocate on the behalf of others who are battling ALS and other conditions,” said Larson. “I urge Congress to bring this important bill to the floor for passage.” Background: The Enduring Voices Act is named after former NFL player Steve Gleason, who has become a champion of those with ALS after being diagnosed with the disease himself in 2011. After learning about CMS regulatory changes that limited access to speech generation devices for those on Medicare, Mr. Gleason wrote an open letter to Congress and CMS in July of 2014. In September of 2014, more than 200 Members of the House and Senate—Democrats and Republicans—sent a letter to CMS to investigate this arbitrary decision. In July of 2015, the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 was signed into law to protect patient access to speech generating devices. However, those protections are slated to expire October 1, 2018. On September 13, 2017, the bill was voted favorably out of the Energy and Commerce’s Health Subcommittee. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act of 2017 would build upon the successes of the 2015 law to permanently protect these medically necessary devices. ###
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. John Larson released the following statement after the Ways and Means Committee advanced H.R. 849, To repeal the provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). “Despite the fact that we just had the largest mass shooting in the history of the United States, incurred multiple devastating hurricanes, and this past weekend was the deadline to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and community health centers, we spent yesterday afternoon marking-up a bill that repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB). I was dismayed that we were considering this bill when there were more immediate issues facing our country. Where is the fierce urgency of now in this Congress? These crises demand the vitality of our ideas, and we must deliver to our constituents what we were sent to DC to accomplish - to find solutions for the American people, especially those that are the most pressing . In addition, while I support the repeal of the IPAB, our Republican colleagues in the past have brought IPAB repeal legislation to the floor coupled with significant cuts to vital health programs for families and children. Without a commitment in the markup from them to not repeat the same cruel gimmick, I could not support the legislation.” Said Larson. ###
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In response to the recently revealed Equifax data breach, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John Larson (CT-01) and Chairman Sam Johnson (TX-03) held a bipartisan Member roundtable with senior Social Security Administration (SSA) officials. The roundtable focused on the agency’s cybersecurity response to the Equifax breach, anticipated risks as a result of the breach, and what the SSA is doing to mitigate those risks for both the agency and the public. After the conclusion of the roundtable, Larson and Johnson released the following statement: “Millions of Americans’ identities were put at risk due to Equifax’s neglect. The fact that several government agencies – including the Social Security Administration – contract with Equifax for identity verification services compounds the seriousness of this breach. Americans expect government agencies to safeguard their personal information. We are encouraged by the SSA’s actions to protect the public and its own systems, and we will continue to keep a close eye on this issue as more information becomes available.” Background on Equifax Breach On September 7, 2017, Equifax, one of the three primary credit reporting agencies in the U.S., revealed that it learned about a data breach on July 29, which resulted in the theft of sensitive information of at least 145 million American consumers. The breach exposed the names, dates of birth, addresses, Social Security numbers (SSNs), and in some instances, driver’s license numbers of those affected. In addition, credit card numbers of approximately 209,000 American consumers, and credit record dispute documents containing personally identifiable information for approximately 182,000 American consumers, were accessed. ###
10.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the tragic mass shooting that took place in Las Vegas last night. “Once again, the nation is beset with a horrific mass shooting and Congress has done nothing. We are all heartbroken for the victims and their families, my thoughts and prayers are with them all. “This December, it will be five years since the tragedy at Sandy Hook occurred. In that time, there have been over 1,500 mass shootings. Since that horrific day, the U.S. House of Representatives has not held a single vote on commonsense gun violence prevention measures. With each day that passes, Congress remains complicit in these acts of violence. Silence and prayers for the fallen are simply not enough. We need a vote on common sense solutions that not only address gun violence, but also focus on mental health and universal background checks. We will continue to demand action for the victims of gun violence. A Quinnipiac Poll in 2017, listed that 94% of Americans polled were in favor of universal background checks. My colleagues in the majority need to do something for a change and address this epidemic. How many more tragedies, how many more deaths need to occur until they are finally able to stand up to the NRA and do what is right?” said Larson. ###
09.29.2017	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $750,000 in new federal funding to help prevent youth substance abuse. This funding, through the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), will benefit coalitions working to end youth substance abuse in Torrington, Enfield, East Haddam, Naugatuck, Durham, Middlefield, and Bridgeport. “This timely, and critical funding will support the dedicated coalitions in Torrington, Enfield, East Haddam, Naugatuck, Durham, and Bridgeport working tirelessly to ensure that young people in our state don’t start down the path towards addiction,” said the delegation. “We all know the harrowing scourge of substance use and abuse in our cities and towns. With a focus on prevention, this grant will put us one step closer towards realizing safer, drug-free communities. We thank ONDCP for this wise investment and are grateful for the outstanding work done by our local coalitions.” A full breakdown of the awards is below: • Torrington Coalition to Reduce Youth Substance Use, Torrington $125,000 • Enfield Together Coalition, Enfield, $125,000 • East Haddam Local Prevention Council, East Haddam $125,000 • Step Up Naugy Coalition, Naugatuck $125,000 • Local Wellness Coalition, Durham/Middlefield $125,000 • Bridgeport United Coalition, Bridgeport $125,000 ###
09.28.2017	The HFD will receive approximately $11 million in federal grant funding over three years to pay for personnel costs through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) program, and approximately $1 million this year to pay for radio upgrades through the Assistance to Firefighters Grants (AFG) program. The City’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget included funding for approximately seventy new firefighters, to backfill significant attrition that the City has experienced and expects in the months ahead. One class of thirty-six began training in July and another is expected to start this fall. The SAFER grant will allow the City to hire a total of about 110 new firefighters over the course of the fiscal year ending in June of 2018. The AFG grant will upgrade the existing radio system used by the Fire Department, improving communication between firefighters during emergencies. “This is great news for the City of Hartford and its residents,” said Congressman John Larson. “I would like to extend my congratulations to Chief Reginald Freeman and the Hartford Fire Department. This grant, the second largest awarded in the country this year, will allow the fire department to increase its workforce by hiring dozens of new firefighters. The men and women of the Hartford Fire Department are hard-working individuals who put their lives on the line to protect the community. They deserve the peace of mind that comes with having an adequately staffed fire department. People who work and live in the city will be safer because of this grant and the outstanding job that the Hartford Fire Department does.” “I want to congratulate Chief Freeman, our outstanding fire department, and our grants department on the great work and strong partnership that helped secure this second largest SAFER grant in the country, as well as the vitally important grant to upgrade our radio system,” said Mayor Bronin. “I also want to thank Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and Congressman Larson for their strong support. The men and women of the Hartford Fire Department serve our City with incredible dedication, skill and professionalism, and with a staffing shortfall, they’ve been working long hours and long weeks away from home. With the help of these two grants, we can hire the recruits we need and also invest in the communications equipment that’s so important to the safety and effectiveness of our firefighters. While this grant is spread out over three years and won’t have an immediate impact on our near-term fiscal gap, it will allow us to hire the additional firefighters necessary to reach our optimal staffing level and reduce overtime costs down the road.” “This major federal grant will put more firefighters on the job keeping Hartford safe,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal. “I thank Hartford firefighters for their brave, tireless service and will continue to advocate for federal grant programs that provide critical support for our fire departments.” “Firefighters are often the first ones on the scene of an emergency or when someone calls for help,” said Senator Chris Murphy. “They deserve the best possible training and personnel, and this $11 million grant is crucial to helping keep Hartford residents safe. I was proud to advocate for this grant and the Hartford Fire Department deserves every penny.” “Our Hartford firefighters are tremendous public servants and I am very glad the City was able to secure this significant federal funding with the assistance of our outstanding federal delegation,” said City Council President Thomas “TJ” Clarke II, who is also a Co-Chair of the Council’s Public Safety Committee. “This is a reflection of the strong partnership across City departments and the strong commitment to public safety we have as a City Council in partnership with Chief Freeman and our Mayor.” “Thank you to Chief Freeman, the City of Hartford’s grants and management teams, members of the Hartford Fire Department, and our federal delegation who have worked on securing these grant funds for the Hartford Fire Department,” said City Councilman James Sanchez, Co-Chair of the Council’s Public Safety Committee. “Their work has resulted in $12 million being awarded to the City of Hartford – that is to say $11 million through the SAFER Grant and $1 million from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. These funds will enhance Hartford’s ability to recruit, hire, and retain firefighters and maintain its status as a Class 1 Fire Department. These funds will also be used to provide quality equipment and training to our Hartford firefighters. In short, these funds will improve the HFD’s ability to serve residents, the health and safety of our Fire personnel, and will increase Hartford’s resilience.” "Our staffing levels have been low due to a large number of retirements, and we’ve long had issues with our radio system in parts of the City,” said Fire Chief Reginald Freeman. “As a Department, these much-needed grants will allow us to prepare for the future knowing we’ll be properly staffed and equipped to continue providing our community with a high level of service. I want to thank the Mayor, the City Council, the entire team that put the grant applications together, as well as our federal delegation.” ###
09.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Democratic Motion to Recommit on H.R. 3823, that would increase by $1 billion the amount appropriated to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Larson voted against H.R. 3823 after the motion to recommit was not adopted, because it did not include enough aid to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. “We need to send an aid package to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands in the same way we provided relief for Texas and Florida. More aid is needed to deal with the devastation by the consecutive hurricanes that have destroyed these islands. To pull back and give less to U.S. citizens is a travesty and an insult to the American citizens of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. We should not have to wait until October to receive the request. Congress needs to fully fund an aid package now and ensure that they have all the means available to them to recover from this disaster today, and into the future.” Larson previously sent a letter to President Trump requesting deployment of additional assets by the Defense Department. ###
09.28.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), and Joe Courtney (CT-2) announced $9,384,131 in federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education under the Magnet Schools Assistance Program to support magnet schools in the New Haven, Hartford, and Old Lyme area. “This major, competitive federal funding will support magnet schools in the New Haven, Hartford, and Old Lyme area, expanding educational opportunities for many students across the state,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, Larson, DeLauro, and Courtney. “A well-rounded, enriching educational experience goes a long way in preparing our children for the jobs of the future. Whether it’s STEM, the performing arts, or public policy, our magnet schools in Connecticut offer exciting and engaging curriculum for students. We’re proud to help advocate for Connecticut magnet schools so they can continue to enlighten and educate students for years to come.” Funding from these grants is anticipated for the next five years. The breakdown for Fiscal Year 2017 is below: · City of New Haven Public School System, New Haven: $2,997,763.00 · LEARN, Old Lyme: $3,297,073.00 · Capitol Region Education Council, Hartford: $3,089,295.00 In New Haven, the funding will serve the Community Interdistrict Magnet School, King/Robinson Interdistrict Magnet, Edgewood Creative Thinking through STEAM Magnet School, the East Rock Community and Cultural Studies Magnet School, and the Davis Academy for Arts and Design Innovation Interdistrict Magnet School. The grant will support curriculum in STEM, arts and design innovation, public policy, and cultural diversity. "New Haven Public Schools is excited to be the recipient of the Magnet Schools Assistance Program grant for the ninth cycle in a row. It is a clear indication that the work we began over 20 years ago to bring high quality, multi disciplinary educational opportunities to our students, in an integrated school setting continues to be valued. I'm looking forward to the new innovations this latest grant will allow us to explore and to seeing our students success,” said Interim Superintendent Dr. Reginald Mayo. In Old Lyme, the funding will serve the Regional Multicultural Magnet School, Cutler Arts & Humanities Magnet Middle School, West Side STEM Magnet Middle School, Teachers’ Memorial Global Studies Magnet Middle School, Kelly STEAM Magnet Middle School, and Connecticut River Academy. The grant will support curriculum in arts and international baccalaureate, STEM, STEAM global studies, environmental science, and advanced manufacturing. “We are delighted to have the opportunity to work with the US Department of Education on this important effort to reduce racial isolation and foster high quality magnet programming in our local schools,” said Dr. Eileen Howley, LEARN’s Executive Director. “We know that the true beneficiaries of this effort are our region’s children and families. The federal grant recognizes the significant need of communities like Groton, Norwich, and East Hartford, where major contradictions between wealth and poverty are most prevalent and the achievement gap is so pronounced,” said Dr. Eileen S. Howley, Executive Director of LEARN. In Hartford, the funding will serve the CREC Academy of Science and Innovation, CREC Public Safety Academy, Metropolitan Learning Center for Global and International Studies, and the Enfield Public Schools Preschool STEAM Academy. The grant will support curriculum in STEM, STEAM, public service and leadership, international baccalaureate and global leadership. “CREC is excited for this opportunity, and we look forward to collaborating with Enfield Public Schools to strengthen choice options available to families in the Hartford region. With these funds, we will expand access to high quality, integrated educational opportunities and enhance themes at Enfield Prekindergarten STEAM Academy, CREC Academy of Science and Innovation, CREC Public Safety Academy, and CREC Metropolitan Learning Center,” said Dr. Greg Florio, Executive Director, CREC. ###
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), member of the House Ways and Means Committee and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Social Security, released the following statement after meeting with President Trump along with bipartisan Committee members to discuss the need for tax reform that focuses on the middle class. “In today's meeting on tax reform, we made clear that our goals remain revenue and distributional neutrality. The President assured us that tax reform would benefit lower and middle income Americans and also make U.S. companies more competitive and fuel economic growth. We don’t want a repeat of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts, where it was advertised that tax cuts were for everybody, but in fact, those at the top did well and those at the bottom received minor relief. If we are to generate real growth for our economy, we must implement tax reform that comes from the middle out and not from the top down. It was encouraging to hear the President express his willingness to work in a bipartisan manner on tax reform. “We discussed the two issues that would come through the Ways and Means Committee, tax reform and infrastructure. I spoke with the President about a robust infrastructure package citing the conditions of the Hartford and East Hartford levees and the need to replace the I-84/I-91 interchange in Hartford with a tunnel system, which would ease congestion and be a boon for commerce along the Hartford riverfront. The President agreed there would be a robust infrastructure package as he has long said that the nation’s infrastructure is a priority for his office. Democrats raised the concern that the plan should be paid for up front so that we don’t leave a debt for future generations to pay. It is my belief that tax reform is an opportunity to both raise the revenue for an infrastructure plan and build up the middle-class. “I was pleased to hear that the President will be going to Puerto Rico Tuesday, and that he is directing his efforts towards the relief and recovery of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. He understands that more funding will be needed to help our fellow Americans,” said Larson. The Ways and Means Committee will be taking up tax reform in the coming weeks. Larson feels there is potential to link the efforts in a bipartisan effort in order to lower taxes and rebuild our country’s infrastructure. Earlier this month, Larson held a press conference with Transportation Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Democrat Peter DeFazio (D-OR) in Hartford where they announced their support of the I-84/I-91 tunnel proposal in person. ###
09.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement, as Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands deal with the aftermath of recent hurricanes. “Our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands have incurred historic devastation by Hurricanes Irma and Maria. They are still in desperate need of resources and I stand ready to support immediate aid in Congress to send to the islands. Constituents in need of assistance and those looking to help in the recovery efforts should visit FEMA’s website here or reach out to my Hartford office at 860-278-8888 to speak with a staff member in English or Spanish. “Whether it is Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands, we are all a members of the American family and we must provide help to our fellow citizens who have experienced a natural disaster." DECLARACIÓN DE LARSON SOBRE LA DEVASTACIÓN DEL RECIENTE HURACÁN EN PUERTO RICO Y LAS ISLAS VIRGENES DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS Washington, D.C. - Hoy, el Representante John B. Larson (CT-01), publico la siguiente declaración, ya que Puerto Rico y las Islas Vírgenes de los Estados Unidos se ocupan con los efectos de los recientes huracanes. "Nuestros ciudadanos en Puerto Rico y las Islas Vírgenes de los EE.UU. han sufrido una devastación histórica por los huracanes Irma y María. Todavía están en desesperada necesidad de recursos y yo estoy listo para apoyar la ayuda inmediata a través del Congreso, para enviar a las islas. Los constituyentes que necesitan ayuda y aquellos que buscan ayudar en los esfuerzos de recuperación deben visitar la página de web de FEMA aquí o llamar a mi oficina de Hartford al 860-278-8888 para hablar con un miembro del personal en inglés o español. "Ya sea Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico o las Islas Vírgenes, todos somos miembros de la familia Estadounidense y debemos brindar ayuda a nuestros ciudadanos que han sufrido un desastre natural.” ###
09.25.2017	(Washington) The bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus welcomed six new members to its growing membership: Congressman John Larson (CT-01), Congressman Pat Tiberi (OH-12), Congresswoman Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07), Congressman Chris Collins (NY-27), Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (FL-07), and Congressman Jack Bergman (MI-01). Co-Chaired by Congressman Ted Deutch (FL-22) and Congressman Carlos Curbelo (FL-26), the Caucus is now comprised of 58 Members of Congress, split evenly between Democrats and Republicans, representing diverse districts from across the country. “These new Members are joining the Caucus amid a devastating hurricane season, where major storms are gaining strength from the warmer waters in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico,” said Congressman Deutch. “We are witnessing the serious impacts of climate change right in front of our eyes. More and more Members of Congress believe we need to respond to climate change right now, and I’m thrilled that they turn to the Climate Solutions Caucus as a forum for open and constructive dialogue.” "The real-world implications of sea level rise have been on display for all to see in Texas, Florida and the Caribbean following Hurricanes, Harvey, Irma and Maria," Congressman Curbelo said. "I'm grateful these members are willing to step up and turn their concern into action by joining the Climate Solutions Caucus. This growing bipartisan coalition will be critical to ensuring Congress makes finding solutions to this issue a priority." “I firmly believe that the best solutions are bipartisan ones. Climate change shouldn’t be a polarizing issue, it is about following the scientific facts and working together to sustain a healthy planet. I am pleased to join the Climate Solutions Caucus and I am looking forward to working towards bipartisan solutions to help our climate,” said Congressman Larson. “As a New Yorker, I was there five years ago when Superstorm Sandy devastated our City. Now, this year, an unprecedented set of hurricanes have hit Houston, Florida, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands," said Congresswoman Velázquez. "I believe climate change will present mounting challenges in the years ahead. The Climate Solutions Caucus is a bipartisan effort to address these issues by both curbing climate change and helping localities invest in resources they need to withstand future weather disasters. I’m proud to join this effort.” “I am happy to join the bi-partisan Climate Solutions Caucus with my fellow New Yorker Nydia Velazquez," Congressman Collins said. "As an Eagle Scout, I believe in preserving our national parks and recreational sites for future generations. I look forward to discussing solutions that truly improve our environment, while balancing the needs of our economic sector.” “Climate change poses a threat to Florida’s economy and our way of life, but it also presents an opportunity for the state to step up and lead on this issue,” said Congresswoman Murphy. “Clean air and water shouldn’t be a partisan issue, which is why I’m proud to join the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus. By working together across party lines, we’re leading the fight to reduce our carbon footprint, create well-paying clean energy jobs, and support research that address the threat to our communities. Florida must continue to lead the way in the development of alternative and renewable energies, and I’m working to ensure our beautiful state lives up to its full potential.” “Michigan’s First District is home to some of our nation’s most cherished natural resources and I’m proud to join my colleagues to examine ways to promote and protect these resources," Congressman Bergman said. "Michiganders understand that our Great Lakes and natural resources are worth protecting – for our environment, for our economy, for our kids and grandkids, and for the future of the Great Lakes region” The mission of the Climate Solutions Caucus is to educate members on economically-viable options to reduce climate risk and to explore bipartisan policy options that address the impacts, causes, and challenges of our changing climate. As determined by the Co-Chairs, the Caucus membership will consist of equal representation by Democrats and Republicans. The full membership of the Climate Solutions Caucus in the 115th Congress can be accessed here. ###
09.22.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) urged Department of Energy Secretary Rick Perry on Friday to release the remaining funds of a $15 million grant the Department awarded the Danbury-based FuelCell Energy, Inc. in 2015. FuelCell Energy, Inc. – which also operates a facility in Torrington – received a $15 million commitment from the Department of Energy to develop a fuel cell technology that reduces emissions from coal- and gas-powered plants. To date, the Department of Energy has released only $3 million of their $15 million commitment. In a letter to Secretary Perry, Connecticut’s federal delegation emphasized that completion of FuelCell Energy, Inc.’s technology would directly support American manufacturing jobs and help protect our environment, but that the project cannot be completed without the remainder of the Department of Energy’s $15 million commitment. “Of the $15 million commitment from the Department, $2 million was obligated at the time of the award, and an additional $1 million followed in August of 2016. Since that time, no funds have flowed to the project, leaving a $12 million commitment from the federal government unobligated,” wrote the delegation. “We urge the Department to obligate additional funds immediately after FuelCell Energy, Inc. reaches the milestones prescribed in the cooperative agreement, as the promising project cannot advance and realize its full potential until the funds are released.” The members continued, “This project highlights American innovation and manufacturing, and it will directly support U.S. manufacturing jobs. We thank you for your attention to matter, and we again urge you to continue the funding stream for this groundbreaking technology.” The full text of the letter is available online and below: Dear Secretary Perry: We write in strong support of a fuel cell technology that we believe is an important tool to reduce emissions from coal- and gas-powered plants across the country. The technology is currently in the final stages of engineering, and the construction of a large-scale demonstration of this technology at a power plant in Barry, Alabama, is scheduled for 2018. The Department of Energy (Department) already awarded funds to the project in 2015, and a portion of that award has been obligated. We urge the Department to obligate the remaining funds as quickly as possible. In 2015, FuelCell Energy (FCE) was awarded $15 million (Assistance Agreement Award No. DE-FE0026580) from the Department’s Office of Fossil Energy on this $23.7 million demonstration project. FCE is funding the remaining $8.7 million as part of a cooperative agreement with the Department. Of the $15 million commitment from the Department, $2 million was obligated at the time of the award, and an additional $1 million followed in August of 2016. Since that time, no funds have flowed to the project, leaving a $12 million commitment from the federal government unobligated. It is our understanding that under the cooperative agreement between the Department and FCE, once FCE reaches certain milestones, the Department will release additional funding from the grant award. We urge the Department to obligate additional funds immediately after FCE reaches the milestones prescribed in the cooperative agreement, as the promising project cannot advance and realize its full potential until the funds are released. The FuelCell Energy technology is innovative insofar as it merges the fuel cell process, which is hungry for carbon dioxide, with power plants that produce large amounts of carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide from the power plants flows into the fuel cell and eventually emerges in a highly concentrated form, ready for storage. Not only is the carbon dioxide separated and compressed, but the fuel cell also produces power in the process, thus making the fuel cell carbon capture technology more cost-effective relative to other technologies. In addition to those benefits, the FuelCell Energy technology also diminishes the amount of nitrous oxides generated by combustion processes in large-scale coal and gas power plants. The Department has previously provided assistance for the research and development of this technology, and the Plant Barry project—the first utility-scale demonstration—is the culmination of those efforts. The Barry, Alabama project will demonstrate carbon capture from natural gas-fired power generation as well as from coal-fired power generation. After two years of laboratory tests, this megawatt-scale demonstration project is a critical research project for our economy and our environment. Further, this project highlights American innovation and manufacturing, and it will directly support U.S. manufacturing jobs. We thank you for your attention to matter, and we again urge you to continue the funding stream for this groundbreaking technology. Sincerely, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal U.S. Representative John Larson U.S. Representative Joe Courtney U.S. Representative Rosa DeLauro U.S. Representative Jim Himes U.S. Representative Elizabeth Esty ###
09.21.2017	PLEASE VISIT FEMA'S WEBSITE HERE FOR THE LATEST INFORMATION PLEASE SEE THE LETTER REP. LARSON SENT TO PRESIDENT REQUESTING MORE AID FROM THE DOD. Unified Response and Recovery Efforts in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands Continue Nearly 10,000 federal personnel on the ground to support Hurricane Maria response and recovery September 25, 2017 The top priority of the federal government is continuing to provide life-saving and life-sustaining resources to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. FEMA and its federal partners continue to conduct 24-hour operations, aggressively conducting search and rescue operations, bringing additional essential commodities to the islands, and restoring power at critical facilities with generators and the fuel needed to power them. Power has been restored to Centro Medico Hospital in San Juan and San Pablo Hospital in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. Fuel arrived for several hospitals in Puerto Rico: Ashford Presbyterian, Pavia Santurce, Pavia Hato Rey, San Francisco, and Clinica Metro Pavia. The Schneider Regional Medical Center mobile hospital in St. Thomas was re-established. Nine FEMA Urban Search & Rescue task forces (CA TF-2, TX TF-1, MA TF-1, NY TF-1, CA TF-6, CA TF-7, VA-TF2, FL TF-1 and FL TF-2), are stationed and conducting operations in the Caribbean. VA-TF 1 will be demobilizing today following the conclusion of operations in the U.S. Virgin Islands. FEMA US&R task forces have saved or assisted 516 individuals as of September 25. The U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) is conducting search and rescue operations in St. Croix, and in the surrounding waters. USCG has saved or assisted 15 individuals. While significant progress in being made in the response to Hurricane Maria, recovery for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands will be long and frustrating, and will require the help of the whole community. As access to ports, airfields, and roads continue to open, more resources will flow into hard hit areas. FEMA is raising awareness that Hurricane Maria disaster survivors, and their friends and family, should be alert for false rumors, scams, identity theft, and fraud. FEMA has a dedicated website to address some of the most common themes. Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Visit FEMA's Hurricane Rumor Control page to get the most accurate information from trusted sources. FEMA encourages all residents to continue following the direction of commonwealth, territorial, and local officials. To donate or volunteer, contact the voluntary or charitable organization of your choice through the National Voluntary Agencies Active in Disasters (NVOAD) at www.nvoad.org. Federal Resources On the Ground or En-Route There are more than 10,000 federal staff, including more than 700 FEMA personnel, on the ground in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands supporting response and recovery operations from Hurricanes Maria and Irma. A FEMA Federal Coordinating Officer and Incident Management Assistance Team is co-located with the Governor on St. Croix, as well as liaisons on St. John and St. Thomas. A Federal Coordinating Officer, an Incident Management Assistance Team, as well as permanent and surge staff are in Puerto Rico. Eight airports are open on Puerto Rico, and two airports in the U.S. Virgin Islands for military and relief flights to bring in commodities, and lifesaving and life-sustaining resources. The federal government is working with its interagency and private sector partners to support availability, transportation and delivery of fuel, based on priorities identified by Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The federal support for fuel transportation includes air and sea logistical support by the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), U.S. Northern Command, the U.S. Navy, and U.S. Coast Guard, in coordination with the private sector. The ports of San Juan, Fajardo, Culebra, Guayanilla, and Vieques are open for daylight operations and other ports are undergoing assessments. On St. Thomas, the ports of Crown Bay, Cruz Bay, East Gregerie Channel, Red Hook, and West Gregerie Channel are open with restrictions while other ports are being assessed. On St. Croix, the ports of Krause Lagoon and Limetree Bay are open with restrictions while other ports are being assessed. FEMA, working in coordination with federal partners, provided more than 1.5 million meals, 1.1 million liters of water, nearly 300 infant and toddler kits, and nearly 12,000 emergency roofing kits to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico since Hurricane Maria’s landfall. Flights and sea vessels loaded with commodities are arriving or awaiting airport/port clearance for delivery: Six commercial barges transported and delivered meals, water, generators, cots, and other commodities to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. An air bridge is established, with multiple flights per day to St. Croix and Puerto Rico, transporting more than 100,000 meals daily to each. The logistics support ship SS Wright arrived carrying more than 1.1 million meals, and nearly one million liters of freshwater. Two shipping barges with 1.2 million liters of water, 31 generators, and more than 6,000 cots arrived in St. Thomas. Two additional shipping barges loaded with food, water, and emergency relief supplies are en route to the Caribbean Sea from Florida. Millions of additional meals are being flown to Puerto Rico from staging areas in Kentucky and Florida. The Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) is transporting a shipment of 124,000 gallons of diesel fuel to Puerto Rico, with arrival in the coming days. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued an order on September 24 authorizing FEMA and DoD to install and operate temporary water treatment units to provide clean water in the U.S. Virgin Islands to address concerns about a lack of clean alternative water supplies. One Mobile Emergency Response Support team (MERS) is in St. Thomas, and one MERS team and one Disaster Emergency Communication Coordinator are on St. Croix assisting personnel with communications. More than 100 satellite phones will arrive today in Puerto Rico to help with communications needs on the ground. FEMA’s National Business Emergency Operations Center (NBEOC) is facilitating private sector requests for humanitarian relief. The NBEOC continues coordination between government and private sector organizations as the community responds to Hurricanes Maria and Irma. Other federal agencies are taking the following actions: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) operations personnel are onsite in St. Thomas to evaluate, fix, and install FAA equipment, in support of airport operations. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) completed a Blue Roof install on Cyril E. King Airport on St. Thomas, and completed its first residential Blue Roof install on September 23. Installations began on St. Croix Sunday, September 24. Additionally, USACE has 84 generators on hand in Puerto Rico and 27 generators in St. Thomas with more than 50 additional generators en route. USACE and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) continue to survey damaged channels and ports in Puerto Rico. USACE and other supporting agencies have completed several temporary power installs on Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and completed more than 100 inspections. A Coast Guard mobile communications convoy is en route to Puerto Rico to help improve communications across the storm-impacted area. Coast Guard personnel continue to deliver critical FEMA relief supplies to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) and the DoD conducted medical evacuations for more than 100 patients from the islands to the continental United States. Medical evacuations from the islands will continue. Additionally HHS medical teams are on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The National Guard Bureau (NGB) has more than 4,300 Guard members on the ground in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands taking part in security and support operations. The Air National Guard is focused on transporting food, water, and communications capabilities as well as rapidly increasing airlift into affected areas. Customs and Border Protection airplanes and helicopters are assisting with conducting damage assessment and search and rescue missions. More than 180 Federal Law Enforcement Officers are in San Juan and the US. Virgin Islands supporting search and rescue, medical teams, and other federal responders. Information for Survivors For those in declared areas and who are able to do so, registering online, at www.DisasterAssistance.gov, is the quickest way to register for FEMA assistance. Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the recent hurricanes. The American Red Cross Safe and Well website is a free public reunification tool that allows individuals and organizations to register and post messages to search for loved ones, or for individuals to indicate that they are safe. The site is always available, open to the public, and available in English and Spanish. There are a number of ways to use this service: Registrations and searches can be done directly on the website. Registrations can also be completed by texting SAFE to 78876. Messages exist in both Spanish and English. To speak with someone at the American Red Cross concerning a missing friend or relative who has a serious, pre-existing health or mental health condition, please contact 1-800 Red Cross (1-800-733-2767). The American Red Cross Emergency App features an “I’m Safe” button that allows users to post a message to their social accounts, letting friends and family know they are out of harm’s way. The app can be downloaded for free in app stores by searching for “American Red Cross” or by texting ‘GETEMERGENCY’ to 90999. Anyone who finds a child who may be separated from parents or caregivers, please contact the local police and enter basic information and/or a photo into the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children's Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you find an unaccompanied child, please indicate whether the child has a disability or has access and functional needs in the appropriate field in the Unaccompanied Minors Registry. If you do not have access to the internet, please call 1-866-908-9570. Declarations On September 23, President Trump amended the earlier major disaster declaration for the U.S. Virgin Islands to make funding available to affected individuals in St. Thomas and St. John, in addition to St. Croix. On September 20, President Trump issued a major disaster declaration for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico as a result of Hurricane Maria. This declaration makes federal funding available to affected individuals in 54 municipalities. Federal funding is also available to the Commonwealth and eligible local governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work in all 78 municipalities in the Commonwealth, along with hazard mitigation measures throughout the Commonwealth. On September 18, President Trump issued the following federal emergency declarations in advance of Hurricane Maria’s landfall: Territory of the U.S. Virgin Islands Commonwealth of Puerto Rico Rumors, Misinformation and Fraud Disaster survivors, and their friends and family, should be alert for false rumors, scams, identity theft, and fraud. Although many Americans are working hard to help their neighbors , during chaotic times, some will always try to take advantage of the most vulnerable. To dispel some of the false rumors circulating on the internet and social media, FEMA has a dedicated website to address some of the most common themes. Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Visit FEMA's Hurricane Rumor Control page to get the most accurate information from trusted sources. Here are a few guidelines to protect yourself, or someone you care about, from disaster fraud: Federal, territorial, and local workers do not ask for, or accept, money. FEMA staff will never charge applicants for disaster assistance, home inspections, or help filling out applications. Stay alert for false promises to speed up the insurance, disaster assistance, or building permit process. In person, always ask to see any FEMA employee ID badges. FEMA Disaster Survivor Assistance teams may be in impacted communities providing information and assisting survivors with the registration process or their applicant files. A FEMA shirt or jacket is not proof of identity. All FEMA representatives, including our contracted inspectors, will have a laminated photo ID. All National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) adjusters will have an NFIP Authorized Adjuster Card with their name and the types of claims they may adjust. If you are unsure or uncomfortable with anyone you encounter claiming to be an emergency management official, do not give out personal information, and contact local law enforcement. If you suspect fraud, contact the National Center for Disaster Fraud’s hotline at 1-866-720-5721, or email the organization at disaster@leo.gov. You can also report fraud to the Federal Trade Commission at www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov. Learn more about the National Center for Disaster Fraud at www.justice.gov/disaster-fraud. Safety If you encounter flood waters, remember – turn around, don’t drown. Driving through a flooded area can be extremely hazardous. Almost half of all flash flood deaths happen in vehicles. When in your car, look out for flooding in low lying areas, at bridges, and at highway dips. As little as six inches of water may cause you to lose control of your vehicle. Use extreme caution when entering buildings that may have been damaged. Be aware of areas where floodwaters have receded. Roads may have weakened and could collapse under the weight of a car. Wear sturdy shoes or boots, long sleeves and gloves when handling or walking on or near debris. Avoid downed power lines or objects in contact with downed lines. Ensure water is safe to drink, cook or clean with after a flood. Oftentimes a boil water order is put in place following a flood. Avoid strenuous work during the warmest part of the day. Use a buddy system when working in extreme heat, and take frequent breaks. Additional information for the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico is available at the following locations: www.VIalert.gov (U.S. Virgin Islands) USVIupdate.com (U.S. Virgin Islands) http://eldiamenospensado.pr.gov/ (Puerto Rico) http://www2.pr.gov/Pages/Huracan.aspx (Puerto Rico) Puerto Rico’s Federal Affairs Administration: By Email: maria1@prfaa.pr.gov By Phone: (202) 800-3133 Additional information regarding Hurricane Maria is available in English and Spanish at: fema.gov/hurricane-maria Follow FEMA on Twitter @femaregion2 https://www.fema.gov/es/huracan-maria https://twitter.com/FEMAespanol
09.18.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $2,666,359 awarded to sixteen health centers in the state of Connecticut to fund treatment for mental health and opioid abuse. The grant is part of a $200 million package awarded to 1,178 health centers and thirteen rural health organizations in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, and U.S. territories by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). “This funding, while welcome, is only a small step in stopping the opioid scourge in Connecticut,” said the delegation. “It is good news for the health centers that have been on the front lines of fighting the opioid epidemic in hard-hit Connecticut communities. We call on the Trump Administration to keep the promise made to Americans across the country struggling with opioid abuse, and continue providing aid to communities in need.” Connecticut grant recipients are listed below. Organization City Award CHARTER OAK HEALTH CENTER, INC HARTFORD $174,944 COMMUNITY HEALTH AND WELLNESS CENTER OF GREATER TORRINGTON, INCORPORATED TORRINGTON $175,700 COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INCORPORATED MIDDLETOWN $175,700 COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES, INCORPORATED HARTFORD $85,200 CONNECTICUT INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITIES, INC. DANBURY $175,700 CORNELL SCOTT-HILL HEALTH CORPORATION NEW HAVEN $175,700 FAIR HAVEN COMMUNITY HEALTH CLINIC INC NEW HAVEN $175,700 FAMILY CENTERS INC. GREENWICH $175,700 FIRST CHOICE HEALTH CENTERS, INC. EAST HARTFORD $175,700 GENERATIONS FAMILY HEALTH CENTER, INC. WILLIMANTIC $129,200 NORWALK COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC. NORWALK $175,700 OPTIMUS HEALTH CARE, INC. BRIDGEPORT $175,700 SOUTHWEST COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INC. BRIDGEPORT $168,615 STAYWELL HEALTH CARE, INC. WATERBURY $175,700 UNITED COMMUNITY SERVICES INC NORWICH $175,700 WHEELER CLINIC, INC. THE PLAINVILLE $175,700
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced three amendments they authored in support of support Connecticut residents impacted by crumbling foundations passed in the House of Representatives. The amendments were added to an omnibus appropriations bill to fund the federal government which passed the House today. These amendments represent the first time that a full chamber of Congress has passed measures related to crumbling foundations in Connecticut. “These amendments set an important precedent that Congress understands the dire situation facing homeowners impacted by crumbling foundations and is willing to support action by the federal government to assist them. We are committed to pressing forward with these proposals and others as soon as we have another opportunity,” Larson and Courtney said. “The crumbling foundations crisis in Connecticut is going to require an all-hands-on-deck response at the municipal, state, and federal level. No single bill or action is going to be able to fix this problem – it will require to an amalgamation of different solutions. We remain committed to pursuing every possible source of assistance at the federal level and that is why we met with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin earlier this week.“ Summaries of the three related crumbling foundations amendments included in the omnibus appropriations measure: · Community Development Block Grant: The amendment directs HUD to develop applications of Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) to pyrrhotite residential damage. In August 2016, HUD confirmed that it would be possible to apply CDBG grant funding to this problem. CDBG grants are largely managed through states, and this amendment would ease Connecticut’s formulation of a CDBG plan to assist homeowners affected by crumbling foundations. · National Institute of Standards and Technology: The amendment directs the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) to establish standards for acceptable levels of pyrrhotite in concrete aggregate, and to continue providing technical assistance to those interested in pyrrhotite detection, prevention, and mitigation tools. NIST, an agency within the Department of Commerce, has experts on staff with experience in concrete research. Earlier this year, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross responded to a letter sent by members of the Connecticut delegation saying that they would make NIST experts available to Connecticut for technical assistance. · Internal Revenue Service: The amendment directs the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to develop a “revenue procedure” related to the deduction of casualty losses in homes experiencing damage over time due to pyrrhotite. On Monday, Courtney and Larson met with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy David Kautter at the Department of the Treasury headquarters in Washington, D.C. to discuss such a revenue procedure -- a guidance document that, if approved, would allow homeowners to deduct foundation repair costs from their federal taxes, helping to reduce the cost of repairs to families. The Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Policy directs the issuance of these documents, which are then prepared by the IRS. All three of the amendments were passed unanimously by voice vote during floor debate on the omnibus appropriations measure.
09.15.2017	(Hartford, CT)- Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced a grant from the National Cemetery Administration (NCA) totaling nearly $3.2 million to improve the Connecticut State Veterans Cemetery in Middletown. The grant will raise, realign, and clean 7,393 headstones and fund refurbishment of 270,000 square feet of turf. The project will cover 5 acres and serve 184,300 Veterans and their families. “Veterans and their families deserve unwavering respect and gratitude for their service shown in their final resting place,” said the delegation. “This significant federal funding will allow the heroes laid to rest at the State Veterans Cemetery in Middletown to be honored for generations to come.” Through the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, the Veterans Cemetery Grants Program is designed to complement VA’s 135 national cemeteries.
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act was passed out of the Energy and Commerce’s Health Subcommittee today with a voice vote. This bill, introduced by Representatives John Larson (D-CT), Cathy McMorris Rogers (R-WA), and House Majority Whip Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA), would protect access to medically necessary speech generating devices (SGD) under the Medicare program. For some beneficiaries suffering from ALS and other degenerative diseases, these devices are essential for communication and self-expression. “I’d like to thank Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her leadership in advancing the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act of 2017 out of Energy and Commerce’s Health Subcommittee today, moving this critical bill one step closer to becoming law. This bill would provide a lasting solution for millions suffering from degenerative diseases who rely on speech-generating devices to communicate with their loved ones and doctors. I’d like to thank all of our partners at the ALS Association and Connecticut’s own Center for Medicare Advocacy for their continued commitment and a special thanks to Team Gleason and Mr. Gleason, who continues to advocate on the behalf of others who are battling ALS and other conditions,” said Larson. “I urge Congress to bring this important bill to the floor for passage.” Background: The Enduring Voices Act is named after former NFL player Steve Gleason, who has become a champion of those with ALS after being diagnosed with the disease himself in 2011. After learning about CMS regulatory changes that limited access to speech generation devices for those on Medicare, Mr. Gleason wrote an open letter to Congress and CMS in July of 2014. In September of 2014, more than 200 Members of the House and Senate—Democrats and Republicans—sent a letter to CMS to investigate this arbitrary decision. In July of 2015, the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 was signed into law to protect patient access to speech generating devices. However, those protections are slated to expire October 1, 2018. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act of 2017 would build upon the successes of the 2015 law to permanently protect these medically necessary devices. ###
09.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Brian Higgins (NY-26) announce introduction of the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act. A commonsense effort to create a Medicare Buy-In option for Americans ages 50-64 and to stabilize the health care marketplaces. The Act will provide a new option for Americans ages 50-64 to buy-in to Medicare thus avoiding the increase in premiums that Americans in this age group often face. Additionally, working Americans who receive employer sponsored coverage (ages 50-64) who wish to buy into the program would have the option to do so, and their employers could continue to contribute to their premiums pre-tax, a win-win for those employers and employees. The bill also proposes important common sense solutions to bolster stability in the health care marketplaces and bring down health care costs by finding innovative ways to reduce billions in waste, fraud, and abuse in the health care system. “Throughout the entire health care debate in Congress, all the American people have wanted are common sense solutions. They are sick of partisan politics, and they don’t want to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). I am proud to join with Reps. Courtney and Higgins to develop the Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act, that builds on the successes of the ACA and Medicare to strengthen our health care system,” said Larson. “This proposal will give Americans (ages 50-64) the ability to buy-into Medicare as a quality, affordable, and much-needed coverage option. The Act also aims to cut down on extraneous costs in our current health care system through targeted reforms, and provide a better delivery and quality of care to all Americans.” “When it comes to the current healthcare debate, Americans have been telling congress loud and clear what they want: constructive solutions that can get bipartisan support,” said Courtney. “The ACA was never intended to be the final word on healthcare and Republicans are right that some parts of that bill are now broken, or at least not working as intended. We can agree that ACA needed to be fixed and we should be working together rather than attempting to butcher the bill without putting a new plan in place. The Medicare Buy In and Health Care Stabilization Act provides relief for the higher cost, older population in the individual and small business market, and restores the market stabilizers that Republicans have undermined and caused insurance premiums to spike in 2017 and 2018. Lastly, the bill provides exciting new ways to reduce health care spending by cracking down on fraud and instructs the Department of Health and Human Services to employ tried and true tools to cut costs in the area of prescription drugs. This bill is an important step forward towards a system that provides affordable, high-quality options to all Americans. Rep. Brian Higgins said, “Medicare is an American success story. Prior to the enactment of Medicare almost half of Americans over 65 didn’t have insurance, today nearly all do. For more than 50 years Medicare has proven to provide quality, affordable coverage that Americans like. Expanding the Medicare model to a larger population simply makes sense.” Additional cosponsors of the “Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act” include: Andre Carson (IN-07), David Cicilline (RI-01), Steve Cohen (TN-09), John Delaney (MD-06), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Bill Keating (MA-09), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Don McEachin (VA-04), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), David Price (NC-04), Mike Quigley (IL-05), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Peter Welch (VT), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Ruben Kihuen (NV-04), Grace Napolitano (CA-32), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), John Garamendi (CA-03), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Collin Peterson (MN-07), Jared Polis (CO-02), and Denny Heck (WA-10). ###
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) met with Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin and Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy David Kautter at the Department of the Treasury headquarters in Washington, D.C. to discuss assistance for north-central Connecticut residents impacted by crumbling concrete foundation. The members wrote to the Secretary earlier this summer requesting a meeting to discuss crumbling foundations relief, specifically requesting an IRS “revenue procedure” -- a guidance document that, if approved, would allow homeowners to deduct foundation repair costs from their federal taxes. The Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Policy directs the issuance of these documents, which are then prepared by the IRS. “After meeting with Secretary Mnuchin and his staff today, it is clear that they are engaged on this issue and understand the urgent situation facing residents in Connecticut,” said Larson and Courtney. “After laying the groundwork for possible coordination on crumbling foundations with the National Taxpayer Advocate earlier this year, and the Secretary during an appearance before the House Ways and Means Committee, we are pleased that he took time to meet with us once again to discuss the situation facing homeowners in our districts. “We discussed several possible options for federal assistance through the IRS and the Treasury Department, and we were encouraged by their understanding of the situation facing Connecticut homeowners and commitment to working with us toward a solution. We will continue to work with Treasury and with the IRS as they consider legal issues in the tax code to secure some relief for homeowners. As we have said all along, there is not going to be one silver bullet that solves the entire problem for homeowners. Instead, we need a concerted effort at the municipal, state, and federal levels and this could be an important and valuable piece of the puzzle.” Under current tax law, taxpayers may deduct a casualty loss from their income if they have suffered a sudden loss. Citing the precedent of IRS assistance to homeowners affected by corrosive Chinese drywall in 2010, Courtney and Larson are seeking IRS guidance to allow a casualty deduction related to the longer-term damage suffered by homeowners with crumbling home foundations. Earlier this year, National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson also endorsed this effort, formally submitting a letter of support and outlining how the IRS could construct the details of this policy. The Connecticut Society of CPAs has also lent their support to this effort. ###
09.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after the passing of Luisa DeLauro, the mother of Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). “Luisa DeLauro was a pioneer and a giant amongst the women of her generation. She was the epitome of service above self. Like so many women of her day, she broke down barriers with her persistence, her guile, and her determination. All of those attributes we get see exhibited first hand as exemplified by her daughter, Rosa DeLauro. My thoughts and prayers go out to Rosa, Stan, and the whole DeLauro family, in celebration of an extraordinary life of an extraordinary woman, Luisa DeLauro.” ###
09.08.2017	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that a one year-old New Hartford resident and his family were able to secure a supply of the medicine needed to treat his severe seizures. Christian Mumm suffers from a rare mutation of the KCNQ2 gene. As a result, Christian has severe seizures that restrict his physical and cognitive development and quality of life. Christian has found relief from seizures with the help of the drug Potiga, which is manufactured by GSK. In August 2016, GSK announced it would no longer be producing the drug due to a small user population. Larson learned about the issue the Mumm’s were having with securing a supply of Potiga for Christian and intervened. Larson’s office helped set up an ongoing dialogue between GSK, Christian’s care team and the Mumm family. An agreement was reached and the Mumm family was able secure a supply of Potiga for Christian. “We are all on Team Christian,” said Larson. “I am glad that everybody was able to come together and rally around Christian to find a solution. This was about doing what was morally right to help this little boy. I would like to thank the entire team at GSK, especially Dr. Kate Knobil and James Cooper, Christian’s entire care team at Boston Children’s, especially Dr. Heather Olsen, Dr. Phillip Pearl, and RN Colleen Gagnon, the Hospital for Special Care in New Britian, and Christian’s local community, especially New Hartford Selectwoman Laura Garay and Bill & Anita Baxter for all coming together to find a solution for him. I’d like to commend Erica and Ed Mumm, and their entire family for leading this fight and inspiring us all.” “The journey that ended in securing a supply of Potiga for Christian was one of courage, strength, and persistence for a little boy who could not advocate for himself. Congressman John Larson is clearly a peoples' Congressman. He did not hesitate in embracing Christian, our family, and the greater issue of the importance that orphan drugs have for rare disease and quality of life for those that suffer. We extend the utmost appreciation to Congressman Larson and his team, not only from our family but from families around the nation who may have previously experienced the same devastation that we faced when we were told that an essential drug was being discontinued. We firmly believe that the end result of this challenging experience has set an example of the importance for collaboration between pharmaceutical companies, families, and physicians as the value of a single story should never be discounted, for where there is one, there are many more,” said the Mumm Family. In July 2017, the CT Delegation also wrote a letter to GSK asking them to continue working with the Mumm family for a positive outcome for Christian. The letter can be read here. ###
09.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) received the 2017 Financial Security & Life Insurance Caucuses’ Freedom & Dignity Award from the American Council of Life Insurers, alongside Senator Johnny Isakson (R-GA). “I’d like to thank ACLI for this great honor. As we face a looming retirement crisis, it is more important than ever that Congress advance public policies that promote economic security for all Americans. As a member of the Ways & Means Committee and the Ranking Member on the Social Security Subcommittee, I look forward to working with bipartisan leaders like Senator Isakson on this critical issue. Congress must prioritize policies to help people prepare financially for retirement and to safeguard their loved ones, because nobody should have to retire into poverty or worry about leaving their loved ones with the burden of debts. I’d like to thank Governor Kempthorne and ACLI for the services and education they provide to countless Americans planning for their and their families’ financial futures,” said Larson. *********** The awards were presented on behalf of Americans to Protect Family Security, a partnership of America’s financial advisors, life insurance agents, and life insurance companies that is dedicated to educating policymakers about the role life insurers’ products play in the financial lives of 75 million American families. Coalition members include ACLI, Association for Advanced Life Underwriting (AALU), American Fraternal Alliance (the Alliance), GAMA International, Insured Retirement Institute (IRI), National African American Insurance Association (NAAIA), National Association for Fixed Annuities (NAFA), National Association of Independent Life Brokerage Agencies (NAILBA), National Association of Insurance and Financial Advisors (NAIFA) and Women in Insurance & Financial Services (WIFS). ###
09.06.2017	(Hartford, CT) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced today that Sikorsky has signed a $304 million contract with the U.S. Navy enabling Sikorsky to begin Connecticut construction of the first two production CH-53K “King Stallion” helicopters. The Marine Corps plans to procure 200 of these heavy lift helicopters from Sikorsky. “With this $304 million contract, Connecticut workers can now get to work building the first two production CH-53K helicopters—the premier heavy lift helicopter that will bring significant capability and reliability to our Armed Forces. This helicopter is the future of Sikorsky’s Connecticut production line and will keep high-skilled, good paying jobs in Stratford and across the state for decades to come. We will continue to fight for robust funding for the CH-53K program—keeping Sikorsky’s Connecticut workers on the job and ensuring our service members receive the best technology available,” the delegation stated.
09.06.2017	Thank you, Chairman Johnson, for holding this hearing. Millions of Americans rely on Social Security for basic income when they are retired, or if they become severely disabled and can no longer work. Social Security is also there to help widows and children who have lost a parent. There is no private plan on the market that can compare. Hurricane Harvey has shown just how important Social Security is. Thanks to electronic deposits, most Social Security beneficiaries will still get their payments right on time, and Social Security is working with Treasury and the Postal Service to ensure that those who receive payments by check can get them. Social Security employees are already stationed at disaster assistance stations run by the Red Cross and FEMA. Natural disasters remind us just how important it is to fight back against calls to cut Social Security and, instead, come together in a bipartisan way to make common sense adjustments to strengthen America’s insurance plan and protect the benefits Americans’ have earned and rely on. Both the Chairman and I have offered comprehensive plans to address the long-term shortfall in the Social Security system, so that Americans can continue to count on these benefits for generations to come. While differing in our approaches, I hope we will be able to have a hearing out in Texas or elsewhere in the country to discuss our different approaches to Social Security right there with the American public. But today’s hearing is focused on the problem of record-high delays in processing disability applications. Since 2010, the number of beneficiaries has grown by 13 percent as the baby boomers reach retirement age, but Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by more than 10 percent, after accounting for inflation. This has made it difficult, even impossible, for Social Security to serve our constituents promptly, when they need help the most. There are delays throughout the Social Security Administration, but today’s hearing is focused on the lengthy waits for a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) who can decide on a disability benefit appeal. These hearings are important – it is the first time an applicant gets to meet face-to-face with an examiner. In many instances, these hearings are the first time the Social Security Administration has the applicant’s complete medical evidence in hand and applicants can seek help from an attorney or a professional, which is important given how complex the law is in this area. But so far this year, the wait for a hearing is 600 days. This is a record high – or a record low in service to our constituents. I want to tell you about the impact of these delays on one of my constituents. Ms. V was a preschool teacher from Connecticut. She was in an explosion that destroyed her home and burned half of her body. In addition to the burns, she developed PTSD and a facial pain disorder. She filed for Social Security disability in March 2015, but was turned down. She appealed and did not get a hearing until June 2017. It took almost 3 more months for her to get the award notice, and she is still waiting for her benefits to start. While she waited, she sold her car to meet expenses, and had to turn to her church and some relatives just to get by. Ms. V. is one of the luckier ones – she has only been waiting for two and a half years. She did not become homeless, she did not commit suicide, she did not die from her condition while awaiting benefits. Many others have. This problem has been building for years, yet we’ve had no hearings in the last two Congresses about it. That is why I thank the Chairman again for holding a hearing on such an important problem that has affected people across the country. The culprit is years of inadequate funding for Social Security’s operational budget. This budget shortage has come at a particularly bad time – given the temporary increase in applications that happened during the Great Recession, plus the aging of the baby boomer population. There is no way for the Social Security Administration’s dedicated employees to keep up with rising numbers of beneficiaries in light of falling funding, even with additional efficiencies from IT investments and prioritizing its workloads. Good management on the part of the Social Security Administration and its employees is critical, but there is no substitute for having enough Administrative Law Judges, attorneys and other support staff to gather evidence, review it carefully against eligibility criteria, and make a decision. I’d like to refer to this chart, showing the waiting times for Disability Benefit Appeals from 1986 to 2017. You’ll see that the current waiting time is now at 600 days. But I’d like to refer you back to 2008-2010 when Congress provided the Social Security Administration with adequate administrative funding. What happened in the subsequent years? The waiting times fell to 360 days in 2011 and to 353 in 2012. We must ensure that adequate staffing levels are a part of any backlog reduction plan. With that, I thank the Chairman for calling today’s hearing and I look forward to hearing from all our witnesses. ###
09.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Trump Administration would be ending Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) by phasing the program out in 6 months. “DREAMers were brought here as minors through no fault of their own, and have attended our schools, worked in our communities and have abided by the strict rules of the DACA program. Instead of supporting them, and allowing them to continue on a path towards citizenship, President Trump is stripping 800,000 young people of their legal status. In addition, this will have an enormous effect on our economy. There are 10,000 DACA recipients in CT. If these young people are no longer able to work, and contribute to the CT economy, we can expect an annual GDP loss of $315 million. This decision by the Trump Administration is unnecessary, cruel and harmful. Congress must act now to provide relief for DREAMers. I stand ready to work with my colleagues on a fix and call on Speaker Ryan to act quickly on a solution. I support the efforts of Senators Durbin and Graham in the Senate and its counterpart in the House introduced by Rep. Roybal-Allard. I plan on cosponsoring the Dream Act of 2017. We need to pass legislation to make DACA permanent for DREAMers,” said Larson. On August 1st, Larson joined over 100 colleagues on a letter urging President Trump to continue DACA. The letter can be viewed here. ###
08.22.2017	[WASHINGTON, DC] – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation wrote U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Tom Price today urging the Administration to permanently fund the cost-sharing reductions (CSRs) that are central to the stability and affordability of the individual marketplaces created under the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) announced August 15 that President Trump’s refusal to fund CSRs would lead to a 20 percent spike in health insurance premiums and would increase the federal deficit by almost $200 billion. President Trump has continued to play politics with Americans’ healthcare, threatening each month to refuse funding for CSRs sowing instability in the ACA marketplaces. Although President Trump announced last week he would fund CSRs for the month of August, continued uncertainty could contribute to substantial premium increases for American consumers. The Trump Administration has yet to announce if they will continue to make these payments, placing severe burdens on the healthcare market and consumers. “As Connecticut works to finalize rates for next year and insurers make decisions on whether or not to remain on Connecticut’s exchange, it is essential that the Trump administration stop playing political games with the affordability and stability of our health insurance market. We urge you to immediately and permanently fund cost-sharing reductions at least through the end of 2018 so insurers in Connecticut and around the country have the certainty they need to operate effectively on ACA exchanges,” wrote the Delegation. The delegation’s full letter is copied below. August 22, 2017 Secretary Tom Price U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, Southwest Washington, D.C. 20201 Dear Secretary Price, We write with immediate concerns regarding statements and actions made by the Trump Administration about the continued payment of critical cost-sharing reductions (CSRs). These statements have caused deep uncertainty for insurers and the American public, resulting in proposed premium increases that are far higher than necessary. We request firm and immediate assurances that CSRs to insurers will continue uninterrupted at least through the end of 2018. Providing this necessary certainty will protect consumers from needless premium hikes and give insurers the information they need to continue offering Marketplace plans. Failure to do so will increase costs, decrease consumer choice, and irreparably damage the individual insurance market. The Affordable Care Act (ACA), by nearly all measures, has been a success. Millions of Americans have access to health insurance for the first time and new protections guarantee that the most vulnerable among us will not be denied coverage or bankrupted because of a medical condition. While we continue to work in good faith to address the shortcomings of the ACA, it goes without saying that the law has moved us towards a dramatically more equitable and accessible health care system, saving countless lives along the way. This is why the continued efforts by the Trump administration to sabotage the ACA for political reasons are dangerous and costly, with the American people ultimately bearing the full brunt of these reckless and ill-advised attempts. Each month, the Administration plays chicken with the payment of CSRs, in what is seemingly a purposeful attempt to sow instability in the ACA marketplaces. In fact, some insurers have already factored the uncertainty on cost-sharing reduction payments into their plans for 2018. An analysis recently released by the Kaiser Family Foundation lays this out bluntly, finding that “[s]ome insurers explicitly factor this uncertainty into their initial premium requests, while other companies say if they do not receive more clarity or if cost-sharing payments stop, they plan to either refile with higher premiums or withdraw from the market.” This is true in Connecticut, and if premiums do increase and insurers flee the market, the needless uncertainty created by the Trump administration will be to blame. Worse yet, if the Trump administration does discontinue CSR payments, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that more Americans will live in a place where no insurers offer a nongroup plan, the federal deficit would increase by billions, and premiums would rise by 20 percent next year alone. As Connecticut works to finalize rates for next year and insurers make decisions on whether or not to remain on Connecticut’s exchange, it is essential that the Trump administration stop playing political games with the affordability and stability of our health insurance market. We urge you to immediately and permanently fund cost-sharing reductions at least through the end of 2018 so insurers in Connecticut and around the country have the certainty they need to operate effectively on ACA exchanges. Due to the urgency of this situation, we request a response regarding cost-sharing reduction payments by September 1, 2017. ###
08.21.2017	Washington, D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump’s announcement on his plan for the United States' involvement in Afghanistan: “The War in Afghanistan has been the United States’ longest running war, lasting for 16 years. It has been over a decade since the first Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF) was authorized by Congress in 2001. It is Congress' responsibility to debate and authorize of use of military force. As I have called for before, it is time for Congress to have this debate again. It appears the President and his advisors have given a lot of thought to his plan, but that thought should also be debated and shared in Congress. When it comes to putting our troops in harms way and all the ramifications of that entails, it is Congress who must authorize the power. This debate must include both the extent of the use of force and what the exit strategy is. "I would like to commend President Trump on his recognition of the sacrifices our brave men and women have made, but that is precisely why we need to make sure that we have a clear strategy. The President has laid out a plan, but did not mention an exit strategy and that needs to be debated. President Trump also pointed out that we need to address Pakistan, their involvement and our response in this conflict. I agree, but believe this needs to be a part of the congressional debate. It is time for my colleagues to unify our efforts in order to clear the safest path to return for our brave men and women home, as they deserve a thorough, debated plan with a clear strategy." ###
08.18.2017	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding his decision to sign on to a House Resolution that would censure President Trump that was introduced by Reps. Nadler, Watson Coleman and Jayapal. “The President’s equivocation of torch-bearing neo-Nazis, KKK members, and other white supremacists who organized the rally with those who counter protested was morally bankrupt. As Mitt Romney stated, the President “should address the American people, acknowledge that he was wrong, (and) apologize”, for his false equivocation and continuing to insist that “both sides” were to blame for the murder and violence in Charlottesville." said Larson.
08.15.2017	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released for the following statement: “Today’s report from the nonpartisan, Congressional Budget Office (CBO) reveals the consequences of the Trump Administration’s continued threats to stop payments of the cost-sharing reductions (CSRs). There are no upsides to the Trump Administration discontinuing these payments, it will only result in higher premiums, add to the deficit, and further drive insurers out of the marketplaces, leaving the American people with fewer options for health insurance. Having failed at taking health care away from millions of Americans, the Administration and Congress must move forward to build upon the success of the Affordable Care, rather than seeking to tear it down. I call on President Trump to stop playing politics and do what is right for the American people.” The CBO’s analysis shows premiums will rise 20 percent for 2018 and upwards of $194 billion will be added to federal budget deficit in the coming decade if the Administration stops these essential payments.
08.15.2017	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the anniversary of Social Security: “Yesterday we recognized the 82nd anniversary of the signing of the Social Security Act into law by Franklin D. Roosevelt. Social Security is the nation’s insurance program,” said Larson. “It has provided a foundation of economic security for generations of Americans insuring against the loss of income in old age, disability, or the death of a loved one. These are benefits that have been earned by working Americans who contribute to the system through every paycheck. Social Security has made this country a better place for its citizens and I am committed to ensuring that it stays strong for another 82 years and beyond. That is why I am proud to be the author of the Social Security 2100 Act, which expands its benefits and keeps the system solvent through the century.” Read here on Social Security 2100. ###
08.14.2017	Hartford, CT - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement condemning the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia: “This outbreak of violence that took place in Charlottesville was clearly an act of domestic terrorism and should be prosecuted to the fullest under the federal criminal code – 18 U.S.C. Section 2331(5). My thoughts and prayers are with the family of Heather Heyer, and with those who were injured in this despicable attack. Attorney Jeff Sessions is right to fully pursue all avenues in investigating and prosecuting those who commit violent hate crimes and acts of terrorism. “I was deeply troubled by President Trump’s false equivalence that he initially gave to this terrorist incident, and not specifically condemning the racist, white supremacist groups that perpetuated the violence. Republicans and Democrats stand united in denouncing David Duke and the white supremacist groups,” said Larson. “Today, the President said many of the things that should have been said in the immediate aftermath of the violence. David Duke has said that he and his groups believe they are taking the country back, like Donald Trump promised. The President must forcefully and continually disassociate himself and denounce these domestic hate groups who seem to act in his name. That is the only way to make it clear to the nation that he, as President of the United States, represents all Americans.” ###
08.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Rep. John Larson (CT-01) sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell asking them to call Congress back into session to deal with the escalating situation with North Korea. "The events that have transpired this week, the bellicose threats from Kim Jong Un and the President’s response, have the nation in a state of high anxiety. All around the country, people are talking about the potential threat of war. Congress is the branch of government closest to the people, and it needs to assert its Constitutional role under Article I, Section 8, and provide a unified response to Kim Jong Un. Congress needs to be involved, briefed and informed. In the same way we acted in unison with sanctions, we must do so with the threat of war as well," said Larson in the letter. The full letter can be viewed here. ###
08.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1) and Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin applauded the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) on Thursday for awarding a $2.8 million grant to help build a food-focused business incubator and manufacturing facility at the Swift Factory complex in North Hartford. The project – which will be called the Swift Community Food and Business Development Center – is expected to create 125 jobs and spur $9.75 million in private investment. North Hartford receives priority consideration for federal grants like this as a result of their Promise Zone designation. The nearly $3 million grant will build on the city’s Promise Zone initiative to create jobs and boost economic activity in the community. Blumenthal said, “This major investment will help bring new life and vitality to the old Swift Factory—attracting new jobs and investment to the North End. These dollars help fulfill the promise by the federal government that it would be a true partner in bringing jobs and opportunity to the North End. I will continue to work closely with community leaders to ensure the Promise Zone designation continues to provide tangible, lasting change for the neighborhood and its residents.” “This is exactly the kind of investment North Hartford needs. This $2.8 million grant will help transform the old Swift Factory into new working space for Hartford businesses. It’ll create jobs and help spur more private investments throughout the neighborhood in the process,” said Murphy. “I fought hard to get North Hartford designated as a Promise Zone because I’ve always believed that the neighborhood and its hardworking residents show a ton of promise. Washington is finally starting to see it that way too.” Larson said, “I applaud the work of Community Solutions and the North End of Hartford for building a new food and business development center at the Swift Factory complex. The creation of new jobs, support for innovative local start-ups, and the millions of dollars in private investment it will attract will complement all the workforce development efforts the North End has doubled down on since its Promise Zone designation. I am proud to support local entrepreneurs who are creating jobs in the North End." “The Swift factory was a vital part of Hartford’s economy and the Northeast community for over a century,” said Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin. “We are excited that it will be reborn – more than a decade after it closed – as a hub for innovative food-focused businesses. This is a significant investment that will complement the broader campaign to revitalize the North Hartford Promise Zone. I want to thank our entire Congressional delegation, as well as City staff, for their tremendous work in helping to secure this grant.” Roseanne Haggerty, President of Community Solutions, the organization leading the project at Swift Factory, said, "Community Solutions is very pleased to receive this award, which will support the redevelopment of the Swift Factory and bring more than 125 jobs to the community. We are grateful for the leadership of Mayor Bronin, Senator Murphy and our whole congressional delegation in bringing economic development resources to spur business innovation and local job creation in the North End. We look forward to beginning construction in the coming weeks." ###
08.08.2017	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the America Wins Act, a $1 trillion proposal to rebuild the nation’s crumbling infrastructure and to create millions of jobs for the middle class over the next decade. “At a time when the American people are yearning for solutions, we have an extraordinary opportunity to put the country to work rebuilding our infrastructure. As a nation, we have spent trillions of dollars overseas while other countries have invested in their infrastructure. Meanwhile, our infrastructure – once the envy of the world – has fallen into a state of disrepair. The American Society of Civil Engineers recently gave our infrastructure a grade of ‘D+’ – that is simply unacceptable. I am introducing the America Wins Act in order to repair our crumbling roads and bridges and to jump start transformative projects that can solve our infrastructure challenges. This is a jobs program for the middle class and it is fully paid for without adding to the national debt. It is time to invest in our infrastructure and invest in America,” said Larson. “We hear a lot about infrastructure proposals, but the discussion usually stops when it is time to talk about how to pay for it. Congressman Larson’s plan doesn’t stop short. It actually starts with a long-term dedicated funding source that will provide robust funding for core programs.” said Don Shubert, president of the Connecticut Construction Industries Association. “We have an opportunity to rebuild our infrastructure and to put America back to work. The time to pass this legislation is now,” said Ted Grabowski, president of CT Laborers, Local 230. The America Wins Act will provide a dedicated revenue stream of $1 trillion over 10 years to invest in all types of infrastructure from roads, bridges, tunnels, transit systems, rail, airports, clean drinking water, levees, broadband, and energy transmission. A study by the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) estimates that the U.S. is currently facing a $2 trillion infrastructure funding gap over the next 10 years. ASCE concluded that if we fail to make the necessary investments in our infrastructure, we will lose 2.5 million jobs and $3.9 trillion in GDP by 2025. Another study by Standard & Poor’s concluded that every $1.3 billion invested in our infrastructure results in 29,000 construction jobs alone and adds $2 billion to our GDP. Based on these figures, the America Wins Act would create up to 22 million constructions jobs over 10 years. The America Wins Act would: • Invest $1 trillion in nation’s infrastructure over 10 years • Provide transitional assistance for coal country, including pensions • Provide a consumer tax rebate to the American people • Reduce harmful pollution to promote clean air and public health This bill is fully paid without adding to the national debt. The America Wins Act is estimated to raise $1.8 trillion in total over 10 years through an upstream tax on the carbon-content of fossil fuels such as coal, oil, and natural gas. All of the revenue raised will be placed in a trust fund, administered by US Treasury, in order to be solely used for investing in the nation’s infrastructure, providing the American people with a consumer tax rebate, and dedicated funding for carbon-intensive industries such as coal workers. To learn more about the proposal please visit: https://larson.house.gov/issues/america-wins-act ###
08.01.2017	(Hartford,CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) applauded a $300,000 grant to the Wheeler Clinic from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Office on Women’s Health. The funding-- $100,000 per year for three years-- will support the Connecticut Opioid Misuse Prevention (COMP) Initiative and expand in-person and online training for up to 4,500 prevention professionals, pediatric care primary providers and professionals who work or volunteer with adolescent girls. “The opioid epidemic is devastating our communities, and unfortunately, no one is immune. This funding will ensure that teen girls have the resources and care they need to prevent and treat substance misuse. We applaud today’s funding and remain hopeful that the federal dollars will bring us one step closer towards ending this epidemic. We’re fortunate to have the Wheeler Clinic in Connecticut, and this grant is a testament to the exceptional care that is provided to families and individuals across the state.” With over 30 locations across the state, the Wheeler Clinic provides primary care and behavioral health services for more than 30,000 individuals in Connecticut each year. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. John B. Larson, (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Brian Higgins (NY-26) announced the “Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act”, a bill that improves on the successes of the Medicare program and provides Americans (ages 50-64) a new option for affordable, quality healthcare. The Act will offer people in this age group the new option to buy-in to Medicare thus avoiding the increase in premiums that older Americans often face. Additionally, working Americans who receive employer sponsored coverage (ages 50-64) who wish to buy into the program would have the option to do so, and their employers could continue to contribute to their premiums pre-tax, a win-win for those employers and employees. The bill also proposes important common sense solutions to bolster stability in the health care marketplaces and by investing in innovative ways to reduce potentially billions in waste, fraud, and abuse, especially in the Medicare system that 57 million Americans have paid into. “In public events and town halls across the country, the American people have spoken up and demanded solutions. They have rejected ACA repeal and they have rejected partisan bickering. That is why I have joined with Reps. Higgins and Courtney to develop a simple and commonsense solution that offers one path forward to strengthen our health care system. This proposal will give Americans (ages 50-64) the ability to buy-into Medicare as a quality, affordable coverage option,” said Rep. Larson. “Additionally, through targeted reforms focused on improving the quality and delivery of care, we are looking to the future to strengthen the long-term solvency of Medicare, and the health care system overall.”Rep. Courtney said, “With the demise of “repeal” which was structured from day 1 as a hyper partisan Republican exercise, it is time Congress listens to what the American people have been saying loud and clear for several years. We need to work together to fix the weaknesses in the ACA rather than butcher it. The Medicare Buy In and Health Care Stabilization Act provides relief for the higher cost, older population in the individual and small business market, and restores the market stabilizers that Republicans have undermined and to caused insurance premiums to spike in 2017 and 2018. Lastly, the bill provides exciting new ways to reduce health care spending by cracking down on fraud and instructs the Department of Health and Human Services to employ tried and true tools to cut costs in the area of prescription drugs. This bill not only does not add to the deficit, but it will, in fact, save money for America’s taxpayers.” “For more than 50 years Medicare has been a reliable, efficient, and popular healthcare delivery system for older Americans and it is time to build on healthcare that works,” said Rep. Higgins. “Americans pay too much for health care and still the country ranks near the bottom, among similar sized nations, in quality for its investment. This legislation would allow us to leverage the purchasing power of the millions of people to deliver better care at lower costs.” Additional cosponsors of the “Medicare Buy-In and Health Care Stabilization Act” include: Rep. Peter Welch (VT-At Large), Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2), Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-9), Rep. David Cicilline (RI-1), Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20), Rep. Jim McGovern (MA-2), Rep. Tim Ryan (OH-13), Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-4) and Rep. Ted Deutch (FL-22).
07.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John B. Larson (CT-01) warned of a new fraud scheme targeting Social Security beneficiaries. The Social Security Administration’s Inspector General last week issued a notification that there have been reports of individuals impersonating Social Security Administration officials or Office of the Inspector General employees, who are making phone calls to beneficiaries to gather their personal information in order to divert their benefits to a different bank account. The callers have been known to use a supposed increase to the beneficiaries’ Cost Of Living Adjustment (COLA) as a cover to gather their information. “This new scheme to defraud Social Security beneficiaries of their earned benefits is outrageous and must be stopped. We ask all beneficiaries to remain vigilant with their personal information. If you are receiving Social Security benefits and are called to give your bank account number, Social Security number, or any other personal information, and are unsure of the caller’s credentials; hang up and call your local Social Security office to verify this request,” said Larson. “I urge beneficiaries to be cautious when speaking about your personal information, especially if the request is unsolicited and over the phone. If you feel you have been contacted for fraudulent reasons, please feel free to report the incident to the information listed below.” For more information, the Social Security’s toll-free customer service number is 1-800-772-1213, and the hours are 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., Monday through Friday. If you or a loved one receives a suspicious call from someone alleging to be from the Social Security Administration, citizens may report that information to the Office of Inspector General at 1-800-269-0271 or online via https://oig.ssa.gov/report. Those who are deaf or hard-of-hearing can call Social Security’s TTY number at 1-800-325-0778. Rep. Larson is committed to protecting Americans from fraud. He and Social Security Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson recently introduced the Social Security Must Avert Identity Loss (MAIL) Act (H.R. 1513) to require the Social Security Administration to remove beneficiaries’ Social Security numbers from mailed notices, as one way to limit beneficiaries’ exposure to fraud and abuse.
07.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) welcomed the Pratt & Whitney’s PurePower Geared TurboFan (GTF) commercial engine to the U.S. Capitol. “Pratt & Whitney’s PurePower Geared TurboFan (GTF) Engine represents the future of commercial aviation and Connecticut is at the forefront of this game-changing technology. This is truly a story of American manufacturing success and innovation. Just last year, the GTF engine contributed $233 million to our Connecticut manufacturing supply chains,” said Larson. “After 20 years of research and development, the cutting edge technology behind the GTF engine has raised the industry benchmark through significant improvements in fuel efficiency, noise reduction, and reduced emissions. The surging global demand for this engine, as indicated by the 8,000 order backlog, means a sustained economic boost for Connecticut and the creation of thousands of jobs and the support of hundreds of small and medium size businesses that comprise the backbone of our State’s industrial base. “I am immensely proud to welcome the men and women of Pratt & Whitney who made this vision a reality, and I am honored to welcome this incredible engine here today.” ###
07.19.2017	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $315,000 in funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to help support Connecticut’s response to the opioid overdose epidemic. The funding, under the Enhanced State Surveillance of Opioid-Involved Morbidity and Mortality (ESSOS) program, will be used to develop and adapt surveillance systems to address the rising rate of opioid-related overdoses, with a specific focus on heroin and synthetic opioids such as illicitly manufactured fentanyl. “Unfortunately, we know the scourge of the opioid epidemic in Connecticut and the growing presence of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids on our streets. At alarming rates, families and communities are being ripped apart after every tragic overdose, and we’ve heard loud and clear that more must be done,” said the delegation. “These much-needed federal dollars will go towards efforts to help curb the rising rates of opioid-related overdoses-- including those triggered by deadly synthetic opioids-- and are a step in the right direction towards ending this devastating, harrowing epidemic.” For this round of funding, the CDC awarded more than $12 million to 23 states nationwide. The CDC expects to announce additional funding later this summer. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after a hearing on the 2017 Social Security Trustees Report with Chief Actuary, Steve Goss: "Social Security is America's insurance program, and millions rely on the benefits they have earned when they retire, should they become disabled, or for their survivors. Social Security is the insurance that Americans have paid for with every paycheck and are therefore entitled to its benefits. The 2017 Social Security Trustees Report released yesterday shows that Social Security has $2.8 trillion in reserves and remains an important lifeline for 61 million Americans. Given the importance and economic impact of Social Security, Congress shouldn't wait until 2034 to act to strengthen the system. “That is why I have introduced the Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902) to enhance Social Security benefits and ensure that that it remains solvent into the next century. This plan will improve the cost of living adjustment (COLA) to provide seniors with the financial boost they need in retirement and does so without raising the national debt. It will ensure that no one retires into poverty and asks millionaires and billionaires to pay their fair share. The Social Security 2100 Act (H.R. 1902) has the support of over 160 cosponsors. The time for action is now. Congress should come together to strengthen America's insurance program for the future." To watch the full hearing, please click here. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). “First District businesses up and down the supply chain for vital programs like the F-35, Virginia class submarines, and military helicopter programs that help keep our military the best in the world, will benefit tremendously from this legislation. This legislation not only supports the extraordinary work done by the workers at our large companies like Pratt and Whitney, but hundreds of suppliers across the district including small businesses like Horst Engineering, in East Hartford, Flanagan Industries in Glastonbury, ACMT in Manchester, and MB Aerospace in East Granby. These are just four examples of the nearly 160 companies in the First District that benefit from the passing of the NDAA, which will enhance funding for the Connecticut-made aircraft engines, submarines, and helicopters ensuring that our military maintains an unmatched supremacy in the air and in the sea. “In the First Congressional District alone, work on the F-35 is supporting nearly 4,000 jobs and is resulting in $338 million in economic activity this year. The First District is also a supplier of the Navy’s submarine programs representing $209 million in purchase orders this year and 32 suppliers of our military’s helicopter programs representing $95 million. The NDAA builds on this activity and it continues the momentum for Connecticut’s manufacturing ecosystem,” said Larson. “I commend the bipartisan process to create this defense package that will strengthen our nation’s armed forces, provide a pay increase for our troops, and equip them with the right tools to carry out their mission.” Highlights of Connecticut's priorities in the FY 2018 NDAA: •$13.2 billion to purchase 87 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters; 17 more than Pentagon requested. •$2 billion for advance procurement of B-21 Long Range Strike Bomber •$3.3 billion to fully fund 2 Virginia-class submarines in FY2018 and $2.8 billion in advanced procurement. •$2.9 billion for 18 KC-46A Tankers •$842.8 million for advanced procurement of Ohio Replacement Program •$1.2 billion for 53 UH-60 Blackhawks •$567.6 million for purchase 4 CH-53K Heavy Lift Helicopters •$354.5 million for advance procurement of Combat Rescue Helicopter •$108.6 million for advance procurement of UH-1N replacement •$38.7 million for procurement and $451.9 million in development of VH-92A Presidential Helicopter •$7 million for construction of Bradley Terminal ###
07.14.2017	Thank you, Chairman Johnson, for holding this hearing. Millions of Americans rely on Social Security for basic income when they are retired, or if they become severely disabled and can no longer work. Social Security is also there to help widows and children who have lost a parent. There is no private plan on the market that can compare. Americans also know that Social Security is an insurance plan – not an entitlement. They have earned these benefits with every paycheck and know they can count on them. That is why we must fight back against misinformation that Social Security is bankrupt and won’t be there for future generations. That is simply not true. We must fight back against calls to make cuts to Social Security and, instead, come together in a bipartisan way to make common sense adjustments to strengthen America’s insurance plan and protect the benefits Americans’ have earned and rely on. The Trustees Report shows that Social Security can pay full benefits for the next 17 years, until about 2034. But even after that time – and even if Congress makes no changes, which of course we always have done and would again -- the insurance premiums workers pay in the form of payroll taxes would still be able to cover three-quarters of benefits due. That is good news. Again -- I do not think Congress will fail to take action to protect Americans’ earned benefits and prevent cuts. But we should not wait until 2034 to do so. Both the Chairman and I have offered comprehensive plans to address the long-term shortfall in the Social Security system. While differing in their approaches, I hope we will be able to have a hearing out in Texas or elsewhere in the country to discuss our different approaches to Social Security right there with the American public. The new report also shows that Social Security has accumulated more than $2.8 trillion in its reserves, which will be used in future years to help pay for benefits. In the meantime, the most immediate problem facing Social Security is the failure by Congress to provide a sufficient budget for the Social Security Administration to serve our constituents – workers and beneficiaries alike. Since 2010, the number of beneficiaries has grown by 13 percent as the baby boomers reach retirement age, but Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by more than 10 percent, after accounting for inflation. This is causing real harm to people in my district in Connecticut, and across the country. People are waiting longer and longer for appointments at local field offices. Most callers to the 800-number can’t get through to an agent. And delays for disability benefits are at an unprecedented high: 605 days this year. That is fully two months longer than last year. In the meantime, severely ill and injured workers lose their savings, their homes, and sometimes even their lives as they go years without income or health care. Congress has a duty and an obligation to the beneficiaries to do better. I thank Chairman Johnson for holding this hearing and look forward to hearing from the Chief Actuary, Steve Goss. ###
07.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the 2017 Social Security Trustees Report: “The Social Security Trustees Report released today confirms that even without any changes, Social Security can pay full benefits until 2034, and about three-quarters of benefits thereafter. The report also underscores the imperative for Congress to come together to make modest adjustments which will protect future retirees, survivors, veterans and persons with severe disabilities, and to strengthen the Trust Fund without cutting benefits. “Today, fewer and fewer workers have traditional pensions from their employers, and many are unable to save enough through other retirement vehicles, which is leading to a growing retirement crisis. Let us remember that Social Security is not an entitlement, it is an insurance program that people pay into to provide for themselves and their survivors. Strengthening and expanding Social Security benefits must be a part of any solution to America’s retirement crisis. That is why I have introduced a bill to increase Social Security benefits and to keep the Trust Fund financially strong into the next century. “The Social Security 2100 Act HR 1902 was introduced this past April and has over 160 cosponsors. This bill will improve benefits for current and future retirees and make common sense changes to keep the Trust Fund strong. It improves the cost of living adjustment (COLA) to better reflect the higher costs seniors face, provides an across-the-board benefit bump for both current and future beneficiaries, increases the minimum benefit to assist people who worked for many years at modest wages, and provides tax relief for seniors who pay income taxes on their benefits. It also ensures that millionaires and billionaires pay into the fund at the same rate as everyone else. Congress should come together to enhance benefits and strengthen Social Security for generations to come.” ###
06.30.2017	(Hartford, CT)- Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced two grants from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) totaling $35,602,295. HUD’s Public Housing Capital Fund will award $23,027,295 for the development, financing, and modernization of public housing developments and for management improvements for housing authorities throughout the state. In addition, HUD’s Lead Based Paint Hazard Control program will award $12,575,000 to Hartford, Bridgeport, Waterbury and the State of Connecticut to identify and control lead-based paint and other home health and safety hazards in eligible privately owned housing. “These critical federal dollars will help update, improve, and protect housing for Connecticut families, children, and seniors—making countless homes more modern, safe, and healthy places to live and grow. From repairs and renovations to detecting lead hazards, the grants announced today will make a longstanding, positive impact in neighborhoods from Bridgeport to Brooklyn. We applaud HUD for their continued investment in our communities and will continue to fight to protect and preserve this funding from any ruthless cuts for years to come,” said the delegation. The delegation has steadfastly opposed President Trump’s proposed 13% overall cut to HUD’s budget, including a proposed $1.3 billion cut from the Public Housing Capital Fund. The breakdown of the funding is below: Lead Based Paint Hazard Control- $12,575,000 State of Connecticut- The State of Connecticut will be awarded $3 million in Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant program funding and $400,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. The State will address lead hazards in 232 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. The State will also perform healthy homes assessments in 232 units and remediation in 95 units. City of Hartford- The City of Hartford will be awarded $3 million in Lead Hazard Reduction Demonstration grant program funding and $400,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. The City of Hartford will address lead hazards in 197 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. City of Bridgeport- The City of Bridgeport will be awarded $2.5 million in Lead Based Paint Hazard Control grant program funding and $375,000in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. The City will address lead hazards in 150 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. City of Waterbury- The City of Waterbury will be awarded $2.5 million in Lead Based Paint Hazard Control grant program funding and $400,000 in Healthy Homes Supplemental funding. The City will address lead hazards in 165 housing units providing safer homes for low and very low-income families with children. Public Housing Capital Fund Program- $23,027,295 Housing Authority of the City of Bridgeport $4,011,186.00 Housing Authority Of The City Of Norwalk $1,310,296.00 Housing Authority of the City of Hartford $1,828,473.00 Housing Authority of the City of New Haven $3,350,860.00 Housing Authority of the City of New Haven $243,468.00 Housing Authority of the CIty of New Britain $1,174,872.00 Waterbury Housing Authority $1,344,339.00 Housing Authority of the City of Stamford $972,336.00 Middletown Housing Authority $416,485.00 Willimantic Housing Authority $387,387.00 Housing Authority of the City of Meriden $807,859.00 East Hartford Housing Authority $810,576.00 Housing Authority of the City of Ansonia $409,548.00 Norwich Housing Authority $206,143.00 Greenwich Housing Authority $460,714.00 Housing Authority of the City of Danbury $511,583.00 Housing Authority of the City of Danbury $37,670.00 New London Housing Authority $263,618.00 Bristol Housing Authority $719,998.00 Putnam Housing Authority $234,047.00 Winchester Housing Authority $114,469.00 Manchester Housing Authority $387,118.00 Housing Authority of the Town of Stratford $439,648.00 Vernon Housing Authority $275,587.00 West Haven Housing Authority $732,926.00 Milford Redevelopment Housing Partnership $372,139.00 Torrington Housing Authority $365,539.00 Windsor Locks Housing Authority $78,261.00 Housing Authority of the Town of Seymour $103,602.00 Portland Housing Authority $75,793.00 Housing Authority of the Town of Glastonbury $330,607.00 Naugatuck Housing Authority $181,034.00 New Canaan Housing Authority $26,337.00 Bloomfield Housing Authority $26,979.00 Housing Authority of the Town of Brooklyn $15,798.00 -30-
06.29.2017	Thank you, Chairman Johnson and Chairman Buchanan for holding this hearing. I’d like to say welcome back to Chairman Johnson; it is my hope that one day we can hold a field hearing on Social Security in Plano, Texas. Perhaps we can ask our staffs to get together to make this a reality and take the Ways & Means Committee directly to the people, your constituents in the great state of Texas. Social Security is important to all Americans. I dare you to find a plan on the private market that provides the same guaranteed retirement income that cannot be outlived, protection in the event of a career-ending disability, life insurance for the families of a worker who dies, and full Cost of Living Adjustments to combat the effects of inflation. Social Security is also fully portable as workers move between jobs. Today, 94 percent of workers in the U.S. are covered by Social Security. They and their employers contribute to the Trust Fund and earn their benefits with every paycheck, with half of the contributions coming from the employee and half from the employer. But it is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that they are in compliance with payroll taxes. The only large group of workers that are outside of Social Security are some state and local government workers, who have their own pension plan in place of Social Security. About three-quarters of state and local workers participate in Social Security, but about a quarter don’t. In my own state of Connecticut, teachers have a separate retirement plan and are not participating in Social Security. But they have an alternative plan that they pay for. Regardless – the fundamental principle is that one way or the other, every American should have basic retirement coverage at work. Our job today is to make sure this is the case. For the 90,000 units of state or local government in the U.S., it can be complicated sometimes to determine which employees are participating in Social Security, and who pays in to the state plan. But when mistakes are made, workers’ financial security is at stake. That is why this hearing today is important. We here in Congress must guard these protections. That’s why I’ve introduced my bill to expand and strengthen Social Security – the Social Security 2100 Act. That is why I am glad our two Subcommittees have come together for this important hearing. Congress must also do its part to ensure that state and local governments are complying with the rules, by making sure the Internal Revenue Service has the tools and resources needed to make sure that taxes are being paid correctly, and that workers are earning the benefits they are counting on for retirement. I look forward to hearing from today’s witnesses and thank Chairmen Johnson & Buchanan, and Ranking Member Lewis for addressing this issue in a bipartisan manner. ###
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Reps. John Larson (D-CT) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) recently introduced the Philanthropic Enterprise Act, which would make it easier for private sector companies to contribute to philanthropic causes in their communities, the country, and around the globe. “This bipartisan bill is an example of how the tax code can support, rather than stand as a barrier to innovative, socially-responsible organizations like Connecticut’s Newman’s Own, who since their inception has proudly operated under the philosophy of 100 percent of their profits going towards charitable foundations and causes,” said Rep. Larson. “I am proud to introduce this bill alongside my friend Rep. Reichert to support businesses across the nation who are dedicated to promoting the social good.” “Many businesses are motivated to help their communities and tackle some of the greatest issues facing the world today,” said Rep. Reichert. “But our current tax code is making it difficult to do so. The Philanthropic Enterprise Act would reduce these tax barriers and better allow cause-driven enterprises to take on philanthropic roles, strengthening their contributions to society. I am proud to work with my colleague, Rep. Larson, to create an environment where businesses can do well by doing good.” ###
06.27.2017	Washington D.C. – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined the disability community in applauding the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) decision to exclude Complex Rehabilitation Technologies (CRT) power wheelchairs accessories from the competitive bidding programs. CMS’ original decision to reduce payments for CRT wheelchair accessories would have harmed patients with severe disabilities due to ALS, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis and other debilitating illnesses or injuries. Larson is a lead sponsor of H.R. 1361, which would help protect Medicare beneficiaries’ access to specialized, medically-necessary wheelchair accessories. “I’d like to thank my colleague and friend, Rep. Lee Zeldin, for working with me to introduce H.R. 1361, in order to protect Medicare beneficiaries’ access to Complex Rehab Technologies that allow men and women living with severe disabilities to go through their daily lives with the maximum independence and mobility that today’s customized wheelchairs and accessories allow. I am glad that CMS has listened to the voices of patients, advocates, and Members of Congress who have urged them to take action. After many years of working to avert these significant cuts, we are happy to see this become a reality,” said Larson. Background: In 2008, Congress passed the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA), which excluded CRT wheelchairs and accessories from the CMS’ competitive bid process. In November 2014, CMS issued a rule that ignored Congressional intent and would have reduced payments and harmed patient access to CRT wheelchair accessories. This rule was delayed twice by Congress through legislation, with the most recent delay set to expire on June 30th, 2017. The Zeldin/Larson bill (H.R. 1361) would have protected CRT wheelchairs and accessories from having their reimbursement rates reduced due to the competitive bidding process, and is endorsed by the ALS Association, Muscular Dystrophy Association, National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Paralyzed Veterans of America, VetsFirst, and the United Spinal Association. While CMS’ decision only applied to CRT power wheelchair accessories, Rep. Larson also supports the Ensuring Access to Quality Complex Rehabilitation Technology Act of 2017 (H.R. 750) that would recognize CRT power and manual wheelchairs and accessories as a separate benefit category under Medicare. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the CBO score for the Senate Republican’s Better Care Reconciliation Act was released: “The Republicans and the President have not been honest with the American people. From the start, this bill was never about health care, it was always about clearing the path for tax cuts. It is unconscionable, illogical, and frankly immoral to push through a bill that would throw 22 million Americans off of their health care in order to give tax breaks to the wealthiest 1 percent of the nation. I urge my Republican colleagues in the Senate to oppose this ‘mean’ bill that would devastate families, older Americans, veterans, people with disabilities, and others across Connecticut and the country. It is beyond belief that anybody in the Senate, many of whom are reasonable and genuinely worried about the ability of their constituents to access health care services, could support this bill. I will continue to fight this legislation on behalf of the 22 million Americans that should not have to do without health care just to help Republicans fulfill a campaign promise.” ###
06.23.2017	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $939,462 in federal funding through the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Assistance to Firefighter Grant (AFG) program to support fire departments in Fairfield, Ledyard, New Milford, and West Hartford. “Day in and day out, firefighters selflessly and heroically put their lives on the line in order to save others. First responders must have access to the best equipment and training necessary to do their jobs safely and effectively,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, Larson, Courtney, Himes, and Esty. “These federal dollars will go a long way in ensuring fire departments in Fairfield, Ledyard, New Milford, and West Hartford can continue to do what they do best—save lives and protect our communities.” The full breakdown of the funding is below: Fairfield, CT –$ 100,717 for a Firefighter Wellness & Fitness Program. Ledyard, CT –$ 242,096 for approximately 50 new Firefighter Breathing Apparatus for Ledyard and Gales Ferry fire companies Water Witch Hose Company # 2 of New Milford, CT –$ 45,455 for an Air Refill – Compressor System. West Hartford, CT –$ 551,194 for Firefighter Breathing Apparatus, an Air Refill – Compressor System and Training. Since 2001, FEMA’s Assistance to Firefighter grant program has helped firefighters and other first responders to obtain critically needed equipment, protective gear, emergency vehicles, training, and other resources needed to protect the public and emergency personnel from fire and related hazards. ###
06.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Senate Republicans released their health care bill: “It is no surprise that the Senate kept their bill hidden for so long. The bill still devastates Medicaid, still endangers the Medicare trust fund, and will still cause millions of Americans to become uninsured. However, I am most concerned about the impact of the Senate’s bill on those living with pre-existing conditions and the ability of the middle class to get affordable, comprehensive care. This bill remains a tax proposal, not a bill to help the people of Connecticut,” said Larson. “The bill is Robin Hood in reverse; it provides tax cuts to the wealthy on the backs of the middle class. When we passed the ACA, we had an open and transparent process with public hearings, committee debates, and the adoption of amendments from both sides of the aisle. The Senate is rushing this bill to the floor without any input from the American public. In the words of President Trump, for so many Americans especially the working poor and the middle class, this bill is mean.” ###
06.15.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that several Hartford area organizations will be receiving funding from the National Endowment for the Arts. Connecticut is receiving 14 grants totaling $957,400. In the First District the following organizations are receiving awards: Artists Collective in Hartford, CT Historical Society, the Hartford Stage, and the CT State Office of Arts, Dept. of Economic Community & Development. “The arts are a vital part of our society. They allow our people to express themselves and enhance our communities for the better. It is disappointing that President Trump has proposed to completely eliminate the National Endowment for the Arts in his budget. The NEA provides funding to arts organizations across the country which offers essential programs for their communities. I will continue to fight for the funding for the arts in our district and the country,” said Larson. ###
06.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the shooting this morning at the Republican Congressional Baseball Practice in Alexandria, Virginia: “We stand in solidarity with our Republican colleagues, and commend Speaker Ryan for convening the House along with Leader Pelosi, to unify the body after this senseless violence. My prayers are with my colleagues, their staff, and the brave men and women of the Capitol Police and Alexandria Police who answered the selfless call to defend and save the lives of my colleagues. My thoughts are with the injured for a speedy recovery, and with their families. We will continue to condemn senseless acts of violence of any kind,” said Larson. ###
06.12.2017	The members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the state is receiving a $3.1 million federal grant to expand efforts combating the prescription opioid crisis, particularly helping to provide youth and their families access to long-term substance use treatment that focuses on recovery. “This grant will improve access to long-term treatment and recovery services for youth fighting to overcome substance use and mental health disorders,” Connecticut’s Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. “The opioid crisis has made a grave impact on our communities, and unfortunately, children and young adults have not been spared. We’ve heard from families, health care providers, and those recovering from addiction – one-time, short-term treatment is simply not enough. These federal dollars will go towards the development of more sustainable, long-term treatment to help those struggling get on the right path towards recovery.” “Opioid addiction and prescription drug misuse is a disease that is impacting nearly every community and people of every background,” Governor Malloy said. “Children and young adults battling substance use need sustained services for recovery to take hold because all the evidence shows relapses are common. This grant will enable us to develop much needed, long-term treatment to keep people on a road to recovery and support lasting success.” The funding is being awarded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and will be used by the Connecticut Department of Children and Families (DCF) and the Connecticut Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services (DMHAS) to further the efforts of the ASSERT Project (Access, Screening and Engagement Recovery Support and Treatment), which is helping to close a critical gap in services for adolescents ages 12 through 17 and transitional age youth ages 18 through 21. In the first year of the four-year grant, recovery services will be offered to adolescents, young adults, and their families in Hartford, Norwich, New London, New Britain, and Waterbury. The program will be expanded in the second year to include Bridgeport and New Haven. “I want to thank our federal partners for supporting Connecticut’s work on opioids,” Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. “While we’ve greatly improved prevention and treatment, we are still losing lives to overdose and addiction. For young people particularly, it’s critical that we have treatment programs available to keep them on track after recovery. Their ages make them among the most unsuspecting victims, and we cannot afford to give up the next generation to addiction and dependence.” Through the project, treatment services will last on average six months and access to recovery support will last on average a full year. Currently, youth only have access to treatment services. ASSERT will help as many as 192 youth each year and is expected to serve many more through the development of recovery supports for youth across the state. “The ASSERT Project will focus on youth at risk of and/or with opioid use disorders, including access to medication-assisted treatment in the community,” DCF Commissioner Joette Katz said. “This will bring a public-health approach to the opioid crisis by viewing substance use disorders as a condition that needs ongoing management and support, including outreach and recovery management supports. The project is the result of a strong and broad partnership that included not just DCF and DMHAS, but also Court Support Services Division of the Judicial Branch, the State Department of Education, and families and youth themselves.” “This grant and the project it funds are an outgrowth of an important discussion about what families really need to effect lasting solutions to real-life struggles in battling substance use,” DMHAS Commissioner Miriam Delphin-Rittmon said. “Youth involved in substance use need more than a one-time treatment – they need ongoing support, and this program will connect children and young adults with community supports to help them achieve sustained recovery.”
06.12.2017	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (D-1), Joe Courtney (D-2), Rosa DeLauro (D-3), Jim Himes (D-4), and Elizabeth Esty (D-5) released the names of the Connecticut students who have been appointed to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland, the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York. “It’s an honor to announce the Connecticut students who will attend our nation’s prestigious service academies. Nominating incredibly bright and hard-working young women and men eager to learn, lead, and serve our country is an extraordinary privilege,” said the delegation. “We wish these students and their families the best of luck and are grateful for their grit, intelligence, and desire to serve.” Each year, Members of Congress are able to nominate candidates for appointment to four of the nation’s U.S. service academies. Graduates are commissioned as officers in the active or reserve components of the military or Merchant Marine and serve for a minimum of five years. The nominees were chosen by each Member’s Selection Committees, a nonpartisan board made up of service academy graduates, veterans, educators, community leaders, and retired military personnel. Those nominees who have accepted appointment are listed below. U.S. Naval Academy Cameron Michael Berger, New Milford Logan Grace Book, Darien Thomas Patrick Costello, West Hartford Martin Joseph Duffy, Fairfield Jack Albert Eichen, Washington Nicholas Harrison Franchuk, Southport Stephen Macgregor Gemmell, Hamden Joseph Anthony Giannini, Branford Abhishek Gorti, Hamden Jonathan Gabriel Hernandez, Avon Dean Matthew Hochman, Fairfield Ryan Hadlow Koehler, Groton Savada Minnie Robinson, Oxford Philip Hunter Ross, Woodbridge Thomas Christopher Savarese, Shelton Andrew Joseph Swain, West Hartford Amar S. Viswanathan, Waterford U.S. Military Academy at West Point Jessica Jeanne Barry, Tolland Raymond Paul Bartoli, Wolcott Thomas James Bordeauz, Jr., Woodbridge Taylor Aston Bradley, Wethersfield Stephen John Cavoli, Jr., Darien Aristotle James Colarossi, Stamford Spencer Jean-Philip Daniels, Westport Robert Ethan Elkins, Danbury Alexander Henry Fortier, Deep River Michael Joseph Halas II, Danbury Zachary Dean Hazzard, Ellington Karl Andrew Johnson, Westport Geoffrey Bjorn Kirk, Avon Hunter Ldous Knibbe, Ridgefield Kaitlyn Marie Kutz, Darien HyunJin Lim, Branford Benjamin Scott McDougall, East Granby Raymond Ronald Miklos III, Madison Aaron Stephen Mullally, New Fairfield Ryan Alan Murphy, Stamford George Alexander Pavlakis, Avon Riley Talmage Roarick, Old Saybrook Max Aaron Scheps, Orange Cara Linh Shattan, New Canaan Elijah Bretnal Stephenson, Bridgeport Sean Paul Stolarski, Weston John David Swanson, Washington Depot Joseph Seamus Waldron, Danbury Ryan Corbitt Witter, Unionville U.S. Air Force Academy § Alexander William Cooper, Waterford § Olivia Rose Cretella, Plainville § Thomas Malcolm Heisler, Westport § Colin John Kennelly, Prospect § Caleb Thomas Melinosky, North Stonington § Olivia Chantal Pease, Ashford § Alexander James Presley, Greenwich § Luke Austin St. Pierre, Ridgefield § Franklin Noel Valentin, Jr., East Hartford § Ryan Martin Van Riper, Glastonbury U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Jake Nolan Beinstein, Old Greenwich Audrey Grace Dean, Bolton Kieran Edmond Duggan, Woodbury Virginia Grace Poe, Groton ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House passed the CHOICE Act, a bill that would repeal important Dodd-Frank regulations put in place after the 2008 financial crisis. Larson voted No on the bill: “This vote represents a step backwards in time. 2008 is still fresh in people’s memories of what happened in a deregulated environment. Unfortunately during that time, people saw their 401ks turn into to 101ks, and my Republican colleagues apparently didn’t learn the lesson. I am proud to have voted to stand with consumers. This is yet another example of Republicans putting the interests of corporations before the American people. This disastrous bill would leave millions of hard working Americans vulnerable to marketplace abuse by rolling back important consumer protections that have helped homeowners, seniors, service members, and people save for their retirement,” said Larson. “This Dodd-Frank repeal bill is a distraction from the fact that the Republicans have been unable to pass a single jobs bill despite holding the reins of government in both chambers and the White House.” ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) delivered letters written by East Hartford High School students, inviting Secretary Betsy DeVos to tour their school. Larson met with Kathleen Smith, Acting Assistant Secretary for the Office of Postsecondary Education. “I wanted to personally deliver the students’ letters so Secretary DeVos can hear how her actions and words, generalizing East Hartford based on one student’s experiences 17 years ago, has deeply hurt them. To stereotype a whole community based on one story is irresponsible. I hope she takes these students’ letters to heart, and take us up on our offer to come visit East Hartford so she can see firsthand what East Hartford pride and public education is all about,” said Larson. Larson also delivered letters from Governor Dan Malloy and Superintendent Nathan Quesnel inviting the Secretary to tour the East Hartford public school system. ###
06.07.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman John Larson (D-CT) and Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) introduced the Research & Experimentation Advances Competitiveness at Home (REACH) Act, which would improve the Research & Development tax incentive to encourage companies to increase their R&D spending in the United States. The REACH Act would make changes to the R&D credit to increase its efficiency and effectiveness and it would raise the Alternative Simplified Credit from 14 percent to 20 percent. “I’d like to thank my friend, Congressman Tiberi, for introducing this jobs bill to encourage companies of all kinds to boost their R&D spending right here at home,” said Larson. “In Connecticut and across the nation, businesses will be able to take advantage of a boosted Alternative Simplified Credit (ASC) and an expanded R&D credit. It is my hope that Congress can work in a bipartisan manner and take up this important bill that would help American companies create jobs and grow our economy.” “The R&D tax credit, which we made permanent in 2015, has incentivized companies to conduct innovative research here in the U.S., resulting in more jobs and higher wages for American workers,” said Tiberi. “Congressman Larson and I are introducing this bipartisan bill, the REACH Act, to build upon this success and enhance the R&D tax credit to encourage more businesses to invest in our economy.” CLICK HERE for a Section-By- Section Summary CLICK HERE to read the REACH Act ###
06.06.2017	(Hartford, CT)—Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $450,000 in federal funding and technical assistance from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to support brownfield sites in Shelton, Waterbury, and Hartford. The City of Shelton will be receiving $200,000 for a brownfields assessment grant to help assess sites in the Shelton Canal and Industrial District, prepare cleanup plans, and conduct community outreach. The cities of Hartford and Waterbury will each be receiving $125,000 in technical assistance funding to assist with current brownfield site work. President Trump’s most recent budget proposal would cut almost $35 million from the brownfields program, a severe decrease of nearly 23% from the current funding level. “Every dollar that goes toward a brownfield is a dollar well spent. This funding will help turn eyesores into economic generators—creating jobs, revitalizing neighborhoods, and protecting public health and the environment in Shelton, Waterbury, and Hartford. We will continue to fight misguided budget cuts and support smart federal investments that enrich and enliven communities across Connecticut,” said Larson, Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, Himes, and Esty. In New England, since the beginning of the Brownfields program, EPA has awarded 382 assessment grants totaling $103.9 million, 73 revolving loan fund grants and supplemental funding totaling $90 million and 290 cleanup grants totaling $69.9 million. These grant funds have paved the way for more than $2.4 billion in public and private cleanup and redevelopment investment and for nearly 15,499 jobs in assessment, cleanup, construction and redevelopment. ###
06.02.2017	Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) attended the ribbon cutting for the new United Technologies Research Center (UTRC) Innovation Hub in East Hartford. During the event, United Technologies announced that they would be investing an additional $115 million for a new Additive Manufacturing Center of Excellence and Engine Compressor Research Facility at its East Hartford campus. “UTRC is home to some of the most cutting edge R&D in the world and this investment is about developing the next generation of manufacturing technologies right here in Connecticut,” said Larson. “That is why I fought for the enactment of the permanent R&D tax credit. The innovation that happens here powers Connecticut’s unparalleled manufacturing ecosystem and will lead to job growth from the scientists, the engineers, the machinists, and the entire supply network. I applaud United Technologies on their new Innovation Hub and for continuing to invest in our state. I look forward to seeing the game changing technologies that will continue to be developed in East Hartford.” ###
06.02.2017	In recognition of Gun Violence Awareness Day, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Rep. Tony Cárdenas (CA-29) in introducing a resolution that would compel Congress to take action in the face of gun tragedies. H.Res.370, cosponsored by more than 100 Members of Congress, would require that any moment of silence held on the floor of the House of Representatives due to a tragedy involving gun violence be promptly followed by a hearing to discuss the cause of the tragedy and how similar events might be prevented in the future. “As we commemorate another Gun Violence Awareness Day, it’s clear that now more than ever we need to address gun violence,” said Larson. “Tragedies involving gun violence should be followed by more than just silence. Congress needs to stop dragging its feet and finally consider meaningful reforms to prevent further loss of innocent lives. Since the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary, there hasn’t been a single vote to address the gun violence in the House of Representatives. Congress is complicit in these tragedies because of the lack of action. We need a vote, and we will continue to demand a vote and action for the victims of gun violence.” “Americans are tired of Congressional inaction on the massive public health crisis that is gun violence in this country,” said Representative Cárdenas. “Every year, Members of Congress of both parties introduce dozens of bills to address gun violence, from making sure firearms don't fall into the hands of terrorists and strengthening our background check system, to combatting gun trafficking and investing in research. Unfortunately, these bills never even get a hearing. That's what this resolution would do -- it would allow us to hold a hearing so we can start tackling this issue and putting an end to these senseless acts of violence." A copy of the resolution can be found here. The resolution is cosponsored by: Reps. Barragan, Bass, Beatty, Beyer, Blumenauer, Boyle, Brady, Brown, Brownley, Capuano, Carbajal, Carson, Cartwright, Chu, Cicilline, Clark, Clarke, Cohen, Connolly, Conyers, Crowley, Cuellar, Cummings, Susan Davis, Danny Davis, DeGette, DeLauro, Demings, DeSaulnier, Deutch, Doyle, Ellison, Engel, Eshoo, Espaillat, Esty, Gabbard, Gallego, Garamendi, Green, Grijalva, Hanabusa, Hastings, Himes, Huffman, Jackson Lee, Jayapal, Keating, Kelly, Kennedy, Kildee, Langevin, Larson, Lee, Levin, Lieu, Lofgren, Lowenthal, Lujan, Lujan Grisham, Maloney, Maloney, McCollum, McEachin, McGovern, McNerney, Meeks, Meng, Moore, Moulton, Napolitano, Norcross, Norton, Pallone, Pascrell, Payne, Perlmutter, Peters, Pocan, Polis, Quigley, Raskin, Rice, Ruiz, Ruppersberger, Rush, Ryan, Sanchez, Schakowsky, Schiff, Scott, Serrano, Shea-Porter, Sires, Slaughter, Speier, Swalwell, Takano, Titus, Tonko, Torres, Tsongas, Vargas, Veasey, Velazquez, Wasserman Schulz, Waters, Watson Coleman, Yarmuth ###
06.01.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $3.9 million in AmeriCorps funding from the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). The funding includes four grants totaling $920,090, which will support 217 AmeriCorps members. In addition, the organizations will be awarded $1,763,730 from the Connecticut Commission on Community Service, the Governor-appointed state service commission. CNCS will also provide up to $1.2 million in education scholarships for the AmeriCorps members funded by these grants to help pay for college, vocational training, or pay back student loans. “For over 20 years, AmeriCorps has played a significant role in strengthening communities from Hartford to Bridgeport. We’re pleased to announce more funds to provide children with an excellent education, encourage healthy eating in schools, address mental health and substance abuse issues, and help cultivate the next generation of leaders. Unfortunately, the Trump budget would completely eliminate this funding— a deeply misguided decision that would harm local communities and end important service opportunities for young people nationwide. We stand united in fighting these cuts, and protecting the unique role that AmeriCorps has played in making Connecticut a better place to live, learn, and grow,” said the delegation. Below is a listing of 2017 AmeriCorps competitive grants in Connecticut: FoodCorps Connecticut – $237,000 AmeriCorps members will connect children in public schools to healthy food through nutrition education, school garden construction, and improved school lunch offerings. (20 AmeriCorps members) Teach For America Connecticut – $86,500 AmeriCorps members will serve as full-time teachers in six of Connecticut's most underserved communities: Stamford, Bridgeport, New Haven, New Britain, Hartford, and Windham. (147 AmeriCorps members) Public Allies Connecticut –$363,090 AmeriCorps members will deliver capacity building services in 19 unique organizations addressing education, housing, food security and other poverty-related disparities in Bridgeport, New Haven, and Hartford. (30 AmeriCorps members) Mental Health First Aid Corps – $246,500 AmeriCorps members will certify community members in Youth Mental Health First Aid, a training that teaches how to identify, understand and respond to signs of mental illnesses and substance use disorders. (20 AmeriCorps members) This announcement comes after President Trump’s latest budget proposal, which would eliminate the Corporation for National and Community Service and all of its programs, including AmeriCorps. Since 1994, more than 1 million men and women have served in AmeriCorps, providing more than 1.4 billion hours of service and earning more than $3.3 billion in scholarships to pay for college, more than $1 billion of which has been used to pay back student loan debt. ###
06.01.2017	U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) encouraged Connecticut communities and healthcare providers on Thursday to apply for assistance through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service’s new grant programs to prevent opioid overdoses and provide opioid abuse treatment. The delegation highlighted nearly $43 million in federal assistance that could help enhance treatment and prevention throughout Connecticut. “We see the painful reality of opioid addiction every day in towns across our state, and we know that Connecticut families are counting on these federal dollars to fight it,” said the delegation. “These new dollars can help Connecticut’s first responders and health care providers save more lives. We hope communities across Connecticut will apply for this opportunity.” Administered through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), the state of Connecticut and Connecticut cities, incorporated towns, and townships are eligible to apply for the following grant program: · First Responders: Up to $41.7 million over 4 years available to approximately 30 grantees to train and provide resources for first responders and members of other key community sectors on carrying and administering an FDA approved product for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose. Also administered through SAMHSA, Connecticut’s federally qualitied health centers are eligible to apply for the following grant: · Improving Access to Overdose Treatment: Up to $1 million over 5 years to one grantee to expand availability to overdose reversal medications in healthcare settings and to establish protocols to connect patients who have experienced a drug overdose with appropriate treatment. Last month, the delegation announced a $5.5 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to support Connecticut efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. ###
05.30.2017	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined East Hartford students and educators in voicing their concerns regarding Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos’s comments about East Hartford High School. Later in the morning, he joined Gov. Malloy, Lt. Gov. Wyman, Commissioner Dianna Wentzell, Bryan Hall, Board Chairman of East Hartford Public Schools, Superintendent Nate Quesnel, Principal Matt Ryan, and other local legislators to address her remarks at East Hartford High School. “Secretary DeVos’s remarks were personal. I graduated from this high school 50 years ago. My parents graduated from this high school 75 years ago. A high school that is over 130 years old, that is steeped in tradition, pride, and community values that make us care so deeply. All of my children went to public schools and one them teaches at East Hartford High School today. So I say to Secretary DeVos, we grew up in this town. We know this community, and one thing I can say with certainty after listening to your remarks, you don’t know East Hartford. “We want the Secretary to visit us here, because it is only fitting when you stereotype a community, when you paint it with such a broad brush, and you’re the Secretary of Education, you have the responsibility of coming out and meeting student’s like Jadah Dalely, who has written a letter to Secretary DeVos. I am going to take the students’ letters and personally hand them to Secretary DeVos, because we want to show her East Hartford, so she can see public education first hand. And I’m going to make her an offer she can’t refuse, I’m going to take her to Augie and Ray’s afterwards,” said Larson. Larson has sent a letter to Secretary DeVos which can be viewed here. ###
05.29.2017	This Op-Ed was orginally published in the Hartford Courant on May 29, 2017. It can be viewed here. By John B. Larson Memorial Day falls this year on what would be President John F. Kennedy's 100th birthday. It's hard to believe that a man that we remember as being so vigorous, so vital, so intelligent and so young, would be 100 years old. John Kennedy was an inspiration to all when he was alive. He had the ability to summon the country like no other president. He was able to set a high bar for the nation, that seemed possible to achieve under his leadership. Kennedy established goals for excellence and raised the consciousness of the American people to a level of dignity befitting a nation embarking on building a positive future for mankind. As we remember his legacy, the best way to honor him is to meet his call for national service and commit to it. On May 25, I introduced a bill called America's Call to Improve Opportunities Now for National Service, alongside Kennedy's great-nephew, U.S. Rep. Joe Kennedy, D-Mass., and a national icon, U.S. Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga. This legislation was inspired by President Kennedy's call to serve our country. With this bill, we hope to exponentially increase service opportunities such as those in AmeriCorps, SeniorCorps and Teach for America. Young people who complete their terms of service would be eligible for student debt relief, for every year of service, they would receive two years of in-state college tuition to use for college, or trade school, or to pay down their student loans. By 2026, we hope to have 1 million service members serving at one time. You do not need a uniform to serve your country and your community. As retired Gen. Stanley McChrystal has said, national service could help bridge the military-civilian divide by forming an understanding of a shared sacrifice. "A system of universal national service can work to foster a shared sense of capacities overseas and at home," he wrote. General McChrystal believes in creating a universal system of national service and supports the idea of all young Americans serving for a year in some capacity. He wrote, "Right now, less than 1 percent of our population serves in the military and, in my view, we need to rethink and create a system where young Americans have an opportunity to serve their nation in other ways. We need to create a culture of service where we are all invested in our nation's future and feel a shared sense of responsibility to our nation and to each other." Service is a way for our nation, and our youth, to find common ground. At a time when our nation is so divided, we need to come together, and stand united again. Through service we can find common ground with each other. As John Kennedy said in his inaugural address: "In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than in mine, will rest the final success or failure of our course. Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned to give testimony to its national loyalty. The graves of young Americans who answered the call to service surround the globe. "Now the trumpet summons us again — not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need; not as a call to battle, though embattled we are — but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle, year in and year out, "rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation" — a struggle against the common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease and war itself. "Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance, North and South, East and West, that can assure a more fruitful life for all mankind? Will you join in that historic effort? ... "And so, my fellow Americans: Ask not what your country can do for you — ask what you can do for your country." On what would be John Kennedy's 100th birthday, it is time for us to reflect on his message, his call, and his insight, and come together to help our neighbors and our nation for the greater good.
05.26.2017	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after he sent a letter to the U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, in response to remarks she made about East Hartford: “Thomas Jefferson had it right when he said an educated citizenry is a vital requisite for our survival as a free people. A robust public education system is therefore a necessary investment in our nation’s future and the right of every child no matter their socio-economic background or where they matriculate. “In a recent Congressional testimony on the President’s FY2018 budget, U.S. Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos used the story of a former East Hartford student, Michael, in describing East Hartford schools as ‘dangerous daycares’. As a former public school educator myself, I am deeply aware of the challenges that our public schools face. The characterization of East Hartford schools as uncaring is absolutely contrary to what I know about our local teachers and faculty who are dedicated to the success of every student. “While I believe Secretary DeVos’ intentions in highlighting Michael’s experiences came from a good place, we must as a nation lift up all our public schools to succeed rather than further widen the opportunity gap between students who have and have-not. “That is why I sent a letter to the Secretary DeVos, joining Superintendent Nathan Quesnel in inviting the Secretary to tour our local schools, as well as the East Hartford IB Academy, to get a true sense of the challenges that our public schools face, as well as their absolute commitment to all East Hartford students. I look forward to hosting Secretary DeVos soon and perhaps visiting the iconic Augie & Rays.” Larson’s letter to DeVos can be viewed here, and he will be following up with her in person. ###
05.26.2017	Bloomfield, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Bloomfield resident, Colonel Anne Sullivan, with a Congressional Citation and an American Flag that was flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of her 103rd birthday. "It is always an honor to meet members of our greatest generation. Colonel Anne Sullivan bravely served our nation in World War II as a nurse, where she helped countless service members. I thank her for her service and wish her a very happy 103rd birthday,” said Larson. Colonel Sullivan served in the United States Army from 1942-1974. She was previously awarded the following decorations for her service: Meritorious Service Medal American Campaign Medal Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal WWII Victory Medal ###
05.26.2017	Southington, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented the family of the late Joseph F. Clements with his military medals. "It is an honor for me to present the Clements family with their late uncle's medals. Private Clements bravely served our country during World War II. I thank him and all our service men and women, past and present, for their service and sacrifices," said Larson. Private Joseph Clements served in the United States Army from 1943-1946. He was captured by the Nazis in 1945 and was a POW for at least 79 days. Rep. Larson presented the following awards to the Clements family: POW Medal Bronze Star Medal Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 1 bronze service star World War II Victory Medal Combat Infantry Badge 1st Award Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII ###
05.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), John Lewis (GA-05), Joe Kennedy (MA-04), and Doris Matsui (CA-06) reintroduced America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act. This would enhance access to national and community service opportunities, create a more engaged citizenry, and address national priorities in education, infrastructure, healthcare, disaster relief, and poverty. The legislation builds on the work of President John Kennedy, President Bill Clinton, and Senator Ted Kennedy. "To honor President Kennedy's vision and legacy, it is time for us to renew the commitment to national service. From President Kennedy's iconic, ‘Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country,’ to his founding of the Peace Corps, he created a legacy that focuses on serving your country. This bill will expand the opportunities for service. The will to serve is there, but due to lack of sufficient funding, organizations like City Year have to turn away applicants,” said Rep. John Larson (CT-01). “Service programs, like AmeriCorps, SeniorCorps and Teach for America give back to their communities by reducing high school delinquency through mentoring programs, increasing graduation rates with literacy programs and responding to natural disasters where local authorities are in need. This bill will reduce the costs of higher education for those who serve by increasing the educational benefit. Those who serve their country deserve to be relieved of the burdens of increasing higher education costs or being saddled with student debt.” “When President Kennedy spoke at American University, he called Americans to do what they could to contribute to the work of peace. Volunteer service is a way that citizens can help this nation accomplish its goals while they visit with each other, get to know each other as well as the cultures and communities that make up this diverse country. It is enriches the giver and the receiver, and creates benefits that last far beyond the time of service. Such a small government investment in these programs, offers our country a tremendous return that can heal wounds and build cities,” said Rep. John Lewis (GA-05). “This country’s strength is not built on toughness alone, but on justice, compassion and decency. At a time when the Trump Administration is proposing to eliminate community service programs across the country, the ACTION for National Service Act will reaffirm a deeply American commitment to care for one another in our times of need. From poverty to literacy, it will help deploy this country’s greatest natural resource – her people – to tackle our most pressing national challenges,” said Rep. Joe Kennedy (MA-04). “National service strengthens our country’s future. President Kennedy encouraged us to put service at the forefront of our duty as citizens. Today, as we honor his legacy, we recommit to providing the next generation with the tools to engage in their communities and meet the challenges we face as a nation. I’m pleased to join Congressman Larson in introducing this important legislation and I look forward to working together to ensure Americans continue to have opportunities to serve," said Rep. Doris Matsui (CA-06). "This country needs national service now more than ever and I applaud Rep. Larson and Rep. Lewis for recognizing this and taking action,” said General McChrystal, The McChrystal Group. "The national service community is grateful to Congressman Larson and our bipartisan champions in Congress who understand the value of national service programs and are committed to expanding and strengthening these opportunities, including through the ACTION for National Service Act. Now more than ever, in the face of the President's FY18 budget proposal, we need congressional leaders to stand up for AmeriCorps and Senior Corps, national service programs that support evidence-based community solutions, prepare young Americans to enter the workforce, and unite us as a nation,” said AnnMaura Connolly, President, Voices for National Service. "Service Year Alliance applauds Rep. Larson and Rep. Lewis for their leadership to making a year of service a common expectation and opportunity. The ACTION for National Service Act would make an important contribution to this goal,” said Shirley Sigawa, President of Service Year Alliance. For more information on ACTION for National Service, please visit: https://larson.house.gov/issues/national-service Facebook Live Video ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the new CBO score for Trumpcare was released today showing that 23 million Americans would still lose their health insurance. "The CBO score confirms what we've already known, the Republicans so called 'health care' plan is ill-conceived and ill-prepared. While it lines the pockets of billionaires, millions are left without health insurance. This bill is not a health care bill, it is a tax cut for the wealthy. Countless groups, including the AARP and the AMA have come out against this bill, yet the Republicans rushed it through the House with no hearings and no CBO score. It was reckless for the House GOP to pass this bill without all the facts. The CBO score says that 23 million Americans would still lose their health insurance and it further erodes protections for those with pre-existing conditions. The CBO score explicitly states that this bill would cause many with high health care costs to lose their health insurance. The score also confirms that millions of Americans live in states that would cut Essential Health Benefits, like maternity care, prescription drugs, and mental health. That is unacceptable. I will continue to fight this and urge my colleagues in the Senate to do the same," said Larson. ###
05.24.2017	Washington, D.C. - Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) received a response from the National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson following a request for assistance formally made to Ms. Olson’s office last week. "We are encouraged that the National Taxpayer Advocate has committed to working with our offices and the IRS to secure relief for Connecticut homeowners impacted by crumbling foundations through the tax code. We still have a lot of work to do, but having a key federal official publicly acknowledge the merits of casualty loss tax assistance for local homeowners is an encouraging development. Our offices remain committed to investigating every possible source of federal assistance that could be used to homeowners with crumbling foundations," said Larson and Courtney. Reps. Larson and Courtney also submitted a letter to Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin requesting to meet to discuss possible federal tax relief for the homeowners who have been harmed by crumbling foundations. The Treasury Department’s Office of Tax Policy has the authority to make a decision on providing such tax relief. Rep. Larson also made the request of Secretary Mnuchin during a Ways and Means Hearing today. ###
05.23.2017	Washington D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Trump’s budget proposal: “We need a budget that helps middle-class and working families, that supports programs like Meals on Wheels, and one that doesn’t cut Social Security. President Trump’s budget is a tax break for the wealthy on the backs of America’s middle-class. He’s breaking many of the promises he made on the campaign trail about not cutting Social Security or Medicaid, and instead he’s making drastic, harmful cuts. As Ranking Member on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee, I will fight any cuts to Social Security; we need to enhance and expand the program, not cut it. While I applaud the additional research funding set aside to develop a follow-on for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, this budget is a complete non-starter. I will fight this disastrous budget proposal and any proposals to weaken our nation’s support for its citizens.” Larson also released a statement on Social Security cuts in the budget, which can be viewed here. ###
05.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee Ranking Member John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on the Social Security cuts proposed in President Trump’s budget: “President Trump promised time and time again to the American people that he would not cut Social Security. In today’s budget, he broke that promise. The President’s budget calls for up to $64 billion in cuts to the Social Security benefits that Americans earned with every paycheck. And for what? To pay for his tax cuts for the wealthy. This a broken promise to the millions of people who worked and paid their premiums into the system in the belief that these earned benefits would be there for them when they retired or found themselves unable to work due to a severe, long-term or permanent disability. The Social Security Disability Insurance program was a crowning achievement of President Dwight Eisenhower, who saw the conditions of veterans returning home from World War II. As Ranking Member, I will fight this disastrous budget proposal and any attempts to weaken our nation’s support for its citizens.” ###
05.23.2017	(Remarks as prepared) I’d like to thank my friend Tom Rice for leading today’s joint subcommittee hearing, in the absence of our Chairman Sam Johnson. Social Security represents a sacred compact between the federal government and the hard-working men and women who pay into this important insurance program. I was proud to join with Chairman Johnson in introducing the Social Security Must Avert Identity Loss (MAIL) Act to require the Social Security Administration to remove beneficiaries’ Social Security numbers from mailed notices. To highlight the importance of protecting people’s Social Security numbers, we are partnering here with the Information Technology Subcommittee of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. I am honored to welcome Chairman Will Hurd and Ranking Member Robin Kelly to our hearing room. Since 2014, hundreds of millions of Americans have lost their personally identifiable information – including their Social Security numbers-- to large-scale cyber-attacks. The number was originally created in 1936, for the purpose of running the nation’s new Social Security system. However, its usefulness as a unique, governmental identifier has made it near ubiquitous across government and the private sector. To date, the Social Security Administration has not suffered any large-scale data breach. But ongoing vigilance is needed, including adequate support for updating and modernizing IT infrastructure. Altogether, the Social Security Administration has been able to remove the 9-digit SSN from about one-third of the mailings it sends out. The severe constraints on the Social Security Administration’s budget, however, are preventing the agency from removing the numbers from all notices right away, as they have estimated it would cost $14 million to do so immediately, rather than piecemeal. Since 2010, the number of beneficiaries has grown by 13 percent as the baby boomers enter retirement, but Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by more than 10 percent in that same time period, after accounting for inflation. The Social Security Administration simply cannot serve more and more people with less and less money each year. The Social Security Administration is already struggling to serve its beneficiaries at the level they deserve. My constituents are experiencing multi-year wait times on disability appeals hearings. Their phone calls are going unanswered. They face delays in correcting errors in their benefit payments. To make matters worse, the President’s FY2018 budget released today also attacks Social Security benefits for those with disabilities, as much as $70 billion over 10 years. President Trump promised repeatedly and explicitly, throughout the campaign, not to cut Social Security or Medicare. He broke his promise to the American people. I hope my colleagues will join me in fighting these cuts to Social Security. With that, I look forward to the testimony from the four agencies who are here today. ###
05.23.2017	The Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced that Sikorsky has secured a $55 million federal contract from the U.S. Navy to begin purchasing necessary materials to prepare for production of the first CH-53K production helicopters, the U.S. Marine Corps’ new heavy-lift aircraft, to be built by Sikorsky in Connecticut. “This contract is a down payment that enables Sikorsky to purchase materials needed to prepare for construction of the first CH-53K production helicopters in Connecticut. We are proud to have fought to bring this important work to Connecticut, as it will become the core of Sikorsky’s work here for the decade to come. We will continue to fight for robust funding for the CH-53K program—keeping Sikorsky’s unparalleled workforce on the job and ensuring our warfighters receive the technology and capability they need and deserve.” ###
05.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – ACMT, Inc. and Interpreters and Translators, Inc., both of Manchester, CT were honored during the 2017 President’s “E” Awards Ceremony. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross and Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented ACMT with the “E” Award for Exports and presented Interpreters and Translators with the “E” Award for Export Service. “ACMT and Interpreters and Translators are both deserving of this distinction for their export work. I am very proud that they are headquartered in Connecticut’s First District. Because of their extraordinary efforts to sell their products worldwide, they are able to provide good paying jobs to Connecticut residents. Congratulations to ACMT and Interpreters and Translators for expanding U.S. exports and contributing to the local economy. ACMT, and other manufacturing companies like them, are the reason why I have always been a keen supporter of research and development and manufacturing.” said Rep. Larson. “These two hard working Connecticut companies are expanding their businesses and growing jobs through exports. They demonstrate the best of Connecticut and are proof we are truly a global state,” said Anne Evans, Director of the Connecticut Office of the US Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration. The President’s “E” Award was revived by President John F. Kennedy in 1961, as a symbol of excellence to honor America’s exporters. This award is the highest recognition that any American entity can receive for their contribution in expanding U.S. exports. ###
05.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) heard from the National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson, that they are requesting federal tax relief for homeowners harmed by the crumbling foundation problem that has struck communities in Eastern Connecticut. After ongoing efforts led by Courtney, Larson spoke directly with Olson at a Ways & Means Oversight Subcommittee hearing Friday morning. Rep. Larson’s remarks at the hearing can be viewed here. “Today, we were pleased to hear from National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson that her office has sent a request to the IRS’ Office of Chief Counsel for priority guidance to allow homeowners to apply for federal tax relief. We will continue to work with Ms. Olson in getting the IRS to agree to release guidance as soon as possible to help Connecticut homeowners. “While we are pleased with today’s news, the IRS must agree to issue guidance before homeowners can apply for some relief and because this path may not help all affected residents, it will take continued, coordinated efforts with our state and local partners to ensure that homeowners know all their options for pursuing assistance. We thank National Taxpayer Advocate Nina Olson for her commitment to work with us on a path forward.” The letter sent to the National Taxpayer Advocate after the hearing can be found here and below: May 19, 2017 Ms. Nina E. Olson National Taxpayer Advocate Internal Revenue Service (IRS) 1500 Pennsylvania Ave, NW Washington, DC 220229 Dear Ms. Olson: Thank you for your testimony before the Ways & Means Oversight Committee on May 19, 2017 at the hearing on “IRS Reform: Lessons Learned from the National Taxpayer Advocate.” We were pleased to hear that your office has submitted a request to the Internal Revenue Service, urging them to consider priority guidance on how Connecticut homeowners harmed by crumbling foundations may apply for federal tax relief. While this is just the first step in a longer process, we thank you for your advocacy on behalf of Connecticut homeowners. As you are aware, stakeholders have identified a particular provision in the tax code that allows taxpayers to deduct the cost of casualty losses. While usually limited to sudden losses, the IRS has issued exceptions in the past. In particular in the case of imported corrosive drywall, which affected thousands of homeowners in southeastern states, the IRS issued a revenue procedure to apply casualty losses to this non-sudden case. In order to complete the record for the hearing, we ask for a copy of the request submitted to the IRS’ Office of Chief Counsel regarding CT homeowners and their crumbling home foundations caused by the mineral, pyrrhotite. Background: As discussed in the hearing, homeowners in three dozen towns in north central and northeast Connecticut have reported that their foundations are failing. The cost of repairs is estimated to be $150,000 per home and it is not covered under any homeowners’ insurance policy. While over 500 formal complaints have been registered with the state’s Department of Consumer Protection, the reach and impact of this problem is much wider. A recent Associated Press article estimates that as many as 30,000 homes could be affected. After months of meeting and working with homeowners, local leaders, state officials and my colleagues in the Connecticut federal delegation, it is clear to many of us that there is no single solution to this crisis and that any response to this problem must be multi-faceted, with a range of options on the local, state and federal levels. Thank you again for your testimony and your attention to these questions. Sincerely, John B. Larson Joe Courtney Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act (HR 1892) passed the House of Representatives 411-1. "Passage of this bill is a meaningful victory for our first responders and their loved ones. I want to especially thank Jim McLoughlin, a veteran Hartford firefighter who brought this to my attention. “We all so vividly remember firefighters running up the stairs of the World Trade Center, while others were coming down to safety, or when we all witnessed police officers and EMTs running towards the blasts, to help the injured during the Boston Marathon Bombing. Whether it’s a national emergency or medical emergency, these brave men and women are the first to answer the call. They are the nation’s first line of defense of our laws, freedoms, lives and communities. Paying tribute to the service of those fallen first responders who have paid the ultimate sacrifice is the least we can do," said Larson. Larson first introduced the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act in 2011 in the 112th Congress. This bill allows the governor of a state or territory (or the Mayor of the District of Colombia), to order the lowering of the flag to half-staff if a first responder dies in the line of duty. This legislation has been supported by major national first responder organizations, including all three of the congressional first responder caucuses. Larson reintroduced this bill in April with help of the lead cosponsors, Reps. Peter King (NY-02), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Tim Walz (MN-01), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John Rutherford (FL-04), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), and Raul Grijalva (AZ-03). On May 11th, Senator Jon Tester (MT) introduced a companion bill (S 1108) in the Senate. The flag code was last amended in 2007 by the Army Specialist Joseph P. Micks Federal Flag Code Amendment Act (Public Law 110-41) that expanded the criteria when a Governor can order the flag to be lowered to half-staff to include members of the Armed Forces who die while serving on active duty. Supported by: International Association of Fire Fighters; International Association of Fire Chiefs; Congressional Fire Services Institute; Fraternal Order of Police; Sergeants Benevolent Association; Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association; National Association of Police Organizations; National Fallen Firefighters Foundation; Major County Sheriff’s Association; National Volunteer Fire Council; National Honor Guard Commanders Association; National Honor Guard Academy; National Fire Academy Alumni Association; California Fire Foundation; Illinois Fire Chiefs Association; Ohio Fire Chiefs Association; Virginia Fire Chiefs Association; and Local Assistance State Teams (LAST) in Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and Virginia. More information on the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act can be found here. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the Ways and Means Committee met for the first time as a full committee on the GOP tax reform blueprint. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the hearing: “Tax reform needs to be a bipartisan process, we need to work together and find common ground for the American people and for our small businesses. It has been a year since the GOP released their blueprint, but today was the first full committee hearing on that blueprint. I’d urge the Committee to hold further public hearings on how tax reform will benefit middle-class and working families. We do not want to return to the days of the Battle at Gucci Gulch, we need this Committee to be about the vitality of ideas. Only when the details come out will we know who the true winners and losers are. The businesses that testified today said that they too would push for a real bipartisan process. I hope my colleagues across the aisle will work with us to pave the best path forward for the American people,” said Larson. Rep. Larson’s remarks can be viewed here. ###
05.18.2017	Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced $1.5 million in federal grants for NeighborWorks affordable housing developments in Connecticut. The major federal award comes as President Donald Trump seeks to eliminate all future funding for NeighborWorks in his federal budget proposal. Last month, President Trump unveiled a “skinny” budget proposal that would zero funding for the NeighborWorks program. His full budget plan is expected to be released next week. “This major federal award will provide high quality, affordable housing to families across Connecticut. This is a proud moment for NeighborWorks and the powerful work they do nationwide, but our celebration is dampened today by looming budget threats. President Trump’s budget proposal would completely eliminate all funding for NeighborWorks, one of a number of callous attacks on affordable housing in his shortsighted and deeply flawed plan. Access to safe and affordable housing is so important for Connecticut families and we ought to instead increase our aid to organizations like NeighborWorks.” The funding breakdown is below: NeighborWorks Organization Name Grant Award Housing Development Fund, Inc. $437,000 Mutual Housing Association of Greater Hartford, Inc. $184,500 Mutual Housing Association of Southwestern Connecticut, Inc. $105,000 NeighborWorks New Horizons $214,500 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Britain, Inc. $93,000 Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven, Inc. $250,500 Neighborhood Housing Services of Waterbury, Inc. $216,000 NeighborWorks America is a public nonprofit organization established by Congress in 1978 that supports and enhances a network of nearly 250 local and regional nonprofit partner NeighborWorks organizations that develop local solutions to community development and affordable housing in urban, suburban and rural communities. The program provides NeighborWorks organizations financial and grant support, training, technical assistance, organizational assessments, technology tools and other services. ###
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the announcement that Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, appointed former FBI Director Robert Mueller as a special prosecutor for the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. elections. “This is an important development and in light of everything that’s transpired this was the appropriate action to take. I commend Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein for taking the initiative to appoint a special prosecutor. While I hope the committees go forward with their business, the Justice Department should be commended for taking the right step," said Larson. ###
05.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Representatives John Larson (D-CT), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), and Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today introduced the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act, which builds upon the successes of the Steve Gleason Act of 2015. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act permanently fixes the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that limited access to speech generation devices for people with degenerative diseases. “The silence and isolation that comes from losing the ability to communicate does not discriminate between types of injuries, diseases, accidents, or conditions,” said Steve Gleason. “Most people who have severe disabilities are expected to fade away quietly and die. For me, that was not ok. With the right equipment and the right technology, these same people can live and be productive for decades. I know I speak for all who use this technology in saying – we cannot revert back to the changes that preceded the Steve Gleason Act of 2015. I am grateful for Representatives McMorris Rodgers and Larson, as well as Senators Cassidy and Klobuchar, for their leadership on this issue. While this Act was passed unanimously in 2015, we ask Congress to join these sponsors to permanently ensure that people with the most severe disabilities have access to communication, and the tools to continue a productive and purposeful life.” “I’d like to thank the Gleason family and the dedicated advocates with Team Gleason, the ALS Association, and Connecticut’s own Center for Medicare Advocacy for fighting alongside individuals and families living with degenerative diseases,” said Congressman Larson (D-CT). “As a member of Ways & Means, I will work to advance this must-pass bill through the Committee to ensure that people’s’ access to speech-generating devices are protected. I am proud to stand with Rep. McMorris Rodgers and our Senate colleagues on this important, bipartisan effort to make the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 permanent.” “Steve Gleason is a hero and inspiration to all of us, and especially to the thousands of Americans living with degenerative diseases who, like him, rely on speech generating devices to communicate with their family, friends, and doctors,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). “When bureaucratic rules threatened to silence many of them, the Gleason Act gave these individuals the peace of mind to know that their voices will continue to be heard. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act ensures there are ‘no white flags’ and that access to speech generation devices continues permanently for those who need it most. This is about giving a permanent voice to the voiceless.” “I am proud to continue the efforts of my former colleague, Senator David Vitter, who worked for years to allow those who could not speak to have a voice,” said Dr. Cassidy (R-LA). “These communication devices open up the world to the thousands living with speech and communication disabilities.” “Speech-generating devices aren’t a luxury for people affected by diseases like ALS and Parkinson’s—they’re a lifeline. These tools are crucial to helping people lead independent lives and stay connected to their communities,” said Senator Klobuchar (D-MN). “Our bipartisan legislation will ensure access to these life-changing devices for those who need them.” “This initiative builds on the great efforts we’ve already achieved in giving a voice back to those with degenerative disabilities,” said Congressman Paulsen (R-MN). “Thanks to the continued awareness raised by Steve Gleason and the countless advocates for those with ALS and other degenerative conditions, millions in need will now have permanent access to speech-generation devices, giving them the ability to be heard as well as communicate with loved ones.” “The ALS Association strongly supports the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act,” said Barbara Newhouse, President and CEO of the ALS Association. “The ability to communicate with family and friends – and express needs to medical professionals – should not be taken away from a person living with ALS. This bill will ensure that Medicare eligible patients are able to keep their speech generating devices – at home, in the community and in healthcare settings.” “As advocates for people with Medicare, we are delighted that the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act will make the 2015 Act permanent. This law will provide peace of mind for extremely vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries and ensure they will never again lose their only means of communication if they need to leave home to live in a nursing facility, hospice or hospital,” said Judith Stein, Executive Director at the Center for Medicare Advocacy. NOTE: After learning about CMS regulatory changes that limited access to Speech Generation Devices, affecting anyone who uses the device and has Medicare, Steve Gleason wrote an open letter to Congress and CMS in July, 2014. Steve’s mother, Gail Gleason, and members of the ALS Association then approached Representative McMorris Rodgers about these changes that could dramatically and negatively affect the lives of those who depend on these devices. In September of 2014, more than 200 Members of the House and Senate—Democrats and Republicans—sent a letter to CMS to investigate this arbitrary decision. After CMS addressed only one of their concerns, Steve traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with the heads of CMS, Medicare and legislative leaders on what could be done when legislation was noted as the only the solution. Click here for a full timeline of the Gleason Act from start to finish. # # #
05.13.2017	This Op-Ed was orginally published in the Journal Inquirer on May 13, 2017. It can be viewed here. By John B. Larson Beatrice Fox Auerbach was a remarkable woman by any standard, with enormous influence stemming from her leadership of the iconic G. Fox & Co. and her relationships with prominent political figures like Eleanor Roosevelt and Abe Ribicoff. So strong was that influence, that when the interstate highway system came of age during the Eisenhower administration, it was at her insistence that I-84 and I-91 in Hartford aligned to accommodate the business interests of New England’s largest department store. However good this alignment was for G. Fox at the time, it had unintended consequences that were not beneficial for the capital region’s transportation needs. It divided Hartford’s neighborhoods and cut off access to the riverfront. In East Hartford, the I-84/Route-2 interchange known as the “mixmaster,” displaced homeowners in the meadows, in an area equivalent to that of downtown Hartford. These problems are only further compounded by a deteriorating levee system that threatens both sides of the river in what could be a catastrophic event. A beltway system around the city was long ago proposed and rejected, and with limited room to widen I-84, building horizontally offers little relief and does not provide a long-term solution. That’s why a vertical solution is a better way to address our infrastructure needs. The vision is to tunnel I-84 from the Flatbush Avenue area in Hartford to the Roberts Street area in East Hartford and I-91 in Hartford from Riverside Park area to the MDC treatment facility in the meadows. The Connecticut Department of Transportation is working on the realignment of the I-84 and I-91 interchange that is bottlenecked on the Bulkeley Bridge and is committed to fast-tracking a study of this concept. This tunnel approach has enormous benefits. It would be a turnkey operation, keeping the existing Aetna viaduct open during tunnel construction, preventing a costly shutdown of our city. When completed, the Bulkeley Bridge, the Founders Bridge, and the Charter Oak Bridge would be repurposed into boulevards that accommodate local vehicle traffic, transit, pedestrians, and bikes. It will open up 150 acres in Hartford, East Hartford, and along the Connecticut River for development and open space, making these communities livable and accessible. This new vibrant urban core with intermodal connectivity will attract and retain residents and businesses. This plan also allows us to repair our eroding levee systems before a tragedy happens. The Army Corps of Engineers has identified worrisome vulnerabilities due to I-91’s configuration on the land side of the flood walls. The civil engineering term known “underseepage” needs to be fixed by restoring the land-side gradient. Tunneling allows us to do that. Not only will tunneling protect the city from the threat of flooding but it will also open up greater access to the river, a 50-year vision of Riverfront Recapture. The I-84/I-91 interchange carries 275,000 vehicles a day — comparable to the traffic of the George Washington Bridge. A significant portion of these vehicles are passing through the city, causing severe congestion for Connecticut residents that would be alleviated through tunneling. Directing those vehicles through a tunnel bypass would allow traffic to flow smoothly without clogging up local roads in Hartford. Hartford sits on bedrock made of Jurassic basalt — ideal for tunnel construction. At this moment, the MDC is beginning work on a 4-mile long water conveyance tunnel that will be built below Hartford without disturbing the surface. While tunnels may cost more in the short term than replacing the viaduct, they address the I-84/I-91 interchange capacity issue, remove the barriers dividing our cities, and repair the crumbling levee system, therefore being more cost-effective for the future. In January, I hosted a delegation from Connecticut for a workshop with the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Build America Bureau. This workshop demonstrated that projects like this are possible with a combination of traditional funding and innovative financing. Most importantly, we learned that this can be done if we coordinate our efforts. The General Assembly is taking up legislation to advance this project. The reception from the public has been overwhelmingly positive. This plan has support from business leaders and stakeholders, including local, state, and federal officials. I look forward to continuing to work with ConnDOT and to gather feedback from the public to move this concept forward. Elected officials need to work collaboratively on behalf of citizens to improve their lives. This 100-year vision provides an opportunity to build a truly livable community for generations to come. I envision a transportation system that unites us, not divides us, where you can walk directly from a National Park at Coltsville to the river without crossing an eight-lane highway. Together, we can help in the transformation of Hartford, East Hartford, and the entire region. The writer is the U.S. representative for the 1st District.
05.09.2017	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump dismissed FBI Director, James Comey: "The firing of FBI Director James Comey should renew every American and every Member of Congress's call for an independent investigation into Russian involvement. As Lindsay Graham stated, it shouldn't be about Democrat or Republican, it should be about America," said Larson. ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the passage of the repeal of the Affordable Care Act, Larson voted “No”: “This bill was about tax cuts and not about the health care of the American people. Consider the fact that the 400 wealthiest Americans will receive, on average, a $7 million tax cut, while 24 million people will lose their health insurance. “For the Republicans, repealing the Affordable Care Act has been likened to the passing of gallstones. In the face of town halls, where the American people soundly rejected their proposals, they chose to pass the bill rather than to continue to face the pain of the American people. Considering they did so without any Congressional Budget Office review of their bill’s cost nor with thorough debate, it was completed in haste and sharp contrast to everything they said they would do. “The most galling aspect, however, as FDR once stated, they are ‘frozen in the ice of their own indifference’ as they are willing to watch 24 million Americans lose their coverage and the millions who will lose their insurance due to pre-existing conditions and subsequently put into high-risk pools. Dorothy Thompson from Manchester, CT said it best at one of my recent town hall meetings, ‘these high risk pools sound like a death panel to me.’ “Again, this bill was about tax cuts and not about the health care of the American people.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement following the passage of the omnibus appropriations bill in the House that will fund the government through the remainder of fiscal year 2017: “I am pleased that we were able to pass a bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill that will provide federal agencies and our military with adequate funding for the remainder of the fiscal year without any poison pill riders. In particular, I am glad that Connecticut's manufacturing priorities have been met with funds made available for 74 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, 62 UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters, and funds a shipbuilding base. This bill also includes funding for the National Institutes of Health, which received a $2 billion increase. However, while it is important to keep the government running, we need to focus on what is truly important, and that is providing jobs for Americans,” said Larson. “We need to do more than just keeping the government open and funded; we need to focus on providing opportunities for Americans to get back to work. I will continue to push for legislation that helps working families and creates jobs.” ###
05.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act was favorably reported out of the House Judiciary Committee: “First responders are the Nation's front line of defense here at home. Whether they are responding to a terrorist attack, natural disaster, or traffic accident, our police, firefighters and emergency medical personnel (EMS) are always the first to answer the call and selflessly put their lives in the harm’s way to protect our communities and our nation. In the unfortunate times when the ultimate sacrifice is given, they deserve the respect of having our Nation's flag flown at half-staff. Amending the Flag Code is the least we can do. I would like to especially thank our Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, and our lead cosponsors, some of whom are former first responders themselves,” said Rep. Larson. “Our first responders always put themselves in harm’s way. Unfortunately too many have made the ultimate sacrifice and lost their lives. This legislation will provide a very small but important way to show a nation’s appreciation in a timely and respectful manner,” said Rep. King. “Our first responders risk their lives every day to keep us safe,” said Rep. Reichert. “For this and all the sacrifices they make on our behalf, we can never thank them enough. Lowering the American flag to half-staff to honor and recognize the service of a brave first responder who died in the line of duty is one small, but important way to show our appreciation for those who answer the call to serve. Giving governors the authority to pay tribute to their local heroes is the right thing to do.” “As a co-chair of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus and Law Enforcement Caucus, I am proud to join my friend Congressman John Larson in honoring the brave first responders who put their lives on the line each and every day to keep us safe by supporting the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act. This bill allows the courageous men and women who run into danger to be honored by having a flag flown at half-staff should they make the ultimate sacrifice while serving in the line of duty,” said Rep. Pascrell. “We owe out deepest gratitude and respect to our nation’s first responders; the brave men and women who put their lives on the line every single day to serve and protect our communities and families,” Rep. Walz said. “The devastating truth is that there are days when a first responder’s life is tragically cut short in the line of duty. By flying of the flag at half-staff, we make a small but powerful gesture that honors the service and sacrifice of that fallen hero.” Larson first introduced the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act in the 112thCongress. The inspiration for this legislation came from Jim McLoughlin, a veteran Hartford firefighter, who founded the National Honor Guard Commanders Association. This legislation has been supported by major national first responder organizations, including all three of the congressional first responder caucuses. Larson reintroduced this bill in April with help of the lead cosponsors, Reps. Peter King (NY-02), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Tim Walz (MN-01), C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), John Rutherford (FL-04), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), and Raul Grijalva (AZ-03). Senator Jon Tester (MT) will be introducing a companion bill in the Senate. The flag code was last amended in 2007 by the Army Specialist Joseph P. Micks Federal Flag Code Amendment Act (Public Law 110-41) that expanded the criteria when a Governor can order the flag to be lowered to half-staff to include members of the Armed Forces who die while serving on active duty. Supported by: International Association of Fire Fighters; International Association of Fire Chiefs; Congressional Fire Services Institute; Fraternal Order of Police; Sergeants Benevolent Association; Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association; National Association of Police Organizations; National Fallen Firefighters Foundation; Major County Sheriff’s Association; National Volunteer Fire Council; National Honor Guard Commanders Association; National Honor Guard Academy; National Fire Academy Alumni Association; California Fire Foundation; Illinois Fire Chiefs Association; Ohio Fire Chiefs Association; Virginia Fire Chiefs Association; and Local Assistance State Teams (LAST) in Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and Virginia. ###
05.02.2017	Representatives John Larson (CT-01), Ted Deutch (FL-22), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), and Doris Matsui (CA-06) led over 100 of their colleagues in a letter to President Trump urging him to protect Social Security by rejecting any proposal that would cut or eliminate premiums in the form of payroll contributions, thus weakening dedicated funding to the Social Security Trust Funds. "Throughout your campaign for president you promised the American people that you would not cut Social Security," the letter reads. "We strongly urge you to keep that promise." These direct payments have been part of the Social Security structure since its enactment in 1935 and ensure that the program has a dedicated funding stream. As the letter explains, "Social Security keeps 22 million Americans—including one million children—out of poverty. Ending Social Security’s connection between work and the benefits it provides would cut the legs out from the most resilient retirement program in America, and jeopardize the protections it provides to disabled Americans and families after the death of a provider." The text of the letter can be found below. Dear Mr. President: We are very concerned with reports that you are considering weakening Social Security by cutting or eliminating the source of its dedicated revenue: premiums, in the form of payroll deductions, paid by workers and their employers. Moving away from premiums supported by work would destroy the integrity of Social Security as a form of retirement, disability and survivor insurance and would open the door to significant Social Security cuts in the future. We urge you to reject this dangerous proposal to undermine Social Security. As strong supporters of Social Security, we understand how important these earned benefits are to retirees who rely on Social Security as the foundation of a safe and secure retirement, as well as to workers and their families in the event of disability or premature death. Social Security keeps 22 million Americans—including one million children—out of poverty. Ending Social Security’s connection between work and the benefits it provides would cut the legs out from the most resilient retirement program in America, and jeopardize the protections it provides to disabled Americans and families after the death of a provider. This proposal is a Trojan horse: under the guise of modest middle-class tax relief, it would open the door for large benefit cuts that would have devastating consequences for seniors, disabled workers and their families in the future. Dedicated employee contributions, visibly deducted from paychecks and matched dollar-for-dollar by employers, have been a part of the structure of Social Security since its enactment in 1935. These payments are not mere taxes. Rather, they are premiums that purchase Social Security’s insurance against the loss of wages in the event of disability, death, or old age. As President Roosevelt said, “We put those payroll contributions there so as to give the contributors a legal, moral and political right to collect their pensions.” Eliminating these direct payments would eliminate the visible link between contributions and benefits. Moreover, because Social Security’s revenue is dedicated—meaning that the Social Security Trust Funds are exclusively used for the payment of benefits—and because Social Security has no borrowing authority, Social Security does not add a penny to the deficit. Substituting general revenue for Social Security’s dedicated revenue would ensure that Social Security will be on the chopping block in every budget and deficit-reduction debate—a stark and destabilizing change. Throughout your campaign for president you promised the American people that you would not cut Social Security. We strongly urge you to keep that promise. The promises we make as Americans through Social Security—to protect workers from a career-ending disability, to shield families after the death of a breadwinner, and to help retirees maintain their standard of living after they leave the workforce—are promises we have kept as a nation for over 80 years. Instead of radically altering Social Security’s financing, we urge you to build on the successes of Social Security as the greatest tool we have to protect the economic security of every American. We ask that you work with us to build a more secure middle class, strengthen America’s greatest insurance program, and expand the benefits earned through Social Security. Like so many of our constituents, we are proud of Social Security. This remarkably successful program binds us together as Americans and protects the financial security of American workers. Help us keep this sacred promise to our fellow Americans by refusing to sever the tie between hard-earned benefits and the hard work of the American people. Sincerely,
04.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement after Treasury Secretary, Steven Mnuchin, unveiled President Trump’s tax reform proposal: “This is not a tax reform proposal, this is an outline of a wish list, that favors the wealthiest 1 percent. What Congress needs is a plan, and one that does not continue to squeeze the middle class,” said Larson. “In his first 100 days the President has failed to put the nation back to work, is calling to take 24 million Americans off of healthcare, and has yet to create a single job. Any reform proposal needs thoughtful consultation, an open process, and hearings, so that the public may see the details in depth and not just more tweets and outlines and wish lists. None of which help the middle class. ###
04.26.2017	(Remarks as prepared) Social Security is a sacred compact made with the American public: hard-working men and women pay into this important insurance program, and they know they can count on it for security in retirement, or if they face disability or premature death. We owe the 61 million Social Security beneficiaries efficient administration and our most robust efforts to combat fraud, waste, and abuse where it exists. While the actual number of fraud and erroneous payment cases is relatively small -- those who seek to defraud the Social Security Administration and the beneficiaries they serve, deserve nothing less than the harshest punishment. That is why I would like to thank my friend Chairman Sam Johnson for today’s important hearing. Many of the actions the Social Security Administration has already taken to combat fraud were the result of bipartisan efforts here in Congress. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 included a dozen separate provisions aimed at fighting fraud and reducing errors and overpayments. These ideas came from different proposals introduced by Chairman Johnson and my predecessor, Xavier Becerra, and drew from recommendations from Social Security and its Inspector General. The reforms included establishing stronger penalties for those who engage in a conspiracy to commit fraud – making it a felony punishable by 5 years in prison and fines of $250,000. For persons who abuse public positions of trust – such as doctors, attorneys, current or former SSA employees – the law increased the penalty to 10 years in prison. Remember that it was the frontline Social Security Administration employees who often discovered and reported patterns of fraudulent behavior. The same staff that is being lost due to cuts to the Social Security Administration’s operating budget. Consider that 7 million new beneficiaries have entered the system since 2010 and that Social Security’s operating budget has fallen by 10 percent in that same time period. While Congress has dedicated funding to the Social Security Administration’s integrity programs to investigate fraud – we continue to provide less and less for basic frontline services – processing benefit applications, conducting appeals hearings, answering phone calls and helping constituents in-person at local field offices. Failing to provide a sufficient operating budget for the Social Security Administration does nothing to preserve the integrity of Social Security – rather it actively contributes to the problem. Regarding the continued integrity of the system, I’d like to speak to another issue that may come before our committee. It has been reported by the AP, the LA Times, and others that the White House may be pushing for the elimination of the payroll tax as a part of the tax reform blueprint that Chairman Brady and the Speaker are pursuing. Social Security’s greatest strength is that it is not an entitlement. It is an insurance program that workers and their employers have paid into through what is essentially premium payments. That link between the premiums that people pay into the system and the benefits they receive when they retire or lose their ability to work – is essential. Breaking that fundamental principle weakens the public’s support and understanding of Social Security. If enacted, the elimination of the payroll tax will serve as a Trojan Horse through which future benefit cuts will be justified and enacted. I ask the Chairman and my colleagues to join with me in protecting and enhancing America’s greatest insurance program, Social Security. ###
04.24.2017	(Hartford, CT) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today announced a $5.5 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to support Connecticut efforts to combat the opioid epidemic. The funding is the first of two rounds from the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, signed into law by President Barack Obama in December. The law included emergency federal funding to fight opioid addiction, as well as significant reforms to the mental health system and funding for medical research on cancer and other diseases. “These federal dollars are a major milestone in combating the epidemic of opioid abuse, but it is only a first step. No community is immune from this crisis—a painful reality we witness every day in towns across Connecticut. Sustained federal action is needed to address this public health catastrophe. We will continue to work with colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle to protect access to lifesaving treatment, and to ensure additional funding and support for the programs and services so critical to this fight,” said the Connecticut Congressional Delegation.
04.14.2017	Manchester, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the winner of the First Congressional District Art Competition at the Dehn Gallery at MCC on Main. The competition is open to high school students in Connecticut’s First District. This was the largest showing to date, with 9 schools participating. Kristin Smith of Northwestern Regional High School District No. 7 in Winsted took home the top prize. As this year’s winner, Smith’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and she will receive a trip down to Washington for the installation as well as a $3,000 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. “Congratulations to Kristin on winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition, and congratulations to everyone who participated, by sharing your talents, you are all brightening your communities,” said Larson. “This competition is something that I look forward to every year. The arts are vitally important to our society, I encourage you all to continue to follow your passion.” The judges also awarded 7 honorable mentions to: Lillian Lee – Wethersfield High School Julian Encarnacion - Wethersfield High School Yihan Wang – The Gilbert School Manon Michel – CT International Baccalaureate Academy Annalicia Fischer - The Gilbert School Jayna Mikolaitis – Glastonbury High School Charlotte Heuschkel - CT International Baccalaureate Academy The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 to allow members of Congress the opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talents of the youth in their communities. Since its creation, over 650,000 students nationwide have participated in the competition. ###
04.13.2017	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the announcement by Connecticut Governor, Dannel Malloy, that he would not be seeking a third term: “I have enormous respect for Governor Malloy. The entire state has a deep appreciation for his guidance through the most difficult time in the state’s history, in the aftermath of the tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary. In these difficult times, he always led with principle-centered leadership. I thank him for his service to the State of Connecticut,” said Larson. ###
04.13.2017	HARTFORD – After U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents deceptively suggested they were local police to try to detain a woman in Hartford, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) led a letter on Thursday, signed by U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), to Secretary of Homeland Security John Kelly urging him to direct all agents to clearly identify themselves as ICE officers. Mutual trust between law enforcement officials and local residents is critical to reducing crime and keeping communities safe. “We write to request that you direct U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers who are working on non-undercover duty to wear clothing and equipment that clearly indicates that they are ICE officers and not local police,” wrote the members. “Our local law enforcement agencies work hard to develop public trust in the communities they serve, and those relationships are critical to maintaining public safety, law, and order. If residents in our communities, particularly our immigrant communities, become fearful that police officers are there to target rather than protect them, public safety will suffer and crimes will be more likely to go unreported. Further, a lack of clarity about which law enforcement agencies are on the scene and authorized to engage during a crime, violent altercation, or criminal investigation creates potentially dangerous confusion for both the public and local police agencies. Following the incident in Hartford, Hartford Police Chief James Rovella remarked, “All law enforcement officials, not acting in an undercover capacity, working in our community should be readily identified by the agencies that they represent. ICE agents should not identify as local police as it is misleading and can damage the important relationship with our local communities.” A copy of the letter can be found here and is pasted below. April 13, 2017 The Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary of Homeland Security Washington DC 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly, We write to request that you direct U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers who are working on non-undercover duty to wear clothing and equipment that clearly indicates that they are ICE officers and not local police. Our local law enforcement agencies work hard to develop public trust in the communities they serve, and those relationships are critical to maintaining public safety, law, and order. If residents in our communities, particularly our immigrant communities, become fearful that police officers are there to target rather than protect them, public safety will suffer and crimes will be more likely to go unreported. Further, a lack of clarity about which law enforcement agencies are on the scene and authorized to engage during a crime, violent altercation, or criminal investigation creates potentially dangerous confusion for both the public and local police agencies. Most other federal law enforcement officers perform their duties with clear identification and without identifying themselves as simply “police.” For example, Federal Bureau of Investigations officers—who, like ICE agents, often work in our communities in potentially dangerous situations as federal law enforcement agents—wear uniforms and clothing that clearly indicate their FBI affiliation. When ICE agents enter communities with clothing and equipment that deceptively suggests they are local police, it erodes public trust in local law enforcement, makes it more difficult for local police to build relationships with the communities they serve, and inserts a dangerous potential for confusion. Connecticut police chiefs share our concerns. As Hartford Police Chief James Rovella remarked after a recent incident involving ICE officers who identified themselves only as police, “all law enforcement officials, not acting in an undercover capacity, working in our community should be readily identified by the agencies that they represent. ICE agents should not identify as local police as it is misleading and can damage the important relationship with our local communities.” We strongly believe that in order to keep communities safe, people must feel comfortable coming forward if they are a victim of or witness to a crime. When residents trust the police, law enforcement agencies are able to direct their limited resources to respond to threats posed by truly dangerous criminals. We know you share our commitment to public safety, and therefore urge you to listen to our concerns and those of local law enforcement officers by directing ICE officers to wear properly identifying clothing and equipment when working in local communities. Thank you for the important work you do in protecting U.S. security. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Christopher S. Murphy United States Senator Richard Blumenthal United States Senator John B. Larson Member of Congress Joe Courtney Member of Congress Rosa L. DeLauro Member of Congress Jim Himes Member of Congress Elizabeth H. Esty Member of Congress
04.07.2017	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the chemical attack in Syria and the U.S. missile strike in response: "Given the horrific event of this week, President Trump's action was proportionate and appropriate. However, this further underscores, Congress's blatant abdication of its responsibilities. Even if it means coming back from Easter recess, Congress should take up an authorization of use of military force and debate on a long term plan and a scope of authorities it would take to stop further atrocities, instead of simply yielding this congressional duty to the Executive Branch. Congress is being negligent in its constitutional obligation," said Larson. Larson has previously called for an international engagement to address the use of chemical weapons in Syria, his statement can be viewed here.
04.05.2017	Washington – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), the Ranking Member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Social Security, introduced the ‘Social Security 2100 Act’, HR 1902. This bill will cut taxes for Social Security recipients, provide a benefit bump for current and future beneficiaries, and keep the system strong for generations to come. “Social Security is not an entitlement – it’s the insurance Americans have paid for to fund retirement, disability, and survivor benefits through a lifetime of work. Seniors depend on Social Security and no one should be able retire into poverty. I am committed to taking common sense steps to expand benefits and to make the system solvent for the next 75 years and beyond. The Social Security 2100 Act, will do just that, without adding to the national debt. Social Security is the most successful program in American history, it is time to expand it for the future. This bill will secure your future, your family, and our nation.” said Larson. "Social Security, the foundation of our nation's social insurance system, is absolutely essential for workers and their families. With retirement security and other worker protections eroding, Social Security's benefits must become stronger to meet the challenges of a changing labor market. Social Security 2100 provides important provisions that protect our nation's most vulnerable," said Dr. Maya Rockeymoore, Center for/Global Policy Solutions. “I applaud Representative Larson for his visionary leadership on the vital issue of Social Security,” said Nancy Altman, President of Social Security Works. "His Social Security 2100 Act wisely responds to several challenges facing the nation. These include a looming retirement income crisis, a growing squeeze on middle class families, and rising income inequality. Among other important improvements, this landmark legislation increases benefits for all current and future beneficiaries; ensures that those who work their whole lives will not retire into poverty, and switches to a more accurate cost of living adjustment, the CPI-E, so that Social Security's modest benefits do not erode over time. The Larson bill pays for all benefit increases while restoring Social Security to long-range balance. In that way, the Social Security 2100 Act ensures that every penny of promised Social Security benefits, including the increases, can be paid in full and on time through the 21st century and beyond, just as they always have been paid." “Paralyzed Veterans of America (PVA) is pleased to support the Social Security 2100 Act. Representing veterans who benefit from this vital social insurance program in some way, we are keenly aware that our members, like millions of other Americans, rely on Social Security to afford them a secure retirement, protect their survivors and dependents, or enable them to manage living with a disability with dignity. The Social Security 2100 Act demonstrates that preserving and strengthening Social Security can be done without causing harm to beneficiaries,” said Carl Blake, Associate Executive Director, Paralyzed Veterans of America. “The Social Security 2100 Act is not only for the people, it’s of the people. For years, beneficiaries have been telling us they are having a difficult time paying for basic needs like healthcare, housing and utilities. Most if not all of their income is from Social Security and while they are grateful to have it, an average of $1340 a month just isn’t enough. Retirees, the disabled and their surviving families desperately need a boost to their Social Security benefits. Congressman Larson’s bill smartly addresses that need while also extending the program’s long term solvency. We are pleased to endorse his bill and to commit the full weight of our millions of members and supporters towards getting this bill passed,” said Max Richtman, President and CEO, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. “The Social Security 2100 Act will make our Social Security system stronger for all Americans, including the over 57 million children, adults, and seniors who live with disabilities across the United States. The Arc applauds Representative Larson and cosponsors for their leadership in introducing a bill that will boost the economic security of workers and their families and extend Social Security’s solvency, to preserve the promise and impact of this incredibly important system to all Americans,” said Marty Ford, Senior Executive Officer for Public Policy, The Arc of the United States. "Millions of older adults, people with disabilities, and their families rely on Social Security to ensure their basic needs for shelter, food, and other requirements are met. The Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) Social Security Task Force supports Representative Larson’s bill, which would expand benefits, including minimum benefits for low-income workers, to guarantee that those who rely on Social Security can make ends meet, while also increasing the solvency of the Social Security Trust Fund," said Kate Lang of Justice in Aging, a co-chair of the CCD Social Security Task Force. The Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 1902, provides the following: -Tax cut for over 10 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits -Benefit bump beginning in 2018 for current and new beneficiaries -Protection for low income workers by raising the minimum benefit from below the poverty line to 25% above -Long term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula Social Security remains the single most reliable program for middle class Americans and is expected to pay full benefits over the next two decades. With common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can boost this vital program now and ensure Social Security remains strong well into the future. Current cosponsors of the Social Security 2100 Act include: 1. Alma Adams 2. Pete Aguilar 3. Nanette Barragán 4. Karen Bass 5. Joyce Beatty 6. Ami Bera 7. Donald Beyer 8. Sanford Bishop 9. Earl Blumenauer 10. Lisa Blunt Rochester 11. Suzanne Bonamici 12. Brendan Boyle 13. Robert Brady 14. G.K Butterfield 15. Michael Capuano 16. Salud Carbajal 17. Tony Cárdenas 18. André Carson 19. Matt Cartwright 20. Kathy Castor 21. Joaquin Castro 22. Judy Chu 23. David Cicilline 24. Katherine Clark 25. Yvette Clarke 26. Wm. Lacy Clay 27. Emanuel Cleaver 28. James Clyburn 29. Steve Cohen 30. Gerald Connolly 31. John Conyers 32. J. Luis Correa 33. Joe Courtney 34. Joseph Crowley 35. Henry Cuellar 36. Elijah Cummings 37. Danny Davis 38. Peter DeFazio 39. Rosa DeLauro 40. Suzan DelBene 41. Val Demings 42. Mark DeSaulnier 43. Theodore Deutch 44. Debbie Dingell 45. Lloyd Doggett 46. Michael Doyle 47. Keith Ellison 48. Eliot Engel 49. Anna Eshoo 50. Elizabeth Esty 51. Dwight Evans 52. Lois Frankel 53. Marcia Fudge 54. Tulsi Gabbard 55. Ruben Gallego 56. John Garamendi 57. Vicente Gonzalez 58. Al Green 59. Gene Green 60. Raúl Grijalva 61. Luis Gutiérrez 62. Colleen Hanabusa 63. Alcee Hastings 64. Denny Heck 65. Brian Higgins 66. Jared Huffman 67. Sheila Jackson Lee 68. Pramila Jayapal 69. Hakeem Jeffries 70. Eddie Bernice Johnson 71. Hank Johnson 72. Marcy Kaptur 73. William Keating 74. Robin Kelly 75. Joseph Kennedy 76. Ro Khanna 77. Ruben Kihuen 78. Daniel Kildee 79. Derek Kilmer 80. Ann Kuster 81. James Langevin 82. Brenda Lawrence 83. Al Lawson 84. Barbara Lee 85. Sandy Levin 86. John Lewis 87. Ted Lieu 88. Zoe Lofgren 89. Alan Lowenthal 90. Ben Ray Luján 91. Michelle Lujan Grisham 92. Stephen Lynch 93. Sean Patrick Maloney 94. Doris Matsui 95. Betty McCollum 96. Don McEachin 97. James McGovern 98. Jerry McNerney 99. Gregory Meeks 100. Grace Meng 101. Gwen Moore 102. Seth Moulton 103. Jerrold Nadler 104. Grace Napolitano 105. Richard Neal 106. Richard Nolan 107. Donald Norcross 108. Eleanor Holmes Norton 109. Beto O'Rourke 110. Frank Pallone 111. Jimmy Panetta 112. Bill Pascrell 113. Donald Payne 114. Ed Perlmutter 115. Collin Peterson 116. Chellie Pingree 117. Stacey Plaskett 118. Mark Pocan 119. Mike Quigley 120. Jamie Raskin 121. Cedric Richmond 122. Lucille Roybal-Allard 123. Raul Ruiz 124. Dutch Ruppersberger 125. Bobby Rush 126. Tim Ryan 127. Linda Sánchez 128. John Sarbanes 129. Janice Schakowsky 130. Bobby Scott 131. David Scott 132. José Serrano 133. Terri Sewell 134. Carol Shea-Porter 135. Brad Sherman 136. Albio Sires 137. Louise Slaughter 138. Jackie Speier 139. Thomas R Suozzi 140. Eric Swalwell 141. Mark Takano 142. Mike Thompson 143. Bennie Thompson 144. Dina Titus 145. Paul Tonko 146. Juan Vargas 147. Marc Veasey 148. Filemon Vela 149. Nydia Velázquez 150. Timothy Walz 151. Debbie Wasserman Schultz 152. Maxine Waters 153. Bonnie Watson Coleman 154. Peter Welch 155. Frederica Wilson 156. John Yarmuth Additional quotes, a fact sheet, endorsements, bill language and more are available online here: https://larson.house.gov/social-security-2100 ###
03.31.2017	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Dylan Rispoli, a junior at Northwest Catholic High School from Windsor, CT, with the Silver and Bronze Congressional Award medals. “Dylan has gone out of his comfort zone and challenged himself to achieve both the Silver and Bronze Congressional Award. It is inspiring to see someone so young, be so ambitious. I am proud to have a student like him in the First District,” said Larson. Dylan is receiving both the Silver and Bronze Congressional Award medals for achieving his goals in voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. To meet each of his goals, Dylan volunteered at Foodshare, he joined his school’s Mock Trial Team to improve his public speaking, he improved his 5k race time, and planned a hike that went into the White Mountains. The Congressional Award was established by Congress in 1979. It recognizes students who have committed to bettering and challenging themselves and to give back to their local communities. ###
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today, Representative John Larson (CT-01), and U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Representatives Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) sent a letter to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) asking that they implement a Special Enrollment Period (SEP) to protect patient care if UnitedHealthcare Group and Hartford HealthCare are unable to agree on contract terms. UnitedHealthcare offers Medicare Advantage Plans in Connecticut that contracts with the Hartford HealthCare provider network that extends to roughly a third of the state of Connecticut. Due to an impasse in contract negotiations between UnitedHealthcare and Hartford HealthCare, patients are at risk of termination of critical medical care at midnight on April 14, 2017. “The impact of a loss of Hartford HealthCare services for these 5,000 Medicare Advantage enrollees can only be described as a significant disruption,” wrote the delegation members. “Without a Special Enrolment Period, these members will be forced to select new primary care providers, new specialists, and familiarize themselves with new facilities, many of which will be outside of their communities and which may not offer the services they receive at Hartford HealthCare. Allowing these beneficiaries to choose any other Medicare Advantage plan offered in Connecticut will allow these patients to maintain their ongoing relationships with their providers. This is especially important for those beneficiaries going through treatment for acute and chronic conditions. “Given the substantial disruption beneficiaries will face should UnitedHealthcare and Hartford HealthCare fail to reach an agreement by April 15, 2017, we encourage CMS to offer these beneficiaries the opportunity to choose a Medicare Advantage Plan with providers that meet their needs by offering a Special Enrollment Period. Due to the fact that our constituents may face these changes immediately if an agreement is not reached, we ask that you notify us of your decision by April 17, 2017. If an SEP is not going to be granted, we ask that you meet with us to discuss the reasons you will not utilize your authority in that way to prevent needless disruptions of care to thousands of seniors in Connecticut.” The full letter is below and available online March 31, 2017 Ms. Seema Verma, Administrator Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 7500 Security Bouldevard Baltimore, Maryland 21244 Re: UnitedHealthCare Medicare Advantage Termination of Hartford HealthCare Provider Network Dear Ms. Verma: We are writing to you regarding an urgent matter that could disrupt healthcare services for thousands of Connecticut patients in the UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage Program. By way of context, UnitedHealthcare offers a Medicare Advantage program in Connecticut that contracts with Hartford HealthCare, a hospital system that extends to roughly a third of the state of Connecticut. Right now, due to an impasse in contract negotiations between UnitedHealthcare and Hartford HealthCare, patients are at risk of termination of critical medical care at midnight on April 14, 2017. While we are not writing to comment on the merits of either party’s bargaining positions, we ask that you implement a Special Enrollment Period (SEP) to protect patient care if the parties are unable to agree and these mid-year network changes come into effect. Hartford HealthCare provides services to thousands of UnitedHealthcare Medicare Advantage patients – approximately 5,000 see a primary care physician based at Hartford HealthCare. Although negotiations are ongoing between the two parties, on March 14, 2017 UnitedHealthcare abruptly informed their enrollees in the commercial and Medicare Advantage sectors of the termination of Hartford HealthCare’s 5 hospitals, 3 skilled nursing facilities, home care services, surgery centers and nearly 2,000 medical professionals from their network as of April 15, 2017. As you can imagine, this has caused significant anxiety for patients who are in the midst of treatment at these facilities, or simply expected to have the option to see Hartford HealthCare physicians throughout the 2017 benefit year. For example, an 80-year-old cancer patient in Connecticut, who is undergoing chemotherapy slated to continue through June 2017, received 14 separate letters from UnitedHealthcare in Hot Springs, AR stating that his 14 different physicians were being ejected from his Medicare Advantage plan. Per changes announced in the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) CY2015 Call Letter, an insurance carrier offering Medicare Advantage Plans is required to inform you 90 days prior to contract expiration of their potential termination of a network of providers. The same document outlines CMS’ discretion to allow for a Special Enrollment Period (SEP) following “substantial mid-year provider network terminations”. Given the high number of patients being stranded by UnitedHealthcare’s abrupt termination, we strongly believe that this action constitutes “substantial mid-year provider terminations.” Therefore, we urge CMS to grant an SEP to the enrollees in UnitedHealthcare MedicareComplete Plan 3 (HMO). The impact of a loss of Hartford HealthCare services for these 5,000 Medicare Advantage enrollees can only be described as a significant disruption. Without an SEP, these members will be forced to select new primary care providers, new specialists, and familiarize themselves with new facilities, many of which will be outside of their communities and which may not offer the services they receive at Hartford HealthCare. Allowing these beneficiaries to choose any other Medicare Advantage plan offered in Connecticut will allow these patients to maintain their ongoing relationships with their providers. This is especially important for those beneficiaries going through treatment for acute and chronic conditions. Given the substantial disruption beneficiaries will face should UnitedHealthcare and Hartford HealthCare fail to reach an agreement by April 15, 2017, we encourage CMS to offer these beneficiaries the opportunity to choose a Medicare Advantage Plan with providers that meet their needs by offering a Special Enrollment Period. Due to the fact that our constituents may face these changes immediately if an agreement is not reached, we ask that you notify us of your decision by April 17, 2017. If an SEP is not going to be granted, we ask that you meet with us to discuss the reasons you will not utilize your authority in that way to prevent needless disruptions of care to thousands of seniors in Connecticut. Sincerely, REP. JOHN B. LARSON SEN. RICHARD BLUMENTHAL SEN. CHRIS MURPHY REP. JOE COURTNEY REP. ROSA DELAURO REP. ELIZABETH ESTY cc: Marty O. Abeln Medicare Drug & Health Plan Contract Administration Group ###
03.29.2017	Washington, D.C. - "It is incomprehensible to me that after a foreign power attacks our country, in what former Vice-President Dick Cheney has said could be construed as an ‘act of war', that my Republican colleagues would vote no, on an bipartisan, independent, 9/11-style commission to investigate the Russian government's interference in our election," said Larson. "I am saddened to think that my Republican colleagues have put partisan politics ahead of something as fundamental to our democracy and all that we stand for as the electoral process of the nation."Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued this statement after House Republicans voted against a motion today to bring to the floor for consideration the Protecting Our Democracy Act (H.R. 356), which would establish an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate interference in the 2016 election by Russia or any other foreign entity. Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 356 along with the rest of the Connecticut House delegation.
03.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Ways and Means Republicans blocked Rep. Bill Pascrell’s (NJ-09) Resolution of Inquiry, in the Ways and Means Committee. This measure would require the Department of Treasury to release President Trump’s tax returns over the last ten years. “The decision by Ways and Means Republicans to block this Resolution of Inquiry is unacceptable. Since President Nixon was forced to release his tax returns in 1974 through a Resolution of Inquiry, every other President has released their tax returns. As a Committee and a co-equal branch of government, we must be united or as my Grandfather Nolan would say: Trust everyone, but cut the cards. In this case we may not only need to cut the cards, we may need a re-shuffle and a new deal,” said Larson.
03.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order directing his administration to roll back a number of key climate change regulations issued under the Obama Administration: “America always moves forward, not backwards on progress,” said Larson. “I strongly oppose this Executive Order, which flies in the face of the overwhelming scientific evidence that global warming is occurring and that we must protect the planet from the catastrophic effects of climate change. The United States should be a leader, not a polluter.” ###
03.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after TrumpCare was pulled from the House floor: “24 million American's health insurance was spared today, because of their actions. The overwhelming weight of their voices in Town Halls, in emails, and in phone calls is what gave the Republicans a pause. Repealing the Affordable Care Act would have had devastating consequences for Connecticut and the country. In the Ways and Means Committee's 18 hour mark-up of this bill Democrats introduced over 30 amendments to find common ground to improve this bill, but the Republicans did not accept a single Democratic amendment," said Larson. “We have to continue to be vigilant as we move forward. Hopefully, we will be able to work with some like-minded concerned Republicans, towards the best possible solution for the American people and not for political parties. As I’ve outlined in the past, some of the changes that should be made are: lowering the Medicare age to 50 years old, stabilizing the exchanges with a robust reinsurance program, and improving tax credits to ensure that coverage is more affordable. These aren’t all the changes that are needed, but they are a starting point towards making health insurance more affordable for all Americans.” ###
03.24.2017	U.S. Representative John Larson (D-1),U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and U.S. Representative Joe Courtney (D-2) are urging UnitedHealthcare not to put Connecticut seniors in the middle of its negotiations with Hartford Healthcare. . If contract negotiations between UnitedHealthcare and Hartford Healthcare fail, many physicians would no longer be considered in-network for Connecticut seniors on Medicare Advantage plans. This would force beneficiaries to either switch providers mid-year or pay out of pocket. In a letter to the CEO of UnitedHealth Group today, the lawmakers called on the health care company to take immediate steps to clarify the status of the negotiations to its beneficiaries, provide a call line that Connecticut residents can use to get further information about the status of their particular providers, and allow beneficiaries to continue seeing their provider of choice as an in-network provider until the end of the plan year if negotiations are not successful. “We understand that you are currently in negotiation with Hartford Healthcare regarding your contract and that it is possible that these providers will not be in network in a few weeks if negotiations fail, but that is not the message that was communicated to our constituents,” the lawmakers said. “It is wholly unfair for seniors to be put in the middle of those negotiations. We ask that constituents are made aware of what the impact on them will be and limit that impact to the best extent possible. If seniors cannot trust that their qualified doctors who are in-network when they sign up for their Medicare Advantage plans will be there throughout the plan year, it creates uncertainty as to whether they can rely on those plans.” The text of the letter is available here and below. Mr. Stephen Hemsley CEO UnitedHealth Group 701 Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest # 650 Washington, D.C. 20004 Dear Mr. Hemsley, We write out of concern for our constituents who have been notified by UnitedHealthcare that their physicians will be dropped from UnitedHealthcare networks beginning April 15, 2017, and that they will be required to switch providers or pay the full cost for the services you receive. We understand that you are currently in negotiation with Hartford Healthcare regarding your contract and that it is possible that these providers will not be in network in a few weeks if negotiations fail, but that is not the message that was communicated to our constituents. We urge you to take immediate steps to clarify the status of your negotiations to your beneficiaries, provide a call line that Connecticut residents can use to get further information about the status of their particular providers, and allow beneficiaries to continue seeing their provider of choice as an in-network provider until the end of the plan year if negotiations are not successful. These are constituents who have chosen to utilize a Medicare Advantage Plan to provide the services that Medicare is required to cover and although we understand that Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) has some notification requirements, we believe your priority must be in ensuring you provide accurate information, which would be consistent applicable regulations. When individuals choose to purchase a Medicare Advantage Plan through United Healthcare, they will likely have an idea that some plans come with more limited networks than others, but they do not expect to be told that those networks will be decimated in the middle of a plan year because of a failure for two companies to agree to contract terms. It is wholly unfair for seniors to be put in the middle of those negotiations. We ask that make sure that constituents are made aware of what the impact on them will be and limit that impact to the extent possible. If seniors cannot trust that their qualified doctors who are in-network when they sign up for their Medicare Advantage plans will be there throughout the plan year, it creates uncertainty as to whether they can rely on those plans. Thank you in advance for your consideration of this request. ###
03.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after it was revealed that Rep. Devin Nunes (CA-22), the Republican Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee shared information with the White House, before sharing it with the Committee: "This new revelation further exemplifies the need for an independent, non-partisan investigation on Russia and Russian interference in the U.S. elections and of their ties to the Trump Administration and to the Trump campaign," said Larson. "We need a 9/11 style independent commission, with people like Colin Powell, Sandra Day O'Connor, George Mitchell and Bill Bradley heading it up. Rep. Nunes' decision to share this information with the White House and not the House Intelligence Committee is unprecedented and concerning."
03.19.2017	This Op-Ed was orginally published in the Hartford Courant on March 19, 2017. It can be viewed here. By John B. Larson A man's beard has multiple connotations and evokes no shortage of curiosity and comment. The beard symbolizes themes of: masculinity, virility, religion, health and even superstition. My beard was born of the latter. But before I divulge the reason why I grew my beard, I would like to share some of the comments I received. My dear friend former state Sen. Billy Ciotto first wondered if I was having some sort of mid-life crisis. He further said that I looked like Maynard G. Krebs the famous beatnik on TV's "The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis" from back in the early '60s. He didn't think the beatnik look was congressional. My brother Tim, the state senator from East Hartford, asked, "Are you auditioning to be Santa at Nordstrom?" Then it was Mark Shienberg, president of Goodwin College, who presented me with a bright yellow slicker. A direct reference to the Gorton's of Gloucester fish stick man. More charitable reactions were discussions of Ernest Hemingway or even Kenny Rogers ... as in my case — you got know when to hold 'em and when to shave it. Those launching such barrages on my beard and peppering me with constant questions, however, were not onto the reason why I grew my rebellious whiskers. The true motive was in solidarity for Tom Brady and the New England Patriots — a mere superstitious tribute to the Pats. As I bore the brunt of others' barbs for brandishing my bristles, I knew that to shave the beard would jeopardize the Patriots' path to victory, put a jinx on them. So, I stayed true until that glorious Sunday in February. I'm not saying that my beard won the 2017 Super Bowl, but it didn't hurt their record-breaking comeback of 31 unanswered points to win 34-28. As I relished the afterglow of helping defeat the Atlanta Falcons, I knew it was time to trim my chin. And not to mention, truthfully, the damn thing itched. John B. Larson, a Democrat from East Hartford, represents Connecticut's 1st Congressional District.
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with Taoiseach (Prime Minister) Enda Kenny and Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams. “I had a productive roundtable discussion with Taoiseach (Prime Minister) Enda Kenny and the Sinn Féin President Gerry Adams regarding Brexit and a united Ireland,” said Larson. “I look forward to continuing to work with them to create a stronger American-Irish alliance.”
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump released his budget proposal: “A budget is a reflection of our values and I urge the President to rethink his priorities when he presents a full budget later this spring,” said Larson. “The American people want an efficient and effective government; however, gutting Federal Agencies like the US Department of State and the Environmental Protection Agency and eliminating programs like the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) and the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS) is a non-starter. Furthermore, federal funding for critical state programs like Meals on Wheels and affordable housing grants under the Department of Housing for Urban Development would suffer devastating cuts under the President’s budget. The President campaigned on rebuilding the nation with a trillion dollar infrastructure package, which is completely absent in this proposal. That's not what the American people were promised. The country is in need of a budget that is reflective of its needs.” ###
03.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2017 (VRIPA), a bipartisan bill that would provide a tax exemption on the benefits volunteer firefighters and emergency medical services (EMS) personnel receive from their communities. “Volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe,” said Larson. “These brave men and women should not be taxed on the small tokens of gratitude localities bestow in return for their selfless actions. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will help ease some of the burdens of our volunteer first responders’ experience. It is the least we can do when they already sacrifice so much. I thank Rep. Reichert for being a partner on this legislation for so many years and his continued leadership on this issue." “Firefighters and EMS personnel along with members of law enforcement are the individuals who come to our rescue when we are most in need,” said Reichert. “I know this to be true from my personal experience. Years ago a first responder came to my side and because of their help, I am here today. Like I learned long ago, these men and women are essential to the safety of our loved ones and to the security of our communities. Giving them much needed tax relief is the least we could do for individuals who are willing to run into a burning building or provide life-saving care on our behalf.” What They’re Saying: “On behalf of the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC) I’d like to thank Representatives David Reichert, John Larson and all of the bi-partisan original cosponsors for introducing this important legislation, which will help local emergency response agencies recruit and retain volunteer fire, EMS and rescue personnel," said NVFC chairman, Kevin D. Quinn. "On average a volunteer firefighter in the United States donates services worth more than $18,000 to the community that he or she serves every year. It is common sense to clarify that the nominal incentives that some volunteers receive in recognition of their service should not be taxed by the federal government." “We commend Congressman Reichert and Congressman Larson for introducing this important legislation," said Bill Webb, Executive Director of the Congressional Fire Services Institute. "They understand the immense sacrifices our nation's firefighters make every day to protect our communities. Passage of the Volunteer Incentive Protection Act will help the volunteer fire service with recruitment and retention by enabling volunteer firefighters to keep certain benefits provided by state and local authorities, rather than returning a portion of that amount to the Internal Revenue Service. That's good legislation for the fire service and for our local communities.” Rep. Larson first introduced the bill in the 107th Congress. The tax exemption was authorized in 2007 and expired in 2010. Since then, Rep. Larson has introduced a reauthorization bill in every Congress in order to bring back the exemption on the modest benefits volunteer responders receive. The legislation has received support from the Congressional Fire Services Institute, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Association of Towns and Townships and National Volunteer Fire Council. ###
03.15.2017	WASHINGTON – Building on a nearly decade-long, community-driven effort, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representative Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), joined by U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representative John Larson (CT-1), reintroduced their Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act to create a U.S. National Park Service protective designation for the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook. With protective designation as a “Wild and Scenic River,” the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook – which runs through ten Connecticut towns – would be eligible to receive as much as $100,000 in federal funding to support conservation efforts. “The Farmington River and Salmon Brook are some of Connecticut’s most treasured resources that provide natural beauty, support ecological diversity, and recreational opportunities for residents and visitors. I am pleased to join my colleagues in reintroducing this legislation to designate these rivers as ‘wild and scenic’. This designation is crucial in protecting this body of water for generations to come,” said Larson. “The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic Act is the product of years of hard work by passionate Connecticut residents who want to protect the natural beauty of our state. Congress should listen to them,” said Murphy. “I started working on this issue as soon as I got to Congress nearly 10 years ago, and we haven’t stopped fighting for it. I hope we’ll get this over the finish line soon.” “The Farmington River is an economic and environmental treasure for our state,” Esty said. “Families from across Connecticut and around the world travel to the Farmington River to enjoy the fishing, boating, and other recreational opportunities it offers. This bill is good for our communities, our economy, and our environment. By passing this bill, we can ensure that we preserve this environmental treasure for generations to come.” “This measure will help protect and preserve the Farmington River—a truly wild and scenic treasure that brings both economic and recreational benefits. I am hopeful that my colleagues will come together to ensure this precious natural resource receives this designation and much-needed federal resources, so the Farmington River can be enjoyed by many generations to come,” said Blumenthal. The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook runs through the following Connecticut towns: Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, Canton, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor. The upper portion of the river was given protected status in 1994. Larson, Murphy, Esty, and Blumenthal have introduced similar legislation previously, and have continuously pushed for the Lower Farmington River’s Wild & Scenic designation. Last year, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act for the first time ever. Former U.S. Representative Nancy Johnson, who was Murphy’s predecessor in the U.S. House of Representatives, helped enact legislation that initiated the study on which the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act is based. The study was completed in 2011 and confirmed the suitability of designating the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook as Wild & Scenic. ###
03.13.2017	Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after an analysis from the Connecticut Office of Policy and Management detailing how the Republican plan will impact Connecticut and the release of the Congressional Budget Office’s score of the bill were released: “The facts are now clear, as these analyses confirm, that the shift will occur in the cost for the elderly, in essence what is an age tax. This is confounding in light of the fact that the 400 wealthiest Americans will be receiving a tax cut,” said Larson. “The CBO’s numbers have shown that by 2026, 24 million less people will be insured and there will be immediate premium increases for Americans. For those in Connecticut over age 60, this bill would be particularly devastating with the average tax credit for coverage falling by $5,000. The Republican plan will also drastically cut Medicaid, harming seniors, persons with disabilities, children, and low-income parents. In the rush to put this bill forward, they are putting people at risk and by creating high risk pools, as Dorothy Thompson from Manchester, CT said, they are creating their own death panels with those pools.” The Impact on Trumpcare in Connecticut can be viewed here. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) is the official, nonpartisan scorekeeper that informs Congress and the public of the impact of legislation. The CBO score can be viewed here. ###
03.09.2017	Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) fought into the early morning hours of Thursday against the Republican health care proposal. This proposal would cause the average American to pay more money for less coverage and would give tax breaks to the nation’s wealthiest. “I was here 7 years ago when we heard, very poignantly, from the other side about what we were doing in fact to hurt Medicare, but the fact of the matter was, that we increased and enhanced Medicare. And to sit to here and realize that $170 billion and three years . . . of Medicare solvency go down the tubes is staggering . . . . That’s why the AARP has come out so strongly against this bill, is because what this does to Medicare. Medicare is the lifeline for so many of our seniors and then to cut the solvency by three years and then $170 billion so that people at the top end can get a tax break, are you kidding me? That is just flat-out immoral, illogical and wrong,” said Larson during the mark-up. The Republicans voted to move the bill forward, without including any Democratic amendments. This bill makes it more costly for average Americans to afford health insurance. It also reduces the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by three years and includes a $170 billion giveaway to the wealthy, including a tax cut averaging about $7 million for the 400 richest taxpayers. This proposal is a “relief and rescue plan” for the wealthy, not for the average American. Rep. Larson’s comments can be viewed here. ###
03.08.2017	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the GOP ACA Repeal proposal: “What the American people want is more affordable and more accessible healthcare. Instead of furthering those ends, the Republican proposal to repeal the Affordable Care Act takes $170 billion away from Medicare in order to pay for tax cuts for billionaires. Essentially, they are taking away money from the hard-working middle class in Connecticut’s First District to give tax breaks to the wealthy, like those in President Trump’s Cabinet. This is unacceptable,” said Larson. “On top of that, the process has been rushed, lacks transparency, and there isn’t even a CBO score that will allow us to understand the human impact of this proposal. They are being careless with the lives of millions and the American people will not stand for that.”
03.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump signed a revised travel ban: “Protecting our nation must always remain our top priority. However, the President’s executive order on the suspension of world-wide refugee processing and admissions of travelers from certain Muslim-majority countries is misguided. The order announced today again falls short of American values and only undermines our alliances in the fight against terrorism while emboldening radical terrorist groups like ISIL and Al Qaeda.” ###
03.06.2017	After hearing from concerned Connecticut residents and farmers that foreign-grown tobacco products are being mislabeled as “Connecticut” products, U.S. Representative John Larson (CT-1), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Representative Joe Courtney (CT-2) called on the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to take action to enforce existing regulations on tobacco labeling and prevent foreign competitors from undercutting Connecticut growers. In a letter addressed to FDA Acting Commissioner Dr. Stephen Ostroff and FTC Acting Chairman Maureen Ohlhausen, the members of Congress warned that the unfair and deceptive mislabeling practices of foreign growers is endangering the economic vitality of Connecticut’s tobacco growers. “We write to you today after hearing concerns from our constituents regarding the mislabeling of foreign cigar products. Connecticut shade tobacco seeds are now not only grown in Connecticut and other areas of the Northeast, but also in Ecuador and other parts of Central and Latin America…,” wrote the members of Congress. “The uniqueness of Connecticut shade tobacco is due to the specific environment in which it is grown. Given existing authorities and the responsibilities of your agencies, we urge you to investigate the misbranding of Connecticut shade tobacco products and take action to curb this deceptive practice. While there are myriad challenges facing farmers, being undercut by foreign growers is a clear threat to the long-term viability of the Connecticut shade tobacco industry.” The full text of the letter is available online and below: March 6, 2017 Dr. Stephen Ostroff Maureen K. Ohlhausen Acting Commissioner Acting Chairman Food and Drug Administration Federal Trade Commission 10903 New Hampshire Ave 600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Silver Spring, MD 20993 Washington, DC 20580 Dear Acting Commissioner Ostroff and Acting Chairman Ohlhausen, We write to you today after hearing concerns from our constituents regarding the mislabeling of foreign cigar products. Connecticut shade tobacco seeds are now not only grown in Connecticut and other areas of the Northeast, but also in Ecuador and other parts of Central and Latin America. Different soils and climate conditions cause cigars made with U.S. Connecticut shade tobacco to taste vastly different than foreign grown Connecticut shade tobacco, despite the fact that the seeds may be the same. However, labels on these cigars are often unclear as to the origin of the shade tobacco. Furthermore, labels contain the word “Connecticut” regardless of where the tobacco is grown, further confusing consumers and undercutting Connecticut growers. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) both play vital roles in enforcing existing regulations on tobacco labeling and advertising. Under 15 U.S. Code § 45, the FTC has broad authority to prevent “unfair or deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce”. Furthermore, under Section 903 of the Tobacco Control Act a tobacco product can be deemed misbranded if its advertising is false or misleading. Given these existing authorities and the responsibilities of your agencies, we urge you to investigate the misbranding of Connecticut shade tobacco products and take action to curb this deceptive practice. Connecticut shade tobacco, which is used as a wrapper for premium cigars, is renowned worldwide for its superior quality and unique flavor profile. That distinctive quality and flavor clearly derives from the specific soil and climate conditions in the Connecticut River Valley, which is why we believe that a protected geographic indicator for Connecticut shade tobacco is justified. Such indicators in product names are unnecessary when the connection between climate or soil and the ultimate taste of the product is unclear, as is the case for cheese, but the uniqueness of Connecticut shade tobacco is due to the specific environment in which it is grown. Since the 1630s, tobacco farmers have been growing Connecticut shade tobacco in and around the Connecticut River Valley. The early techniques of covering crops under shade tents have changed little in the past 100 years, contributing to the iconic nature of this crop. Today, Connecticut tobacco farming supports over 800 jobs and 5,000 seasonal workers. Collectively, the industry supports $47.4 million in direct sales and has an economic impact of $85 million. Despite the importance of this crop to the premium cigar industry, Connecticut farmers are struggling. For example, Connecticut’s largest tobacco farm did not plant a crop this past growing year and is selling off land as a result of foreign competition, in part, exacerbated by unfair or deceptive acts. While there are a myriad of challenges facing farmers, being undercut by foreign growers is a clear threat to the long-term viability of the Connecticut shade tobacco industry. We urge you to use the tools that your agencies have to investigate this issue and take action to prevent further harm to growers in our state. Sincerely, John B. Larson Member of Congress Christopher S. Murphy United States Senator Joe Courtney Member of Congress
03.02.2017	Today, the CEO’s of Aetna, The Hartford, and Travelers announced that over the next 5 years their companies will be dedicating a combined $50 million to help the City of Hartford. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in response: “Aetna, The Hartford, and Travelers for years have been value added companies to the City of Hartford and the State of Connecticut. They have been stalwart members of our community and they have provided much to Hartford, reminiscent of the Bishops of old. This generous further commitment from them only reinforces why we are fortunate to have these great institutions in Hartford,” said Larson. “Their commitment shows why we need to remain committed to infrastructure improvements that will make the city both accessible and livable for their employees and to others who live and work in the city.” The CEO’s announcement can be found here. ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Trump's inaugural address to the Joint Session of Congress: “President Trump struck a new tone in his address this evening. While he reiterated many of his campaign themes, I was encouraged by his call to work together. The areas of infrastructure, military support and paid family leave are promising proposals from him, but we have not seen any specific plans. There has only been rhetoric from the Republicans, who control all levels of government, and the devil remains in the details," said Larson. "President Trump once again has said they will replace the Affordable Care Act, but they have had seven years to come up with an alternative and we have seen nothing from their side to show. While I hope we can work together, I remain skeptical until we see any specifics." ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Jewish communities continued to receive telephone bomb threats, including Hebrew High School of New England in West Hartford, CT. "These Anti-Semitic attacks need to stop. I am demanding that the President, Department of Justice, and Department of Homeland Security take immediate action to stop these terror threats targeting Jewish Americans. Last week, I joined 150 of my colleagues in writing a letter asking for these agencies to take action on these matters," said Larson. "The rise of xenophobia and hate crimes are creating fear in communities all across the country, including in the First District. The President needs to go beyond expressing concern and remorse about these crimes and take action against them. Threats towards any religious group in this country – including threats and attacks we have seen targeting the Jewish and Muslim communities – are an attack on all of us and of the fundamental principle that America is a place where all are free to practice their religion. President Trump needs stand up for all Americans and swiftly take action to address these disgraceful terror tactics." ###
02.27.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives approved legislation codifying the National Park Service’s authority to utilize the historic brownstones next to the East Armory for the Coltsville National Historic Park’s visitor center. The National Park Service determined that the brownstones, which date back to the 1850’s, provide the best location for historic preservation and visitor access. The Park Service issued a technical clarification that would allow for this to occur and this legislation would simply codify that decision. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “Coltsville has played an iconic part in our nation’s history since Sam Colt founded his company in 1855 and created a community around manufacturing that helped make Hartford one of the birthplaces of the Industrial Revolution. Coltsville will continue to play an important role in Hartford as a National Park,” said Larson. “As the Coltsville National Park continues to grow and evolve, Hartford will be able to reclaim the banks for the historic Connecticut River and attract more people to the city. This Park has brought together countless community leaders, cultural organizations, governmental agencies, non-profits, and businesses who have worked tirelessly to bring this dream to fruition. I look forward to the continued success of Coltsville and the surrounding community.” ###
02.24.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the announcement from the Trump Administration that they will be rolling back Title IX guidance from the Obama Administration that protects the rights of transgender students: “This a disgraceful move by the Trump Administration. This move will only harm students. All young people deserve to be protected against discrimination,” said Larson. ###
02.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) today joined with a bipartisan group of 150 House colleagues in calling for swift action by federal law enforcement agencies to address the wave of anonymous telephone bomb threats made against Jewish community centers (JCCs) across the country. “We urge the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to swiftly assess the situation and to advise Congress on what specific steps are being taken, or will be taken, to deter such ‘telephone terrorism,’ to identify and prosecute the perpetrators for violations of federal criminal laws, and to enable JCCs to enhance security measures such as physical barriers and guards, in the event that an individual seeks to act upon these threats,” the lawmakers wrote. “These phone calls have an immediate emotional impact, of course, but they also have an economic impact,” the lawmakers wrote. “JCCs provide a range of educational and community services for Jewish and non-Jewish individuals and families, with a particular focus on children and youth. The individuals who make these calls no doubt recognize that bomb threats, particularly when repeated, can compromise and even destroy a JCC’s financial future.” The letter, which was spearheaded by Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL) and Rep. Joseph Crowley (D-NY), was addressed to Homeland Security Secretary John F. Kelly, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and FBI Director James B. Comey. One hundred fifty-five Democrats and Republicans signed the letter. In January, telephone bomb threats were made against Jewish community centers in New Haven, West Hartford, and Woodbridge, CT. In total, 54 Jewish community centers have reported receiving telephone bomb threats in 2017. The full text of the letter is pasted below: Dear Secretary Kelly, Attorney General Sessions, and Director Comey, We write to express our deep concern regarding the recent spate of anonymous bomb threats made via telephone against Jewish Community Centers (JCCs) across the nation. We urge the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to swiftly assess the situation and to advise Congress on what specific steps are being taken, or will be taken, to deter such “telephone terrorism,” to identify and prosecute the perpetrators for violations of federal criminal laws, and to enable JCCs to enhance security measures such as physical barriers and guards, in the event that an individual seeks to act upon these threats. This is not an idle concern, given that there have been at least three casualty-causing attacks at JCCs or other Jewish institutions in the last two decades—in 2014 at a Kansas JCC, in 2006 at the Jewish Federation of Seattle, and in 1999 at a California JCC. This is a national problem and, as such, it requires a national solution. According to February 16, 2017 article on CNN.com, the JCC Association of North America (JCC Association) reports that 48 JCCs in 27 states received telephonic bomb threats in January 2017 alone. A number of JCCs, such as the Orlando Jewish Community Center, received multiple threats. On February 20th, 11 JCCs in as many states received bomb threats via telephone. These phone calls have an immediate emotional impact, of course, but they also have an economic impact. JCCs provide a range of educational and community services for Jewish and non-Jewish individuals and families, with a particular focus on children and youth. The individuals who make these calls no doubt recognize that bomb threats, particularly when repeated, can compromise and even destroy a JCC’s financial future. We urge you to approach this issue with a sense of urgency, and to work in partnership with state and territory governments, local law enforcement officials, the JCC Association, individual JCCs, and Jewish community institutions and leaders to address the threat in a holistic manner. We look forward to your response regarding the specific steps being taken to prevent and respond to this threat. Sincerely, ###
02.17.2017	Washington, D.C. - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the recent acts of aggression from the Russians: “The first three weeks of the Trump administration have been filled with turmoil as national security concerns continue to linger over the potentially compromising relationship between administration officials and the Russian government. This week alone began with the resignation of Lt. General Michael Flynn from the National Security Council, who resigned after misleading the administration and the American people about the phone calls with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, regarding the sanctions imposed on Russia over confirmed interference in our electoral system. The Trump Administration still lacks a coherent explanation for its handling of Flynn after knowing weeks ago that he mislead the Vice President, the American people, and the FBI. There is much that doesn’t add up and the American people deserve answers. “It’s troubling that Flynn is the third person from the Trump campaign or administration to have resigned over connections with Russia. While we will never know the true effects of the Russian interference on the outcome of the election, unless a change is made, Russia will continue to attempt to influence in our electoral system, the most important tool in our Democracy. Due to the serious implications of these questions, I will be working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues in the House and Senate to take much needed legislative action to: 1. Create an independent commission to investigate Russian meddling in the United States elections and provide recommendations on how to strengthen our systems against foreign intrusions; 2. Engage Congress in fulfilling its own oversight role in uncovering the extent of Russia’s malign activities to manipulate our Democracy. Senator Lindsey Graham has suggested the idea of a Senate Select Committee. I join that call and would support making it a bicameral select committee; and 3. Update our cyber security capabilities by instituting a uniform policy to meet new challenges of the modern cyber world. “Congress has an obligation to answer repeated bipartisan calls to establish an independent commission to get the full scope of the breach in order to protect ourselves in the future, and determine whether any laws were broken. This investigation will be a key step towards creating a better cyber security landscape for the U.S. and a more secure electoral process. Russia cannot be allowed to continue to meddle in our democracy,” said Larson. “We must restore trust in Lincoln’s promise 'that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall never perish from the earth.' It is time we take action and put a stop to this. ” ###
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) received the Outstanding National Service Advocacy Award from the Voices for National Service for his work to elevate national service as a priority for the nation. “I am honored and humbled to accept this award from the Voices for National Service today,” said Larson. “Less than 1% of our nation services in our military, AmeriCorps, and the Peace Corps. It is time for our country to invest in our citizens and renew the volunteer spirit that has helped lead our country for generations, that’s why Rep. John Lewis and I will reintroduce America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act. I would like to thank the Voices for National Service for the hard work that they do for our country.” More information on America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act can be found here. You can view Rep. Larson’s remarks here. ###
02.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Ways and Means Committee Republicans blocked an amendment to review President Trump’s tax returns: “It is outrageous that my Republican colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee are blocking the American public’s right to know what is in President Trump’s tax returns,” said Larson. “The American people should have the opportunity to know what their leader’s business interests are and whether there are potential conflicts. I will continue to press this issue, so the American public can know the whole truth.” The Ways and Means Committee met today to approve the Authorization and Oversight plan for the 115th Congress. Ranking Member Lloyd Doggett (D-TX) introduced a Democratic amendment to reaffirm the Committee’s authority under law to request copies of the President’s federal tax returns. Rep. Larson joined with his colleagues in voting in favor of the amendment. The vote failed along party lines. ###
02.03.2017	Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Tom Rooney (R-FL) co-chairmen of the House F-35 Caucus, released the following statement after Lockheed Martin announced it will be driving down the costs of its F-35 aircraft program. The agreement, negotiated with the Department of Defense in recent months, will save $728 million for the next 90 F-35 aircraft, creating significant savings over previous contracts. In addition to the cost reduction, Lockheed announced the program will create 1,800 new jobs at their Fort Worth, Texas factory and support thousands more American jobs across the country. “This announcement today by Lockheed is good news for our military, our national security, taxpayers, and for the thousands of workers who do remarkable work each and every day building this state of the art aircraft” Larson said. “The most capable engineers and machinists continue to build the most advanced fighters and keep the eagle flying in Connecticut and the rest of the world.” “It has always been my top priority to ensure that our men and women in uniform have the latest and greatest technology at their disposal to defeat our adversaries, which for us means the F-35 aircraft,” Rep. Rooney said. “I appreciate Lockheed Martin and the Pentagon for swiftly coming to an agreement that equips our military with the most advanced aircraft in the world, while also saving taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars.” The newly formed House F-35 caucus isn’t their first collaboration. Rooney and Larson teamed up in 2011 to strike funding for the alternative engine for the F-35, which saved taxpayers upwards of $3 billion. Passing the House with vast bipartisan support, the vote was named one of fourteen “Key House Votes of 2011.”
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Connecticut Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) last night joined with over 170 of their Democratic colleagues to introduce the Statue of Liberty Values (SOLVE) Act of 2017, which would overturn President Trump’s executive order banning refugees and immigrants of seven Muslim-majority countries. “President Trump’s executive order is a morally bankrupt document that will serve only to embolden our enemies and send countless vulnerable children and families who are fleeing terror to their needless deaths,” said the delegation. “In just four days, the order’s careless construction and incompetent execution have led to worldwide chaos, frayed relations with our allies, and left parents, kids, students, scientists, and business leaders stranded overseas with no idea when they can return home.” Following introduction of the SOLVE Act, a bill to defund and rescind President Donald Trump’s Muslim ban executive order, U.S. Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) asked for unanimous consent for the House of Representatives to consider the legislation. However, it was denied by the Speaker of the House. Senate legislation to overturn the executive order was also unveiled yesterday by Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT). ###
01.28.2017	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: "While having a thorough vetting process is absolutely necessary, we are capable of doing so in a way that honors our values and doesn't entirely halt our programs that serve some of the most vulnerable people in the world. These executive orders are cruel and un-American," said Larson. "President Trump should take a page out of Governor Malloy's book and show some compassion for these families, who are displaced from their homes under horrific circumstances. What makes America great is our ability to open our doors and help those in their time of need, regardless of their religion. As it is inscribed on the Statue of Liberty, 'Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free.'”
01.27.2017	(Hartford, CT) – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) issued the following statement in response to the announcement by the Pentagon today of a review of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program: “Any review of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter will affirm what has long been established—no aircraft in production today can compare with the Joint Strike Fighter’s stealth and survivability. Efforts are already underway to cut costs, raise efficiency, and improve production. A review must avoid any delay in production that will only increase costs and postpone the delivery of this aircraft to our men and women in uniform.”
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement about HR 7, a bill to further restrict women’s access to comprehensive care: “It is appalling that just a few days after the Women’s March, the GOP passes a bill that is so harmful to women’s rights,” said Larson. “Every woman should have the opportunity make their own choices about their reproductive healthcare, without interference from politicians and the personal beliefs of their employers. This is yet another attempt towards turning back progress made under the Affordable Care Act, reducing access to essential health benefits, and increasing costs for women seeking comprehensive care.” ###
01.23.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced a staff change in his DC legislative office. David Sitcovsky has been promoted to Chief of Staff to succeed Lee Slater who is departing to be the Director of Outreach and Member Services for the Ways and Means Committee. “David Sitcovsky is recognized on the Hill and by his peers as one of the most knowledgeable policy experts. He has served in several capacities in our office and most recently as Legislative Director. He is eminently qualified to take on the responsibilities of Chief of Staff. I could not be prouder of this native of the First District, hailing from Glastonbury,” said Larson. “I'd like to thank Congressman Larson for giving me the opportunity to continue serving the First District in this new role, as Chief of Staff. It has been an honor to work for him and alongside a dedicated and hardworking group of staff over the past eight years in support of the Congressman's work on behalf of the district and the nation. I look forward to continuing this work in this new position. I'd also like to thank Lee for his leadership and congratulate him on his new position with the Ways and Means Committee. He has been a great colleague and mentor to me and I wish him the best of luck,” said Sitcovsky. A native of Glastonbury, CT, Sitcovsky has served his home district on Larson’s staff as Legislative Director since 2012 and as a Legislative Assistant from 2008-2012. He graduated from the University of Connecticut with a Bachelor's in Sociology and Political Science and earned a Master’s in Public Policy from the College of William and Mary.
01.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal and Senator Chris Murphy announced that the City of Hartford will receive a $249,375 Performance Partnership Pilot grant from the U.S. Department of Education to engage 100 youth in the North End Promise Zone. The City will work with the State of Connecticut, Capital Workforce Partners, Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, and two employer partnerships—Metro Hartford Alliance for Careers in Healthcare and Advanced Manufacturing Employer Partnership—to help create career pathways for youth in the Promise Zone between the ages of 14 and 24 years old. “I am pleased that the City of Hartford was able to secure this grant to help youth in Hartford’s North End,” said Larson. “This is exactly the reason why we worked so hard to get a Promise Zone designation for the 06120, so that Hartford’s poorest neighborhood would be able to get the resources it needs. I will soon be reintroducing the Promise Zone Job Creation Act, that will create new tax credits to encourage employers to invest in and hire residents of Promise Zones. I look forward to engaging more residents and stakeholders to help secure more aid for the 06120.” “This funding provides hope and a pathway towards career success for Hartford youth, a road that is critical to the future of both our youth and the local community. I applaud the U.S. Department of Education for making this wise investment,” said Blumenthal. “This federal grant is exactly why we fought so hard for North Hartford to receive a Promise Zone designation. Because of the Promise Zone, North Hartford skipped to the front of the line and secured this investment that will make a real difference in a hundred kids’ lives. Through incredible organizations like Capital Workforce Partners and C-CAT and corporate partnerships with Metro Hartford Alliance and Advanced Manufacturing Employer Partnership, these young people will learn important career and personal skills to put them on a path towards success. While North Hartford has seen some tough times, there’s some much potential in this community’s young people—and this grant is a small step to help us get there,” said Murphy. ###
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted against S.Con.Res. 3, the first step by the GOP to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “The Affordable Care Act has allowed Americans with pre-existing conditions to receive healthcare coverage, it has provided preventive services, like mammograms, to millions of women. It has given millions coverage who never had it before. This is not the time to repeal the ACA and take all of this progress away,” said Larson. “A woman from Manchester, CT, recently reached out to my office, saying that she is a recently retired, breast cancer survivor, with heart disease and high blood pressure. Without the Affordable Care Act, she won’t be able to afford the medicine she needs to live. “The Affordable Care Act isn't perfect, and for six years we have argued that we should make changes where needed to improve it and build on its success. Other than threatening to repeal the law the GOP has yet to offer a plan to replace it. If they put forward a solution that continues to cover all those who have gained access and provides lower costs and better coverage we are certainly willing to look at that. But simply repealing without replacing it is reckless and I would urge the GOP to stop this process from moving any further at this point in time.” ###
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on the announcement of a new city, state and federal partnership to combat gun violence: “I am grateful to Mayor Luke Bronin, the Hartford Police Department, the United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local agencies for the formation of the Focused Violence Reduction team,” said Larson. “Gun violence has plagued our capital city, and any efforts to combat it are welcomed with open arms. Thank you to everyone involved.” The Focused Violence Reduction Team was announced today as way to enhance the local law enforcement’s efforts to combat gun violence. ###
01.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), in coordination with the U.S. Department of Transportation held a Build America Bureau workshop with Commissioner Redeker, state officials and stakeholders to discuss Larson’s new vision for Hartford. “The current I-84 and I-91 set up divides the city of Hartford and cuts the city off from its historic riverfront. I am glad that 31 people were able to get together today to discuss the new vision for Hartford and the capital region,” said Larson. “The plan of creating underground tunnels for I-84 and I-91 would bring the city together, return the Bulkeley, Founders and Charter Oak Bridges to boulevards, increase access to the riverfront, and allow us to repair our eroding levee systems. I am grateful to the DOT, the Build America Bureau and for everyone who came down from Connecticut to discuss this project.” The Build America Bureau was established in the FAST Act (Public Law 114-94) to act as a one-stop-shop for project development and project finances at the U.S. DOT. Larson will be convening a public forum on Wednesday, January 25th at the Hartford Public Library to discuss the plan with constituents. ###
01.11.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was named the ranking member on the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee. Larson released the following statement upon the announcement: “Social Security is a sacred trust between the people and their government,” said Larson. “I am honored to be chosen by my peers to uphold and advance that trust we hold with the citizens of this country. Social Security is not an entitlement – it’s insurance that hard-working Americans have earned by paying for it. More than 60 million people rely on Social Security for their retirement, for disability insurance, and for survivors benefits for spouses and children. It is the nation’s insurance system. “The working class at all levels relies on Social Security as either its only source of retirement income or as the foundation of retirement security,” said Larson. “I have enormous respect for Subcommittee Chairman Sam Johnson, and look forward to an open and engaging debate on the nation’s fundamental social insurance program.” Larson plans to reintroduce the Social Security 2100 Act early this Congress, which expands benefits and ensures the system remains solvent through the end of the century. “I am heartened that President-Elect Trump understands that cutting Social Security benefits is a non-starter. It is imperative that the President-Elect follows through with that pledge and I hope to able to work with the new administration to improve the system as well,” said Larson. “The mission is to expand benefits, not cut them, and to do it in an actuarially sound manner that doesn’t increase the national debt. We’re going to do it the old-fashioned way; we’re going to pay for it.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) made the following statement today after it was announced that ten new Marine Corps F-35 fighter jets were deployed to Japan: “The F-35 joint strike fighter program received a major boost today when ten brand new jets were deployed to the U.S. Marines operating in Japan,” said the members. “The vertical take-off jets delivered today combine a unique set of technologies including stealth, highly specialized radar, and electronic warfare systems that are unrivaled by any other aircraft in the world. It has taken years of hard work by the aerospace industry and our military leaders to get this program on track and on a path of declining costs. The simple fact of the matter is that there is no other aircraft in production today that can compare with the F-35’s advanced avionics, networked capabilities and integrated stealth.” Click here to read an article detailing today’s deployment of F-35s to Japan Larson is a co-chair of the bipartisan F-35 Caucus. Courtney is the Ranking Member of the House Seapower and Projection Forces Subcommittee. ###
01.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC — This week, U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) cosponsored the Protecting Our Democracy Act, legislation that would establish an independent, bipartisan commission to investigate foreign interference in the 2016 election. The legislation comes the same day that the United States intelligence community released a landmark report regarding foreign interference in last year’s election, confirming Russia’s involvement. “The cornerstone of American democracy is our electoral process, where the people make informed decisions to elect leaders to serve and represent them. Today’s report from the intelligence community is unmistakable in its conclusion that Russia and Vladimir Putin specifically, ‘sought to undermine public faith in the U.S. democratic process’ and that Russian actors had ‘a clear preference’ for Donald Trump,” said the House Members. “Any interference of this magnitude by a foreign government must be taken extremely seriously. Congress must ensure that our elections are fair and free of malicious foreign interference, and that the Russian government is held responsible. We urge Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell to immediately bring the Protecting Our Democracy Act up for a vote.” The Protecting Our Democracy Act would create a 12-member, bipartisan, independent commission empowered to interview witnesses, obtain documents, issue subpoenas, and receive public testimony to examine attempts by the Russian government or others to use electronic means to influence, interfere with, or undermine trust in last year’s U.S. elections. The commission would examine any similar efforts by any other foreign governments or entities and would issue a final report with recommendations to Congress and the President within 18 months of enactment. ###
01.06.2017	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on the announcement of Rep. Sam Johnson’s (TX-03) retirement at the end of this term: “It has been an honor serving on the Ways and Means Committee beside Rep. Sam Johnson, a true American Hero. He is as authentic as it gets and his commitment to serving the American people is unmatched. Not only has he served them in Congress, but also through his time as a fighter pilot during the Korean and Vietnam Wars,” said Larson. “The seven years he spent as a POW in Vietnam, shows how resilient and courageous he is. I stand in awe of him. “All Members of Congress are better because of our relationship with Sam Johnson. I wish him the best in his well-deserved retirement but until then I look forward to working with him in Washington over the next two years.” Larson served as the Congressional Co-Chair for the Congressional Patriot Award in 2016, where Johnson was honored as being one of the first recipients. ###
01.06.2017	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on the shooting that occurred at the Ft. Lauderdale Airport that left at least five people dead: “My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. I want to express my gratitude to the local law enforcement and first responders for their quick action,” said Larson. “It is past time for Congress to have an open, honest debate on addressing gun violence in America. That’s why it is so frustrating that instead of having this debate, the majority is trying to muzzle and gag the minority, who are only trying to express the wishes of their constituents and gun violence victims. We can’t stand in silence again. To only stand silent, when we have a great democracy where we can debate and vote on measures, that could help prevent occurrences like this is disgraceful. This is will only continue to happen until something changes. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C —Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) issued the following statement on the House GOP partisan strike against the independent office of Ethics: “The GOP majority in the opening minutes of the new Congress, voted behind closed doors to eviscerate the independence of the Office of Congressional Ethics - a grotesque move that turns the clock backwards in the effort to clean up Washington,” said Larson and Courtney. “As members who have served on the House Ethics Committee, which reviews complaints referred by the Office of Congressional Ethics, we both vehemently oppose this change which was unveiled in the middle of the night yesterday with absolutely no input from the minority party, or more importantly, the public. Rather than ‘draining the swamp’, their midnight rule will bloat the swamp by removing an independent avenue for complaints against House members from being heard. This is a step backward for governmental transparency and ethics.” Larson served on the committee from 2015-2016, and Courtney served on the House Ethics committee from 2011-2012. ###
12.28.2016	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on the proposed amendments to the House Rules: "House Democrats will not be silenced when it comes to speaking up on behalf of the American people. Gun violence unfortunately impacts all of our communities and the need for reforms can no longer go unanswered. "I am incredibly disappointed that instead of listening to the American people and simply giving us a vote, a vote on common sense bipartisan changes like keeping guns out of the hands of terrorists, and again a few extremist Republicans are seeking to further silence the minority with the hopes of protecting the gun lobby. "At a time when America is wracked with division the answer is not Putinesque rules. The answer is greater discussion, more votes, increased transparency and efforts to ensure that Americans at least feel that they were heard even if they disagree with the outcome. Continued vitriolic attacks on the press and the rise of fake news remind us we cannot turn the cameras off and cast the people’s chamber into darkness. “This unprecedented move, of fining Members of Congress for speaking up for their constituents, when all other avenues have been blocked, is ill considered and may run afoul of Article I of the Constitution. That article holds that each House may punish its members for disorderly behavior. For more 200 years this has been interpreted to mean any contested sanctions must be approved by the full House with a floor vote. “We will continue, no matter the attempts to prevent it, to speak out on behalf of victims," said Larson. Rep. Larson helped lead the sit-in on the House floor in June. ###
12.28.2016	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT -01) released the following statement about Israel’s proposal to provide medical care to wounded refugees from Aleppo: “I was encouraged to hear that Prime Minister Netanyahu is exploring ways to accept wounded refugees from Aleppo and to provide them with medical care in Israel’s hospitals,” said Larson. “These refugees are victims and are innocent. I hope that the United States will follow Israel's example and put forth a similar proposal.” ###
12.23.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the U.N. Security Council’s vote on Israel: "Today’s resolution is a misguided attempt to isolate Israel and undermine the peace process. I am disappointed that the United States did not exercise its veto, but I am confident that our leaders will continue to support our greatest ally in the region. We are firmly committed to a peaceful resolution to the ongoing conflict, but that can only be achieved by bringing all parties to the table and recognizing the acts of terrorism Israel has endured.” ###
12.21.2016	Manchester, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognized Fabrizio Lazo, Isaiah Powell and Brandon Reed with Certificates of Special Congressional Recognition for designing the winning app of the First District’s 2016 Congressional App Challenge (CAC). All three are seniors at Howell Cheney Technical High School and residents of East Hartford. Their app, BoomTanks, is a multiplayer action-based game featuring quiz questions about the history of tanks. “Fabrizio, Isaiah, and Brandon blended action and education in a truly creative and impressive way,” said Larson. “I am so proud to see such talent in our local students. The Congressional App Challenge is a testament to the vitality of ideas. The winning app all started from a single idea, developed and improved upon by the entire group. I know Fabrizio, Isaiah, and Brandon all have bright futures ahead, possibly as part of Connecticut’s vibrant technology ecosystem. Certainly the skill and creativity they showed today will serve them in all their endeavors. Congratulations again to them all on a job truly well done.” The CAC is an opportunity for local high school students in the First District to highlight their STEM skills and apply what they have learned in the classroom. Larson’s office received 10 app submissions from across the First District. Nationwide, over 2,100 high school students participated in the Challenge and 650 apps were designed. ###
12.15.2016	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured the health center at the Franklin H. Mayberry Elementary School. School-based health centers like this one offer comprehensive healthcare for children and adolescents—many of whom would otherwise run the risk of receiving no care at all. “Now more than ever, we have to protect the health of our children,” said Larson. “The vast majority of the students at Mayberry Elementary rely on their school’s health center for their medical and dental care. This program does a tremendous jobs ensuring at-risk kids get the treatment they need, and it should serve as a model for the rest of the nation. “That’s why I will be introducing legislation to support and enhance school-based health centers like the one at Mayberry Elementary. Our children’s wellbeing is too important to jeopardize while Congress debates drastic changes to national health coverage. We must make sure school-based health centers continue to get the resources they need to give our kids the very best care.” 84% of students at Mayberry Elementary School are enrolled in the health center’s services. Most of these children are recipients of Medicaid, and they receive both medical and dental care in a trusted environment from qualified practitioners. ###
12.14.2016	Washington – In the wake of Rep. Sam Johnson (TX-03)’s Social Security Reform Act of 2016—which would drastically cut benefits for the middle class and raise the retirement age—Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) committed to reintroducing the Social Security 2100 Act. Larson’s plan would cut taxes for seniors, increase benefits, and prevent Americans from retiring into poverty. “It is time to stop talking about Social Security as an entitlement program; it is the insurance you paid for,” said Larson. “I commend Rep. Johnson for putting forth a plan to address our country’s retirement crisis—as our democracy thrives on the vitality of ideas—but slashing benefits and asking Americans to work harder for less is not the solution. “I introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to cut taxes—not benefits. My plan would in fact increase benefits across the board and ensure Social Security is actuarially sound into the next century. It has the support of advocacy groups like Social Security Works and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, as well as the vast majority of the Democratic Caucus. I look forward to a healthy debate about the future of Social Security, and I will keep fighting to protect the benefits Americans paid for throughout a lifetime of hard work.” ###
12.12.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Central Intelligence Agency’s report that Russia had interfered in the United States’ elections: “Any evidence of foreign tampering in our elections must be taken seriously. Free and fair elections are the foundation of our democracy, and the nation deserves to know that we are doing everything we can to safeguard the electoral process and protect the will of the people from outside influences. The report of Russian interference in our elections cannot be ignored. I stand with leaders on both sides of the aisle who have called for a full, bipartisan investigation into this attack on our democracy. The American public deserves to know the truth, and our institutions must be protected from further intrusions.” ###
12.12.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01)—Co-Chair of the Congressional Joint Strike Fighter Caucus—released the following statement: “I’m looking forward to discussing the importance of the F-35 and the steps Lockheed Martin has already taken to drive down program costs with President-Elect Trump and his National Security team. As the nation’s premier fifth-generation fighter, the F-35 represents the very best of American ingenuity and capability. Given its pure superiority over all foreign aircraft, it will serve as a military deterrent for decades to come. Despite growing pains, the program has cut costs significantly to date and is on course to continue achieving savings. I’m confident in the future of the program.” ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President-Elect Donald Trump’s choice of Linda McMahon to lead the Small Business Administration: “As the co-founder and former CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment, Linda McMahon has shown that she has business acumen and understands firsthand the needs of small business owners. She has also used her leadership and influence to encourage and support women in business through her Women’s Leadership Live initiative. In Connecticut she is known for her candor and energy, both of which will serve her well in her new role at the SBA.” ###
12.02.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. Included in the bill was a bipartisan provision he authored with Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) to ensure military families who have children on the autism spectrum can receive the care they need. Earlier this year, TRICARE—the health insurance program for active duty and retired military personnel and families—drastically cut reimbursement rates for applied behavior analysis (ABA), a widely recognized treatment for children on the autism spectrum. Larson’s provision restores previous reimbursement rates, removing a potentially significant barrier to families who need access to ABA. “Our military families sacrifice so much already, but they should never be asked to sacrifice the health and wellbeing of their children,” said Larson. “Reversing these cuts will assist families who already face significant challenges, ensuring they can access the care they need. I was proud to lead the fight with Rep. Rooney to help our military families, and thank the conferees for including it in this bill. We will continue to be vigilant moving forward to ensure that our military families are able to access the health care services they need. “This bill also provides a richly deserved pay raise to the men and women who put their lives on the line for our nation, as well as the equipment they need to carry out their mission. For all they give us, our servicemen and –women have more than earned the compensation and benefits they will now receive as well as state-of-the-art technology like the KC-46 Air Tanker, the Long Range Strike Bomber, the Ohio Replacement Submarine, and the Combat Rescue Helicopter—all of which were funded as part of this package. “While I was disappointed to see the compromise we reached today did not include the increase in F-35 production that we won in the House, it does provide adequate funding to maintain the program. I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reinforce the need for additional funding for the F-35 program—which both safeguards our nation and is an important part of our state’s economy.” ###
12.02.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement congratulating Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01) on his appointment to Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee: “Richie Neal is recognized on both sides of the aisle, and by the business and labor communities, as having the most comprehensive understanding of tax, Social Security and Medicare policy. I have known Richie since he was Mayor of Springfield, and I have worked with him on issues critical to moving the nation forward. We represent neighboring districts and understand the importance of manufacturing, business, commerce and finance, but most importantly, we share the desire to advance the interests of working families. He is a colleague whose counsel and insight I have always sought, and I was honored to support his candidacy for Ranking Member—I hope to one day call him Mr. Chairman. “A frequent visitor to Connecticut and an alumnus of the University of Hartford, Richie knows firsthand the challenges facing our state’s working families. His father passed away while he was still quite young, and his mother raised him and his family while living on Social Security. Strengthening our safety nets is more than just a talking point to Richie: it’s personal. He knows how important Social Security and Medicare are to keeping seniors, the disabled, and survivors out of poverty, and he will fight hard to defend the benefits Americans earned and the values we hold sacred. “All of our colleagues recognize and respect Richie’s expertise on numerous topics. He came to Congress with the goal of one day leading this committee, and he rose to this esteemed position the old-fashioned way: he earned it. I could not be happier to see his hard work come to fruition. Congratulations, my friend.” ###
12.01.2016	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement concerning the election of Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04) as Chairman of the New Democrat Coalition: “Rep. Himes is a thoughtful and conscientious leader, and I offer him my sincere congratulations on his election today. This is a wonderful victory for Connecticut, as the New Democrats work hard to deliver good jobs and keep America on the cutting edge of innovation and invention. I know Rep. Himes will do a terrific job in fostering opportunity here in Connecticut and across this country.” ###
12.01.2016	Washington – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) nominated Rep. Linda Sánchez (CA-38) to serve as Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus for the 115th Congress. After her election, he released the following statement: “I could not be prouder to see Rep.Sánchez elected today. We in Connecticut consider her the honorary sixth member of our delegation because of her personal ties to our state. Her husband is a lifelong resident of Connecticut, a former Norwich councilman, and a previous staff member of mine. Her children have lived and gone to school both here and in California. She is a passionate leader who knows the challenges Connecticut families and the country as a whole face. It was truly a privilege to nominate her.” After yesterday’s election, Sánchez became the first Latina elected to House leadership. ###
11.30.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting for the comprehensive, bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act: “Our nation has been in the grips of an epidemic, and Americans battling opioid and heroin addiction need help. Throughout the year, I’ve joined Rep. Joe Courtney in calling for funds to provide more Americans with a chance at recovery. While this bill alone is not an instant fix, it is certainly a step in the right direction, and I will keep fighting to make sure no one who wants help with their addiction can ever be turned away. “This legislation also contains important reforms to our nation’s mental health system that Sen. Chris Murphy authored. Sen. Murphy has led the fight to reform the system and enact bipartisan measures to ensure individuals and families have the resources they need to live full, healthy lives. Thanks to his efforts and this bill, we will be able to establish new research programs and early interventions, strengthen suicide prevention efforts, and promote transparency in the mental health system. “This is not a perfect bill, and I am especially disappointed that the higher levels of dedicated funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) from the House version of the 21st Century Cures legislation were not preserved. It is also troubling to see that this bill is partially offset by removing funds from the Public Health and Prevention Fund. Even though it is not as robust as I believe it should have been, the bill does however provide for new investments in the NIH to enhance our efforts in combating disease and developing cures. While there were other changes and improvements that I believe could have made this an even stronger bill, I believe that ultimately it will provide a tremendous benefit for families across our nation.” ###
11.30.2016	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Governor Dannel P. Malloy, and the members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation today announced that the State of Connecticut has been awarded nearly $11.7 million in discretionary federal funding through the Preschool Development Grant, which aims to expand high-quality preschool. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Departments of Education and Health and Human Services through a competitive grant process and was announced today by Education Secretary John B. King, Jr. “Connecticut wins when children thrive. Investing in early childhood education is one of the most important things we can do for the economic future of our families and state,” Larson and the members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. “These dollars will be truly life-changing for hundreds of low-income children in 13 communities across Connecticut. We will continue to fight for federal dollars to ensure all Connecticut children have the resources and support they need to enter kindergarten ready to excel.”“Connecticut has made great progress in expanding access to and availability of early childhood education. We have a fundamental responsibility to provide an opportunity for all children to succeed, and one of the best ways to do that is to make sure they have access to a high-quality early learning experience,” Governor Malloy said. “These federal funds will allow us to continue to provide high-quality preschool to over 400 children and improve the quality of preschool for nearly 300 more children in low-income families, giving them the necessary foundation to succeed in school and life. I’d like to thank our Congressional delegation for their advocacy of this grant and their commitment to funding successful programs that serve our children and families.”Connecticut’s application aligns with the state’s strong existing preschool infrastructure to expand access to high-quality state-funded preschool programs for 439 children and to improve the quality of state-funded preschool programs for another 291 children, for a total of 730 four-year-olds who are at or below 200 percent of the federal poverty line in 13 high-need communities. The 13 communities include Bridgeport, Derby, East Haven, Griswold, Groton, Hamden, Killingly, Manchester, Naugatuck, Seymour, Torrington, Vernon, and Wolcott. “Access to high-quality preschool is a critical foundation a child’s healthy social-emotional and academic development. This federal grant builds on Connecticut’s significant investment in our children’s earliest years,” Linda Goodman, Acting Commissioner of the Office of Early Childhood, said. “With this federal support, we will continue our work to provide a high-quality learning experience and comprehensive support services to 730 children in 13 communities to ensure they enter kindergarten ready to learn and thrive.” The 13 communities participating in the expansion will have high-quality preschool programs that: offer comprehensive services to children and families offer teacher compensation equal to K-12 teachers deepen family engagement practices at the local level forge a seamless birth-through-third-grade continuum at the local level have an enhanced professional development system offering more targeted and individualized coaching, mentoring and consultation designed to meet the unique needs of programs and teachers within the programs. Since the creation of the Office of Early Childhood in June 2013, Connecticut has boosted publicly funded preschool capacity by nearly 3,000 spaces. ###
11.29.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) thanked Rep. Sandy Levin (MI-09) for his years of service as Ranking Member of the Ways and Means Committee: “Rep. Levin has been a thoughtful and passionate leader on the Ways and Means Committee, and it has been an honor to work alongside him. He has been a tireless advocate for affordable healthcare and a mentor to all of us on the committee. Though he may no longer be the Ranking Member, I know he will continue to guide us as we fight to preserve access to healthcare, protect American workers, and make commonsense reforms to the tax code.” ###
11.22.2016	HARTFORD – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke with local students in an American Government class at Capital Community College about the results of the 2016 election and how to move forward. “I am glad I had the chance to speak to these students about their concerns over the 2016 election results,” said Larson. “They echoed the sentiments of many of my constituents who have contacted our office about their anxieties. I will continue to fight for my constituents and their rights. We will work with President-elect Trump on the areas we agree with, and fight any bigotry and injustices that occur. ” In addition to discussing their concerns, they also discussed ways to move forward and be a change within their local communities. Larson encouraged the students to be active in their communities, because change begins there. Larson often meets with local groups throughout the First District to discuss their thoughts and concerns. ###
11.21.2016	Washington -- Today, Reps. John Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), along with Rep. Ann McLane Kuster (D-NH) sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY) urging them to honor their promise to fund opioid treatment and enforcement programs this year. In addition, Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04) also joined the effort. When the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 (CARA) was signed into law in July with overwhelming bipartisan support, the programs it established were not provided with any new funding. At the time, the chairs of the conference committee which negotiated the final bill agreed appropriations would be necessary to fund these programs in Fiscal Year 2017. “Today, 78 people will likely die of a heroin or opioid overdose,” wrote the members. “This epidemic rages on across the United States, and local law enforcement and public health agencies are overwhelmed by need. It is our responsibility to provide them with the resources they desperately require to save lives and repair their communities. We continue to hear from leaders in law enforcement and in addiction recovery who say they are unable to provide assistance to needy residents because they lack the funds. “As you complete work on the 21st Century Cures legislation, we write to encourage you to include immediate funding to combat heroin and opioid addiction and overdose in this package. Knowing that Cures will likely be one of the final pieces of legislation that Congress acts on this year, we hope you will consider this a final opportunity to take needed action to combat this crisis.” In addition to being on the conference committee for CARA, Courtney and Esty have both been leaders in the fight to secure additional federal resources to address the growing prescription opioid and heroin epidemic. In February, Courtney introduced HR 4447, the Opioid and Heroin Epidemic Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, which would appropriate $600 million in emergency supplemental funds to law enforcement and public health efforts to address the opioid crisis in local communities. In March, Esty introduced H.R. 4697, the Prevent Drug Addiction Act, which would provide much-needed federal assistance to help communities in Connecticut and across the country prevent opioid addiction from happening in the first place. Both Courtney and Esty serve on the House Bipartisan Task Force to Combat the Heroin Epidemic. The full text of the letter, which was signed by 23 members, can be read below: November 18, 2016 The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House H-232, U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Mitch McConnell Majority Leader United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Dear Speaker Ryan and Majority Leader McConnell, Today, 78 people will likely die of a heroin or opioid overdose. This epidemic rages on across the United States, and local law enforcement and public health agencies are overwhelmed by need. It is our responsibility to provide them with the resources they desperately require to save lives and repair their communities. We continue to hear from leaders in law enforcement and in addiction recovery who say they are unable to provide assistance to needy residents because they lack the funds. As you complete work on the 21st Century Cures legislation, we write to encourage you to include immediate funding to combat heroin and opioid addiction and overdose in this package. Knowing that Cures will likely be one of the final pieces of legislation that Congress acts on this year, we hope you will consider this a final opportunity to take needed action to combat this crisis. As you know, this spring, both chambers passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 by an overwhelming bipartisan majority, and while it authorizes important efforts to improve treatment for addiction and respond to the crisis, it lacks any funding to support these programs. During conference discussions for CARA, representations were made from the Majority chairs in both chambers that funds would be appropriated in FY2017. H.R. 4447, which has 40 House cosponsors, provides a solid framework for these necessary resources. We continue to fervently support appropriating additional emergency funds to aid this effort and support the goals of CARA. It is crucial that we treat the opioid epidemic like the emergency that it is, and ensure that those responding to the crisis have the resources they need, now. We cannot sit idly by any longer as family after family is torn apart by an unnecessary tragedy while skilled officials are standing at the ready to intervene. We have the ability and obligation to provide them with the resources they need. Please take this opportunity to provide immediate funding to combat the opioid addiction and overdose crisis that continues to devastate American communities. Sincerely, REP. JOE COURTNEY (D-CT) ELIZABETH ESTY (D-CT) DEBBIE DINGELL (D-MI) ANN MCLANE KUSTER (D-NH) JOHN B. LARSON (D-CT) JIM HIMES (D-CT) STEPHEN LYNCH (D-MA) NIKI TSONGAS (D-MA) ALAN GRAYSON (D-FL) DONALD NORCROSS (D-NJ) TIM RYAN (D-OH) RICK LARSEN (D-WA) CHELLIE PINGREE (D-ME) TED DEUTCH (D-FL) BRIAN HIGGINS (D-NY) PAT MALONEY (D-NY) PETER WELCH (D-VT) RICHARD NEAL (D-MA) CHERI BUSTOS (D-IL) JOHN CONYERS (D-MI) CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (D-MD) MARCY KAPTUR (D-OH) MARK TAKANO (D-CA) KATHERINE CLARK (D-MA) ###
11.21.2016	South Windsor, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented South Windsor resident Fred Babbitt with the Ambassador for Peace Medal and the Medal of Gratitude. “It is always a privilege to present our veterans with the medals they earned,” said Larson. “I commend Mr. Babbitt for his service to our nation during the Korean War. For too long, the Korean War has been known as the Forgotten War, but it would be more apt to call it the Forgotten Victory. Thanks to the efforts of Mr. Babbitt and our nation’s courageous veterans, Korea and its people are thriving.” Mr. Babbitt served as a Radioman Second Class in the U.S. Navy from 1951 to 1955. He spent over three years in the Foreign and Sea Service, and has also received the Korean Presidential Unit Citation, Korean Service Medal, UN Service Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Good Conduct Medal, and China Service Medal. He accepted his medals alongside his wife, Doris Babbitt. ###
11.16.2016	Washington — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) on Wednesday applauded over $600,000 in federal Long Island Sound Futures Fund grants to eleven community conservation projects throughout Connecticut. The projects will focus on coastal habitat restoration and improving water quality in the Long Island Sound and waterways that feed into the Sound. The federal funds are from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “Our state relies on a healthy Long Island Sound. Whether it’s training student conservation workers, creating fish passages at dams, or restoring coastal habitats for wildlife, community organizations across the state are doing incredible work to protect our coastline. These federal funds will go a long way to leverage increased investment in their projects. Congratulations to all the organizations that received Long Island Sound Futures Fund grants,” said the delegation. Further details on the grant awardees are below: Bridgeport: Coastal Stewardship and Youth Conservation Training Program at Pleasure Beach: The Connecticut Audubon Society will receive $35,000 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $35,100, to employ ten students at Pleasure Beach in Bridgeport to conserve beach-nesting coastal birds and provide training to twenty-five city employees on conservation efforts at the beach. Bridgeport: Green Infrastructure for Beardsley Zoo: The Connecticut Fund for the Environment and Save the Sound will receive $149,833 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $75,880, to install green infrastructure, including enhancing existing lawn areas with bioretention gardens and tree pits and replacing 4,000 square feet of pavement to better capture and treat 1,000,000 gallons of stormwater runoff each year. Centerbrook: Planning for Restoring Fish Passage on the Falls River: The Nature Conservancy of Connecticut will receive $59,982 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $40,960, to design fish passages at two dams along the Falls River, opening up 45 acres and a mile and a half of stream habitat for alewife and blueback herring. The Nature Conservancy will also expand public education programs on river health and the critical connection between freshwater habitats and Long Island Sound. Fairfield County: Coastal Youth Stewards: The North American Marine Environment Protection Association will receive $6,917 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $5,236, to engage in beach clean-ups with 150 students from Bridgeport, Stamford, Ridgefield, Southport and Fairfield. The project will prevent over 1,500 pounds of debris from entering Long Island Sound waters and encourage students to become environmental stewards through hands-on education on the Sound. Fairfield County: Engaging Student Scientists for Long Island Sound: Earthplace - The Nature Discovery will receive $32,829 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $34,050, to engage over forty high school and college students in Fairfield County in practical learning programs to prepare them for careers in conservation. Farmington Valley: River Smart Community Stormwater Education in the Farmington River Watershed for Long Island Sound: The Farmington River Watershed Association will receive $31,173 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $32,810, to develop a community outreach program aimed at reducing polluted stormwater in towns along the Pequabuck and Still Rivers, including Simsbury, Farmington, Avon, Barkhamsted, Winsted, and Bristol. Groton: Sound Engagement for Families at Mystic Aquarium, Barn Island Wildlife Management Area, Pawcatuck, and Bluff Point State Park: The Sea Research Foundation at Mystic Aquarium will receive $9,300 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $11,895, to conduct community engagement programs, including a Long Island Sound Day celebration. Norwalk: Village Creek Salt Marsh Restoration Demonstration: The Norwalk Land Trust will receive $20,000 in federal EPA funds for the restoration of eight acres of salt meadows in Norwalk. Storrs: A Blue Marine Plan for Long Island Sound: The University of Connecticut will receive $34,997 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $29,997, to create an online resource for the Sound’s watershed along Connecticut and New York. The resource will help to develop a “Blue Marine Plan” to keep track of ecological, economic, and recreational activity along the Sound to better protect and restore it. Stratford: Coastal Dune Restoration at Stratford Point: Sacred Heart University will receive $200,000 in federal EPA funds to restore 1.5 acres of coastal dune habitats of coastal birds and the tiger beetle at Stratford Point. Stonington: Stonington Harbor and Coastline Water Quality Monitoring and Education Initiative: The Sea Research Foundation at Mystic Aquarium will receive $24,671 in federal EPA funds, along with a grantee match of $24,710, to monitor and identify local pollution sources, including nitrogen pollution, along the coast and conduct a public education program. ###
11.14.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) reacted to the announcement that President-Elect Donald Trump had appointed Breitbart News Chairman Steve Bannon as his Chief Strategist: "As the duly elected president, Donald Trump is entitled to appoint whoever he chooses to his White House. However, this choice has left many Americans--including a number of my constituents--deeply disturbed and sincerely troubled. In the words of the late Maya Angelou, 'When someone shows you who they are, believe them; the first time.' The content Bannon curated in his role at Breitbart News has more than shown who he is." ###
11.09.2016	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the outcome of the 2016 presidential election: “The American people have spoken, and they have called for change. I offer my congratulations to President-Elect Donald J. Trump with the understanding that we must pull together to move the nation forward. "With the Republicans now in control of all levers of government--including the Executive branch, both Legislative chambers, and the pathway to the Supreme Court--the responsibility of governing rests with the majority. Yet we remain committed to the principles that were so eloquently laid out by Secretary Hillary Clinton today: that we are stronger when we are united, and that we are all Americans first--regardless of gender, race, sexual orientation, religion, or even political party. A great leader leads by example, and Secretary Clinton's grace under pressure and appeal for the peaceful transition of power reminds us why we were with her. "We wish Mr. Trump all the best, and we offer whatever help we can provide during this transition. We are all deeply indebted to Secretary Clinton for her enormous service to this nation. To echo her sentiments, it is time now to have faith in one another and not lose heart, for there is more work to be done. God bless her, and God bless America." ###
10.29.2016	Southington, CT – Saturday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Warren Abell of Southington with the medals he earned for his honorable service during World War II. “Sergeant Abell served our country bravely during World War II. Humble men like him, came back after heroically fighting tyranny, without saying much, and living their day to day lives,” said Larson. “Today, I am honored to be able to present Sergeant Abell with his medals for his honorable service.” Mr. Abell served as a Sergeant in the U.S. Army. He served from October 26th, 1944 to November 24th, 1945 and reenlisted on November 25th, 1945, where he served until May 9th, 1947, when he was honorably discharged. For his service in the U.S. Army, Mr. Abell was presented with the following medals: European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal World War II Victory Medal Army of Occupation Medal with Germany Clasp Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII ###
10.28.2016	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) applauded a U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) grant for $5,123,777 to The WorkPlace to provide job training and employment services statewide through the Senior Community Service Employment Program (SCSEP). The award provides funding through the end of Program Year 2016 and following that, DOL expects grantees to receive funding for an additional three years. “America’s seniors are valued members of our community and we must do everything we can to ensure that they have opportunities to be part of our workforce. Today’s funding will enable more seniors to not only participate in job training and secure employment, but also to contribute to our state through community service,” said the delegation. “We congratulate The WorkPlace for their tireless efforts in helping Connecticut’s seniors reenter the workforce, and applaud the U.S. Department of Labor for this critical investment in our community.” “We are extremely pleased to be selected to provide this very important program that will expand opportunities for older, low-income adults to achieve economic self-sufficiency,” said Joseph Carbone, President and CEO of The WorkPlace. “Our experience serving the long-term unemployed through the nationally recognized Platform to Employment program has prepared us to provide the most promising workforce strategies to help individuals learn the employment skills needed to obtain good jobs and achieve financial stability. Our great appreciation goes to Senators Blumenthal and Murphy as well as Representatives Himes, DeLauro, Larson, Courtney, and Esty for their support of this opportunity.” According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the SCSEP fosters economic self-sufficiency for older, low-income adults by providing tangible job skills training through community service assignments at non-profit and public facilities. Participants are unemployed, low-income individuals, ages 55 years and older with poor employment prospects who will gain access to needed services. Participants can also receive employment assistance through the American Job Centers. ###
10.25.2016	Aberdeen, MD – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) attended the dedication of the Gold Star Mothers Sculpture in honor of Gold Star Mothers and Families at Aberdeen Proving Ground in Aberdeen, MD. Rep. Larson was accompanied by Gold Star Mother Kathryn Cross of Glastonbury, Mayor of East Hartford Marcia Leclerc, and Vietnam veterans Craig M. Jordan and Paul F. Barry, Jr. from Connecticut. Rep. Larson also presented an American flag and Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition to Edward St. John of St. John Properties, who hosted the event. "As we know, freedom has a price," said Larson. "We must never forget the immense sacrifice that Gold Star Mothers and Families have made for our country. They have lost sons and daughters to the cause of keeping us safe. Less than one percent of our country carry this burden, and we must always be mindful of their pain and loss. This beautiful memorial is but a small gesture to express our country's deep gratitude. "I was honored to be joined by Kathryn T. Cross of Glastonbury, who lost her son, Tyler J. Connely. She is the very picture of fortitude and grace, and our nation owes her and the other Gold Star Mothers and Families an incredible debt. I would also like to acknowledge my friend and colleague, Representative Dutch Ruppersberger of Maryland, for whom I have a deep respect; Mayor Leclerc of East Hartford, and my good friends Craig Jordan and Paul Barry, both of whom served in Vietnam and are members of my Veterans Advisory Council. I am pleased to share this moment with all of them." The Gold Star Mothers Sculpture was created by Will Hemsley of Maryland, and it sits before the ‘Fallen Star’ Memorial, also by Will Hemsley, and his father, Tilghman Hemsley. ###
10.21.2016	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Ambassador Ahn Ho-Young of the Republic of Korea held a special medal ceremony for veterans of the Korean War. Larson and Ambassador Ahn worked together to secure the Medal of Gratitude for nearly 100 local Korean War veterans. “The Korean War has been called the “Forgotten War” but should be called the “Forgotten Victory,” said Rep. Larson. “It is a tremendous privilege to stand alongside Ambassador Ahn to honor these veterans who fought so bravely for their country. Having visited Korea earlier this year, I saw firsthand how its people are thriving, and I took note of its superior infrastructure and transportation systems. Both are a testament to the sacrifice and dedication of those like General Jim Thowe, who we honored here today, and who is a member of my Veterans Advisory Council, and of all the veterans who helped spread the word, especially Jim Shelmerdine and Fred Clark of East Hartford; Omer Deabay and Jim Bousquet of Bristol, and Art Sladyk of South Windsor. “I would also like to thank Commissioner Sean Connolly for all the work he does for veterans, and Lt General (Ret) Michael Moeller of Pratt & Whitney for generously hosting us here today.” Rep. Larson and Ambassador Ahn last met prior to the Congressman's visit to Korea in August. While in Korea, Larson discussed the impact of the Korean War, his own efforts to ensure Korean War veterans receive the care and recognition they earned, and visited with our troops who are stationed at the DMZ. Ambassador Ahn’s visit to East Hartford also included meetings with local business leaders, a tour of the Pratt Customer Training Facility, speaking before the World Affairs Council, and a tour of Goodwin College. List of Veterans honored: Howard Achille Paul Albert Henry Allain Peter Anthony Benjamin Appleton Maurice Archambault Richard Avery Warren Avery William Baker Paul Barbour Nathan Barsky Robert Batka Donald Bishop Edward Bolles Jim Bousquet Michael Brown Joseph Caporale Michael Cappa Theodore Carron Henry Carron Fred Clark Edmund Covaleski Luicien Daigle Clifford Daugherty Omer Deabay Victor Dellaripa Daniel DeMartin Alexander Donald Albert Donn Earl Dube Walter Dull John Fay Richard Frawley Edward Goin John Furnezes Nicholas Gandolfo Kenneth Gertz Robert Gleckman Donald Hauser Lawrence Goldman Norman Green Henry Grejdus Albert Grimaldi Andrew Hall Joseph Halloran Joseph Hendron Peter Intagliata Russell Heslin William Hill William Hill Robert Hornish Richard Hurley James Hussey Lionel Jackowitz Richard Lacafta Wilfred Lavoie Vincent Lawlor Adrien Leclerc Herbert Lee Jr. Edwin Linden Salvatore Malinguaggio Nick Mango Lehman Mann Melvin Marcus Ernest Maynard Wallace Mercer Walter Mercer John Migliaro Robert Moeller Walter Moriarty George Noewathe Robert Roser Francis Parker John Piechowski Richard Ptachinski Charles Regulbuto Henry Rempt Bernard Renouf Charles Ricker Armand Solomita Carlo Sammarco Allen Schindler Alfred Schindler James Shelmerdine Robert Sherman Lloyd Sherwood James Simon Dwight Slocum Rene Soto Lionel Soucy James Sparkowski Richard Steele Richard Stolarz Eugene Sullivan Jim Throwe Anthony Torsiello Sanford Warshavsky Harry White Walter Wilson James Woodward Robert Yaglowski William Yebram Anthony Zacchio Dominic Zacchio Walter Zajac Raymond Zakrzewski Robert Zettergen ###
10.19.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the University of St. Joseph’s School of Pharmacy. In 2009, Larson secured $175K for the School of Pharmacy, and has continually supported their efforts to train passionate, knowledgeable pharmacists. “The School of Pharmacy does vital work in our community, both in helping to fill the shortage of pharmacists across the nation and by conducting important research on a number of subjects,” said Larson. “Just today, I learned how researchers at USJ are studying new ways to combat the addictiveness of opioids. As our nation continues to grapple with the opioid and heroin epidemic, it is more important than ever that we think outside the box and find new solutions to this difficult challenge.” The American Association of Colleges of Pharmacy estimates that by 2020, the nation will have a shortage of 157,000 pharmacists, making the USJ School of Pharmacy a vital part of the push to expand that workforce. ###
10.19.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the South Park Inn, a homeless shelter that serves nearly 1,500 men, women, and children each year, and has sheltered more than 60,000 since it opened its doors. “Brian Baker first started working as a volunteer at South Park over 30 years ago, and I cannot thank him and his entire team enough for the tremendous job they do providing shelter and support for those who need it most,” said Larson. “Whether through housing homeless veterans or reaching out to those living outdoors, the South Park Inn is there for the most vulnerable among us. I am proud to support the South Park Inn, and I will keep fighting for the funding it and other homeless shelters need to provide these invaluable services.” The South Park Inn receives more than half of its funding from government sources, including the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Larson has consistently supported programs like HUD’s Continuum of Care Program and the VA’s Grant and Per Diem Program that allow homeless shelters to serve our most vulnerable citizens. On any given night, South Park Inn houses 118 individuals, including veterans and families. ###
10.19.2016	Rocky Hill, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Lt. Gov. Nancy Wyman, CT Department of Veterans Affairs Commissioner Sean Connolly, Captain Paul “Buddy” Bucha, Major General Thadeau Martin and over 300 Vietnam veterans in a ceremony to honor their service. “The Vietnam War and the veterans who served our country so bravely are reminders of the need to always distinguish between the warrior and the war,” said Larson. “Our Vietnam veterans sacrificed greatly for our freedom, and came home to a public largely indifferent to their struggles. We must never let that happen again. "Perhaps because of the welcome they received on their return, our Vietnam veterans have been some of the strongest advocates for our veterans today. I am always moved by the work of veterans like John Scanlon and Paul Barry, who give endlessly of themselves to help those who need it. All of the veterans present here today have sacrificed more than we can possibly imagine, and I commend them for their service." Last week, Larson held a small ceremony to thank a group of Vietnam veterans and Gold Star Families who brought the Global War on Terror Wall of Remembrance to West Hartford. He meets regularly with his Veterans Advisory Board to discuss ways to better serve veterans in Connecticut and across the nation. ###
10.19.2016	Winsted, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) honored Anthony Zacchio of Winsted with the Korean Ambassador for Peace Medal. The Republic of Korea offers this medal to Korean War veterans in gratitude for their service and assistance in preserving Korea’s freedom. “The Korean War was known for too long as the Forgotten War,” said Larson. “It should really be known as the Forgotten Victory for all our veterans did for the people of Korea. Having just returned from a trip to Korea, I saw firsthand how its people are thriving. That is a testament to the sacrifice and dedication of those like Corporal Zacchio. I thank him for his service, and it was my deep honor to present him with this medal." Mr. Zacchio served with the Marine Corps from March 1952 to March 1955 and spent 15 months overseas. He has also been honored with the Korean Service Medal, the UN Service Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, the Overseas Service Ribbon and the Connecticut Wartime Service Medal. ###
10.14.2016	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, and Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin announced that $4.75 million in federal public safety grants are being awarded to the City of Hartford, helping the state’s capital city make its streets safer for kids and families. “These major federal grants — including the largest COPS award nationwide — will bring more officers and resources to Hartford neighborhoods, like North Hartford’s Promise Zone, enabling the kind of community-oriented policing we know can drive down crime and improve trust between police and the communities they serve and protect," said U.S. Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and Congressman Larson in a joint statement. "At a time when communities are struggling more than ever to balance budget constraints with the need for critical local services, we will keep working to bring federal dollars back to Connecticut. Congratulations to the Hartford Police Department and the City of Hartford. We look forward to seeing these new officers out in the community soon.” “Now more than ever, we’re focused on making our city safer while at the same time engaging the Hartford community in a true public safety partnership,” said Mayor Bronin. “At a time when Hartford is battling a fiscal crisis, these Department of Justice grants – which are extremely competitive – will help us continue to invest in making our neighborhoods safer and stronger. Our team worked hard to develop winning grant proposals, and I’m grateful to Senators Blumenthal and Murphy, Congressman Larson, and President Obama’s Administration for their tremendous partnership. No other city in the country received all of these grants.” One of the three grants received by the City – the U.S. Department of Justice Byrne Criminal Justice Innovations Program Grant – is for $1,000,000 to support a public safety initiative in the North Hartford Promise Zone (NHPZ). The funds will go towards the NHPZ Community Safety Project, which is a three-year initiative led by the Hartford Police Department to reduce gang-related and violent criminal activity in the Upper Albany, Clay Arsenal, and Northeast neighborhoods. A second grant received by the City – the U.S. Department of Justice Technical Innovations for Public Safety (TIPS) Grant – is for $245,681. The funds will go towards enhancing the capabilities of Hartford’s Real Time Crime Center (RTCC) through the purchase of technology, helping it become a regional hub that offers critical insights into public safety data. The third grant received by the City – the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office Award – is for $1.5M per year for three years to support the hiring of 15 new police officers. The Hartford Police Department’s primary financial obligations for these fifteen officers during the three-year period are equipment, uniforms, and costs related to the recruiting process. In accepting the grant, the Hartford Police Department agrees to maintain those fifteen officers for one additional year following the three-year period. The grant will support the hiring of new officers in FY2018. “I am extremely grateful to our federal delegation who continues to work hard on our behalf in Washington,” said Council President T.J. Clarke who serves as co-chair of the City’s Public Safety Committee. “I would also like to thank Mayor Bronin and Chief Rovella for their leadership as well. These funds will help the City of Hartford to hire more police officers, enhance community policing, and increase the quality of life in our city. These funds come to us at a time where it’s much needed for our great city.” “I am extremely happy that we are receiving funds to improve the quality of life in our city,” said City Councilman James Sanchez who also serves as co-chair of the City’s Public Safety Committee. “I’m looking forward to the positive changes ahead.” # # #
10.12.2016	West Hartford, CT – Last night, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognized the CT Friends of Veterans, Inc. for their work in organizing the Global War on Terror Wall of Remembrance’s recent stop in West Hartford. The traveling memorial was in Connecticut from August 26th – 28th, allowing veterans and their loved ones a chance to pay their respects. Larson hosted a reception for the CT Friends of Veterans at American Legion Post 96, where he presented them with the Fallen Star. “John Scanlon and the CT Friends of Veterans did a tremendous job in bringing the Wall of Remembrance to West Hartford,” said Larson. “Memorials like this give veterans, their loved ones, and our whole community the chance to mourn those we have lost and find comfort with one another. Organizing such events is often long, thankless work. That is why I wanted to recognize John and all of the other veterans and organizers for their efforts.” Larson presented the CT Friends of Veterans with replicas of the Fallen Star Memorial at the Aberdeen Proving Ground. The monument is dedicated to Major General Harold J. Greene, who was killed in action in Afghanistan on August 5, 2014. Larson recognized the following individuals: MaryEllen Attardo Paul Barry Renee Beaudry McCue Linda Bixler Richard Bixler Cindi Chesters Vernon Eldred Christina Erskine Peter Galgano Charles Goodwin Tammy Goodwin Ben Grainger Jay Greco Denise Johnson Kyla Lenihan Monique Melanson-Hunter Crissy Meyer Laussier Leesa Philippon Ray Philippon James Prindle Jeffrey Prindle Mike Rogalsky John Scanlon Dave Sgro Brian Shingler ###
10.05.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that he has appointed Bristol residents Art Ward and Frank Nicastro to his Veterans and Military Advisory Council. Art Ward, a Marine Corps Vietnam veteran, served as Mayor of Bristol for six years. After serving in the war, Ward worked as a Veterans Affairs Officer with the State of Connecticut, and as a member of the Bristol City Council for 14 years, before being elected Mayor. Frank Nicastro, a six-year veteran of the U.S. Navy, spent three years aboard a U.S. Navy Destroyer and 24 years in the Connecticut National Guard. He currently represents the 79th District in the Connecticut House of Representatives. Nicastro, who is retiring from the General Assembly at the end of this term, is also a former Bristol Mayor and City Councilman. “I am grateful that these two Veterans and lifelong public servants have agreed to join the First District’s Veterans and Military Advisory Council,” said Larson. “I know that Art and Frank will bring great insight to the Council given their vast experience. I look forward to working with them and the rest of the members of the council to serve our veterans.” Larson meets with the First Congressional District Veterans and Military Advisory Council in his Hartford Office and in the community throughout the year. Members of the Advisory Council provide Larson with valuable insight and innovative ideas that guide his decision making on veterans and military matters. ###
09.28.2016	Washington – Led by the four organizers of last June’s sit-in--including Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) as well as the chair and vice-chair of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force--97 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today wrote to Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Republican Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, requesting that they keep the House in session until Congress finally takes action on America’s epidemic of gun violence. “Within a few hours the Republican majority is preparing to adjourn for a six week recess without taking any action on gun safety legislation. When we return to session on November 14th, we will likely be faced with the sad reality that thousands of Americans will have lost their lives to gun violence while members of this body were campaigning for re-election,” the Members wrote. “We strongly urge you to cancel the upcoming recess to debate and vote on responsible gun safety legislation to help save American lives.” Last June, Democrats organized a 26-hour sit-in on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to demand Congressional action following the worst mass shooting in American history at Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida. Since then, House Republicans have refused to consider any legislation to reduce gun violence, even as more than 4,100 more Americans have lost their lives. The full text of today’s letter is embedded below. September 28, 2016 Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader McCarthy: In June, House Democrats demanded a vote on the bipartisan ‘No Fly-No Buy’ bill and comprehensive background check legislation following the tragic shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando which claimed the lives of 49 Americans. Instead of allowing the House to debate and vote on this legislation, the Republican majority decided to adjourn early for a seven week recess. At least 2,015 Americans were killed as a result of gun violence during the August recess. In fact, more than 10,700 Americans have already lost their lives to gun violence this year. Each day 297 Americans are shot in murders, assaults, suicides, attempted suicides, unintentional shootings, and police intervention and almost 30 percent of those victims die from gun-related injuries. Since Congress came back into session on September 6th, there have been mass shootings in places like Texas and Washington State. Meanwhile, the Republican majority has refused to even allow a debate on how to address the epidemic of gun violence in our country. Within a few hours the Republican majority is preparing to adjourn for a six week recess without taking any action on gun safety legislation. When we return to session on November 14th, we will likely be faced with the sad reality that thousands of Americans will have lost their lives to gun violence while members of this body were campaigning for re-election. We strongly urge you to cancel the upcoming recess to debate and vote on responsible gun safety legislation to help save American lives. If we adjourn without addressing this issue, thousands of American families will be torn apart over the recess because we failed to act. We ask you to allow a vote on the bipartisan “No Fly, No Buy’ legislation, which the Republican nominee for President Donald Trump said he supported in the first presidential debate on September 26th. We also ask that you bring the bipartisan comprehensive background check bill to the floor, which enjoys widespread support among the American public. Sincerely, Rep. David N. Cicilline (RI-1) Rep. John Lewis (GA-5) Rep. Katherine Clark (MA-5) Rep. John Larson (CT-1) Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-5) Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) ###
09.28.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the death of Former Israeli President Shimon Peres: “Today we lost a champion for peace and one of the most consequential political figures of our era. Shimon Peres, a founding father of Israel, worked with every American president since John F. Kennedy, and served as one of the architects of the Oslo peace accords. I was honored to have had the opportunity to meet him. We will remember him for his deep optimism and unflagging belief in the potential for peace in the Middle East. He will be greatly missed, though his legacy and work will live on. My heart goes out to his family and the people of Israel.” ###
09.27.2016	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Rep.Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) announced $70,000 in federal funding from the Economic Development Administration to the Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce to establish an economic development planning framework, process, and strategy that supports private capital investment and job creation in New Britain, Berlin, Southington and Plainville. “This wise investment will help build stronger communities --- creating jobs and boosting economic development. The funding will allow the Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce to create a robust strategy that will bring economic revitalization and highly skilled jobs to Central Connecticut. We look forward to the impact that this federal investment will have on our state,” said Larson, Blumenthal, Murphy, and Esty. "The Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce is proud to win funding from the Economic Development Administration. This award will allow us to continue to coordinate and support economic development in the communities of New Britain, Berlin, Southington and Plainville, building a stronger Central Connecticut,” said Robin Sharp, President, Board of Directors, Greater New Britain Chamber of Commerce and Executive Director of the YWCA in New Britain. ###
09.26.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) announced a $7.4 million contract between the United States Army and Barkhamsted’s Tru-Hitch, Inc. The contract will procure the reset or repair of up to 90 Fifth Wheel Towing Recovery Devices and 90 Tilt Deck Recovery Trailers, which are used to recover military vehicles that have been damaged in the field. “Connecticut continues to play a vital role in our nation’s defense,” said Larson. “I am proud to see Tru-Hitch, Inc. once again awarded a major contract with our military. It was my great pleasure to visit their Barkhamsted facility last November, where I saw firsthand the tremendous work they have done to allow the safe recovery of military vehicles in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere. Congratulations to Tru-Hitch and President Marty Marola on this new award.” “Tru-Hitch is a Connecticut gem—a small business with an outsized impact helping our nation’s warfighters safely recover vehicles on the battlefield,” said Blumenthal. “I saw firsthand the skill and ingenuity of their local workforce when I visited the company, and am proud to see their continued success. Connecticut manufacturers play a vital role in supporting our national security, and I will remain a vocal advocate for their unparalleled value in my role on the Senate Armed Services Committee.” “Tru-Hitch is becoming a go-to for our military when it comes to safely recovering military vehicles,” said Murphy. “I couldn’t be prouder of the success of Tru-Hitch, and I congratulate Marty and the whole team on this major contract.” This is Tru-Hitch, Inc.’s fourth active contract with the United States Army. ###
09.26.2016	Washington – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Representatives Joe Courtney (CT-2) Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) on Monday applauded over $4.25 million in U.S. Department of Labor YouthBuild grants to help young people reach key educational and career milestones. Earlier today, Blumenthal, Murphy and DeLauro visited EMERGE YouthBuild in New Haven, one of the grant recipients, to celebrate the new funding. Established in 2006, the YouthBuild program provides funding for local non-profit organizations providing education and training for at-risk youth aged 16-24. Participants in the program learn construction skills while building or rehabilitation housing for low-income individuals, and attend classes to help them earn their high school diploma or equivalent degree. For the first time in the program’s history, applications from communities designated as Promise Zones, such as North Hartford, were given priority consideration by the Department of Labor. “These grants are all about increasing opportunity in Connecticut. YouthBuild puts at-risk young people to work and helps them receive the education they need to find a career and build a better life. From the Promise Zone in Hartford’s North End to neighborhoods in Bridgeport and New Haven, these grants will help remake communities and inspire young people,” said the delegation. The following Connecticut organizations received federal YouthBuild grants: Capital Workforce Partners of New Britain received $1,099,680 to enroll and train 64 young adults in their New Britain YouthBuild program. Each student will earn up to 12 industry-recognized credentials and a GED or high school degree equivalent while building two single-family, affordable houses in New Britain. Community Renewal Team, Inc. in Hartford received $1,099,997 to provide 62 at-risk youth an opportunity to improve their education, receive occupational training, and develop leadership skills. In addition to professional and educational development, Community Renewal Team’s Behavioral Health Services receive assistance with substance use or mental health issues receive treatment at no cost to program participants or their families. Partners include the city of Hartford, Carpenters Union, Capitol Community College, Mutual Housing Association of Greater Hartford, the Workforce Board, Capitol Region Education Center, Rebuild Hartford, and Habitat for Humanity Hartford. EMERGE Connecticut, Inc. of New Haven received $960,976 to serve 76 young adults aged 16 to 24 from New Haven. Students will engage in academic and technical training, construct three housing sites, earn their high school diploma or GED, and volunteer on community service projects. Partners include the City of New Haven, Workforce Alliance, and Neighborhood Housing Services of New Haven. Additional supports and services will be provided by Gateway Community College, Project Longevity, Elm City Housing Authority, the Yale Undergraduate Prison Project, local trade unions, and other organizations. The WorkPlace in Bridgeport received $1,098,026 to enroll and train 65 at-risk youth from Bridgeport. The students will construct at least two units of low income housing, while earning their high school diploma or GED and learning core construction skills. Partner organizations include Habitat for Humanity of Coastal Fairfield County, Park City Communities, the City of Bridgeport and the Bridgeport Police Department, Housatonic Community College, and Union Locals 777 (Plumbers and Pipefitters), 210 (Carpenters), 488 (Electrical) and 665 (Laborers International). ###
09.23.2016	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the Connecticut State Police have been awarded a $1.5 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Justice (USDOJ) to expand their ongoing efforts to address the issue of heroin and opioid abuse and addiction. "Opioid abuse is a problem that is impacting every corner of our nation, including here in our state, which is why we are increasing efforts at every possible level to fight and put a stop to this crisis," Governor Malloy said. "Battling this epidemic requires a multifaceted approach between public health and public safety professionals - an effort that not only improves investigations, but one that also provides necessary treatment and saves lives." The funds will be used towards investigating illicit activities related to the distribution of heroin and unlawful distribution of prescriptive opioids. The Connecticut State Police plan to utilize the grant through a two-pronged approach, including: Focusing on interrupting the transportation and sale of opiates in Connecticut by the identification, disruption, and dismantling of drug trafficking organizations through the maintenance and enhancement of the current Statewide Narcotics Task Force. This will include strengthening partnerships among federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies to combine strategy and efforts requiring extended use of law enforcement personnel in the areas of investigation and intervention. Enhancing community policing interventions by partnering with the judicial branch and prosecutors in search of alternatives to incarceration for those requiring substance abuse treatment interventions, and including the development of a best practice model used by individuals with mental health or substance use disorder. "Interdiction is an essential part of prevention, and this funding will significantly support Connecticut State Police troopers' efforts to disrupt and dismantle the traffickers responsible for bringing heroin into our state," Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection Commissioner Dora B. Schriro said. "In addition to interrupting traffickers, our troopers are leading the way in focused Community Policing, as well as bringing back individuals on the brink of overdose a second chance at recovery. This funding will enhance all of these crucial efforts." "Opioid addiction is ravaging communities across Connecticut, and we need an all-hands-on-deck approach to combatting the deadly epidemic," the members of Connecticut's Congressional delegation said in a joint statement. "This major federal grant will help support smart and strategic community policing - enhancing partnerships to dismantle drug trafficking rings while also providing alternatives to incarceration for individuals in need of substance abuse and mental health treatment. While we welcome this federal aid, we also acknowledge that this is a drop in the bucket of what is needed nationwide, and we call on GOP leadership in Washington to do their job and provide states and communities the funding they desperately need to address this crisis." The competitive grant was awarded through USDOJ's 2016 Community Oriented Policing Services Anti-Heroin Task Force Program. ###
09.21.2016	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) released the following statement after Lockheed Martin announced they would build nearly 200 new CH-53K King Stallion helicopters at Sikorsky in Stratford, bringing critical federal investment to Connecticut’s defense manufacturing industry. “This deal is a win for Connecticut, Sikorsky, and workers up and down the supply chain,” said the delegation. “The biggest news is that the CH-53K King Stallion helicopter, which could have been assembled outside of Connecticut, will now be made in Stratford. This helicopter represents the future of Sikorsky's production line, so it cements the company's presence in Stratford for decades to come.” “Stratford became world famous for building Black Hawks, the best military helicopter ever built. Thanks to the leadership of Governor Malloy and close cooperation among Lockheed Martin and federal, state, and local leaders, we can all celebrate that the next generation of world-class helicopters will remain Connecticut-made,” the delegation added.
09.15.2016	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Joe Courtney (CT-02), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) announced $339,612 in Museums for America grants from the Institute of Museum and Library Services (IMLS). The federal funding will be used to support projects and ongoing activities for museums and historical societies in Hartford, Old Lyme, Kent, Mystic, and New Haven. Connecticut Landmarks in Hartford will receive $150,000 to engage with teens to create new exhibitions and related programs at the Nathan Hale Homestead, the Hempstead House, and the Butler-McCook House and Garden. Florence Griswold Museum in Old Lyme will receive $49,530 to develop, produce, and evaluate a prototype online learning portal that will help Connecticut elementary school teachers and students learn about state history and culture through the museum's collections of American art. Kent Historical Society in Kent will receive $17,394 to purchase new storage cabinets and a dehumidifier to relocate and rehouse a collection of artwork from their historic house museum, Seven Hearths. Mystic Seaport in Mystic will receive $24,971 to extend the reach, impact, and diversity of its first-person interpretation program, “Witness to History.” Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale University in New Haven will receive $97,717 to significantly improve storage conditions and accessibility for their herpetology and ichthyology collections currently stored in substandard cabinetry. “Connecticut is home to many magnificent museums and historical societies that play a vital role in enriching our communities. This well-deserved funding will help strengthen and support these valuable institutions so they can continue to highlight our history, attract tourists, and engage and educate our children for generations to come,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, Larson, Courtney, and Esty. The Institute of Museum and Library Services-- an independent, federal agency-- is the primary source of federal support for the nation's 123,000 libraries and 35,000 museums. ###
09.14.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced an amendment to the United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians Act to provide a tax exemption for volunteer firefighters and other first responders. “First responders put their lives on the line every day to keep us safe,” said Larson. “This week we paused to remember the brave men and women who ran up the stairs in the Twin Towers as others ran down. They were heroes, and many paid the ultimate price for their courage. All across our country, we are protected by men and women who volunteer their time and services. Not only do they keep us from harm, but they save our towns and municipalities billions of dollars each year. In return, they are taxed when communities try to reward them with small incentives. That cannot stand. Our first responders give us so much. It is time for us to give them the support they deserve.” In the past five years, the number of volunteer firefighters in the United States has declined by nearly 41,000 while the number of volunteers over the age of 50 has steadily increased. To boost recruitment and retention, many volunteer fire and EMS agencies provide minor financial and non-monetary incentives, including but not limited to uniforms, annual award ceremonies, and reduced property taxes. Currently, first responders must pay federal taxes on these modest rewards. Larson’s amendment would exempt volunteer first responders from federal taxation on any property tax reductions and up to $600 per year in other benefits. ###
09.14.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) expressed his disappointment that Republican Leadership would not allow his amendment to the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (H.R. 5620). Larson’s amendment was identical to part of a bipartisan Senate measure that has been endorsed by the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, and Disabled American Veterans. “Our veterans should never be used as a political football,” said Larson. “By ruling my amendment out of order, Republican Leadership has put partisanship above the well-being of those who have selflessly served our nation. I am deeply disappointed that an amendment backed by our veterans themselves could not be made in order. By moving a partisan bill forward without improvements, Republicans are only further delaying the action our veterans desperately need to improve accountability at the VA. I will keep fighting to protect the constitutional rights of VA workers and whistleblowers while still providing a more effective way to remove bad actors.” Larson’s amendment would allow for the efficient removal of employees with reported misconduct and poor performance while still allowing for fair, evidence-based reviews. Larson's amendment enjoys support from: American Legion Veterans of Foreign Wars Disabled American Veterans Paralyzed Veterans of America Office of Special Counsel Government Accountability Project National Association of State Approving Agencies National Guard Association of the U.S. Veterans Education Success Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors (TAPS) Project on Government Oversight Nurses Organization of Veterans Affairs (NOVA) Military Officers Association of America Vietnam Veterans of America AMVETS National Alliance to End Homelessness National Coalition for Homeless Veterans ###
09.14.2016	HARTFORD – U.S. Rep John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) on Tuesday applauded a major $2.7 million federal grant from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) for United Technologies Research Center in East Hartford. Specifically, the ARPA-E grant will fund United Technologies’ Synergistic Membranes and Reactants for a Transformative Flow-Battery System program to create more effective and affordable clean energy and energy storage solutions. “Connecticut is an incubator for innovation, and United Technologies Research Center in East Hartford is a prime example,” said Murphy, Blumenthal, and Larson. “We work together in Congress to fight for research and development funding for Connecticut companies. This new federal grant is important seed money for a technology that is in its beginning stages, but with the right research and development opportunities could help us find entirely new ways to generate, store, and use new sources of clean energy.” The federal grant is funded through ARPA-E’s newest program, Integration and Optimization of Novel Ion Conducting Solids (IONICS). IONICS aims to pave the way for new technologies that are too early for private investment but that address some of the limitations of current battery and fuel cell products. ###
09.12.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted Chairman Bill Shuster (PA-09) in Hartford to discuss a 100 year solution to the infrastructure challenges in the Greater Hartford region. They were joined by Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Commissioner James P. Redeker, Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin, and East Hartford Mayor Marcia Leclerc. “Infrastructure is not a partisan issue, but an American issue,” said Larson. “Our roads, highways, bridges, and transit systems are the arteries of our nation, but they are badly clogged. I am grateful to have Chairman Shuster in my district to see firsthand the challenges Hartford and the surrounding cities face, and I appreciate his commitment to strengthening our nation's infrastructure. He offered valuable insights about the power of long-term infrastructure projects to revitalize the economy and put Americans back to work. With the right investment, we can recapture our riverfront, repair crumbling roadways, and provide a solution for the region’s congestion problems for the next 100 years.” “In communities across the country, strengthening our infrastructure goes hand in hand with improving the economy and creating jobs,” said Shuster. “I appreciated the opportunity to talk with local officials and hear about the needs of the region, and I will continue to work with all my colleagues in Congress to improve our transportation systems and build a better foundation for growth.” “Throughout Connecticut, we have aging infrastructure and a dire need to do something about it,” said Esty. “Antiquated and congested transportation systems aren’t just a safety hazard; they lead to wasted fuel and increased costs, and they take commuters away from their jobs and their families. I’m so grateful to Chairman Shuster for joining us this morning to discuss bipartisan solutions for repairing and revitalizing our aging infrastructure. Together, we can build a world-class transportation system that creates jobs and spurs economic growth in Connecticut and across the country.” “The importance of infrastructure can't be understated,” said Leclerc. “Proper planning has the potential to make highly desirable land available for development in our town. The City of Hartford and the Town of East Hartford are the crossroads of New England and we carry the most significant volume of traffic on our highways, roads, and bridges. For too long we have made temporary patches to longstanding problems. We need an abiding solution that will have positive economic, employment, and quality of life benefits for our region.” ###
09.06.2016	(Hartford, CT) – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced $700,000 in Drug-Free Communities Support Program grants from the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy to provide local community coalitions in Bristol, Guilford, New London, Chester, Deep River, Essex, Putnam and Southington with funding to help prevent youth substance use, including prescription drugs, marijuana, tobacco and alcohol.“Youth substance abuse is ravaging communities across Connecticut--- leaving deaths and heartbroken families in its wake. Community coalitions are on the front line of this fight, marshalling resources and coordinating local efforts to combat prescription drug, marijuana, tobacco and alcohol abuse. These federal funds are an endorsement of the impact these coalitions have had in building safe and healthy environments for all young people,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, Larson, and Courtney.The breakdown of the grant recipients is below: Bristol Prevention Coalition for a Drug-Free Community will receive $125,000 in new funding Developmental Assets for Youth Coalition in Guilford will receive $125,000 in new funding New London Community and Campus Coalition will receive $125,000 in new funding Tri-Town Substance Abuse Prevention Coalition, serving Chester, Deep River, and Essex, will receive $125,000 in new funding Putnam PRIDE will receive $75,000 in continuation funding Southington’s Town Wide Effort to Promote Success Coalition will receive $125,000 in continuation funding The Drug-Free Communities Support Program, created by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, is the Nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. Directed by the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy, in partnership with the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the DFC Program provides grants to community coalitions to strengthen the infrastructure among local partners to create and sustain a reduction in local youth substance use. This year, the ONDCP announced 697 DFC Support Program grants nationwide, totaling $86 million. ###
09.02.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Sens. Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy, and Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that Nutmeg Big Brothers/Sister Inc. in Hartford was awarded $276,720 as part of the Senior Corps Foster Grandparent Program. The grant will allow continued investments in the program in Norwich, New London, Windham, and Willimantic, where communities were in danger of losing out on services due to funding shortfalls, with a possible expansion to other towns in the future. Volunteers with the Foster Grandparent Program mentor teenagers and children, provide one-on-one tutoring, care for premature infants or children with disabilities, and help children suffering from abuse or neglect.“Our seniors have so much to offer our communities—especially our children,” said the delegation. “Their time, insight, and compassion are valuable resources for children in difficult circumstances who need a role model or simply a friend. We are proud to see the Foster Grandparent Program continue in Connecticut and prepare economically disadvantaged children achieve better outcomes in school. This is just one example of how national and community services enriches all our lives.”This summer, Larson and Rep. John Lewis (GA-05) introduced America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act to provide more national and community service opportunities across the nation. ACTION currently has over 100 cosponsors in the House. ###
08.25.2016	Bristol, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) helped raise a flag over the A.J. DeLorenzo Towers. The towers provide housing for seniors and the disabled in Bristol. Earlier this year, Larson had the flag flown over the U.S. Capitol in honor of their years of service to the community. "We have a responsibility to ensure no senior has to worry about having a roof over their head," said Larson. "I am so proud to see the commitment of Jeff Edelson and everyone at the A.J. DeLorenzo Towers to providing quality, affordable housing to those who need it most. Seniors have given a lifetime of hard work, passion, and support to our community. They deserve to know the state and country they helped shape will look after them in return." ###
08.24.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced four new grants through the Department of Justice (DOJ) to aid the First District in its efforts to reduce gun violence, improve drug treatment and prevention programs, and support other law enforcement initiatives. Larson released the following statement:“Connecticut—like so much of our nation—continues to grapple with ongoing gun violence and an epidemic of opioid and heroin addiction. I am grateful to see the DOJ has recognized the needs of our community and issued these awards to help those who need it most. We are still in dire need of commonsense, bipartisan reforms to reduce gun violence as well as robust funding to truly address the ongoing opioid crisis—and I will continue to push for both—but these awards will help keep our families and communities significantly safer.”The First District was awarded four grants totaling approximately $1.9 million. The awards were allocated as follows: $1,739,316 to the Office of Policy and Management to reduce firearm violence, provide interventions for mentally ill offenders, enhance law enforcement response to heroin-related criminal activity, expand drug treatment and intervention programs, provide reintegration and risk reduction services for women offenders, enhance criminal justice system response to violent victim crimes, and provide technology improvements for local governments. $196,347 to the City of Hartford to increase community safety and security through the use of officer overtime to address gun violence. $22,213 to the Town of East Hartford to purchases supplies to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and assist officers during patrol activities. $14,068 to the Town of Manchester to continue the Police Activities League (PAL) Program, which keeps youth engaged in a positive program of athletic and educational enhancement. ###
08.18.2016	East Hartford, CT – This week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured East Hartford's ATI High Performance Components Group. ATI specializes in precision machining services, particularly for the Blackhawk Helicopter and other Sikorsky aircraft. Like many manufacturers in Connecticut's aerospace supply chain, ATI utilizes the R&D Tax Credit to make crucial investments in innovation. Larson worked across the aisle to ensure the R&D Tax Credit was made permanent last year.“Small businesses like ATI are the backbone of our economy--not just here in Connecticut, but across the country,” said Larson. “I am always interested to both see how our manufacturers are benefiting from the R&D Tax Credit and learn how Congress can continue to support their growth. Seeing ATI use the credit to invest in new machining processes makes it clear the Yankee ingenuity is alive and well. I am proud of the work they do to keep our nation safer. Employers like ATI are why I am fighting so hard to expand the R&D Tax Credit to help our small manufacturers grow and thrive.”This year, Larson worked with Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH) on a plan to raise the Alternative Simplified Credit from 14% to 20%. ###
08.08.2016	Glastonbury, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured Glastonbury’s Flanagan Industries, a family-owned business that produces complex cases and machined components. Flanagan Industries is one of countless small manufacturers that play a pivotal role in the production of the F-35. This summer, Larson announced that the Department of Defense was awarding Pratt & Whitney a $1.5 billion contract for 99 engines to power the F-35, allowing Flanagan and other manufacturers to ramp-up their production.“I am always proud to see firsthand the tremendous work of our small manufacturers that make up the backbone of our aerospace industry,” said Larson. "Employers like Flanagan Industries are already ramping up because of the F-35, and looking for ways to grow their workforce. I applaud Flanagan Industries for taking the initiative to fund the education and training of students at Asnuntuck Community College and hiring those students upon their graduation. These partnerships between industry and academia can help ensure Americans learn the skills necessary for the jobs available now and in the future. Over the years, I've worked with Goodwin College, Manchester Community College, and other schools to strengthen the job pipeline, and I will keep fighting to make sure employers like Flanagan can continue to take advantage of the improving economy to grow their work force." “These are amazing times to be involved in the aerospace market,” said Kevin Flanagan, Vice President of Flanagan Industries. “In the 30-plus years that I’ve been involved in this business, I have not seen this dramatic ‘Ramp Up’ on both the military and commercial engines. I would like to thank Congressman Larson for all his efforts in helping to fund the F135 Program and his continued dedication the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT).” In addition to securing additional F-35 engines to be made here in Connecticut, Larson won a victory for manufacturers when he worked with Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) to make permanent the R&D Tax Credit. This allows employers like Flanagan Industries and other manufacturers to invest in innovation and expand their workforce. In May, Larson and Rep. Pat Tiberi (R-OH) introduced their proposal to expand on that victory by raising the R&D Tax Credit from 14% to 20%. Larson also remains committed to creating more opportunities to train workers for the changing job market. ###
08.03.2016	Seoul – On Tuesday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the Korean Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) and the Joint Security Area as part of his trip to the Republic of Korea. The DMZ was created at the end of the Korean War, and acts as buffer between North and South Korea. Approximately 28,500 U.S. troops are currently stationed in the Republic of Korea."Whenever I travel, I always make it a point to meet with our brave men and women stationed overseas," said Larson. "In times of growing unrest, it is more important than ever to listen firsthand to the soldiers and officers who see new threats and challenges each day. It was an honor to visit our troops serving at the DMZ and Joint Security Area today, and I thank them for their service and commitment to our nation."During talks with our troops, I was particularly struck by the level of coordination that exists between the U.S. and R.O.K. soldiers. Working hand-in-hand and side-by-side, they truly embody the motto Katchi Gapshida: We Go Together."The U.S. and the R.O.K. have a proud history of cooperation and solidarity, and it is crucial we maintain those ties. Our visit today was a stark reminder that peace has yet to be achieved on the Korean Peninsula. Together, our nations must constantly maintain the highest level of readiness and a constant vigilance towards ongoing threats." This week, Larson is visiting the Republic of Korea to meet with key officials, discuss how to promote Connecticut businesses and exports, and visit U.S. forces stationed in the region. ###
08.02.2016	Washington - Today, the U.S. Air Force declared the F-35 has achieved Initial Operational Capability. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Co-Chair of the Joint Strike Fighter Caucus, released the following statement:"My sincere congratulations to the U.S. Military, Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed Martin, and all the suppliers and manufacturers who helped make the F-35 the most advanced aircraft in the world. This is a monumental achievement that will help protect our nation and our allies for years to come. The technology behind the F-35 is revolutionary, and I am deeply proud that Connecticut will continue to play a pivotal role in our country's defense." ###
08.02.2016	Seoul – This week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) traveled to the Republic of Korea (R.O.K.) to meet with key officials, visit the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), and discuss how to promote Connecticut businesses and exports. Upon arrival, Larson held a courtesy call with Foreign Minister Yun Byung-se to reaffirm the commitment of the United States to Korea and discuss strengthening and expanding the alliance."Given the destabilizing effects of North Korea, the U.S.– ROK alliance is more important than ever,” said Larson. “I was pleased to accept Minister Yun’s invitation to meet today and confirm that the United States remains committed to a strong alliance between our two nations. This is a mutually beneficial relationship growing more important by the day as we move beyond the Korean Peninsula to a global partnership. Korea stands with us as we tackle climate change and global development, just as they have stood with us in each of the recent conflicts we have faced. We must continue to be steadfast in our resolve. The United States Congress will continue to support this alliance in a bipartisan manner.”Larson is visiting Korea at the invitation of the Foreign Ministry. Throughout the week, he will engage in dialogue with senior Korean officials. Additionally, Larson will join Connecticut business leaders on a Department of Commerce trade initiative to promote Connecticut exports to Korea. ###
07.21.2016	Winchester, CT - Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured the American Museum of Tort Law in Winsted. Founded by native son Ralph Nader, the museum highlights cases that sought justice for those physically or emotionally wronged by a person or corporation. "As a former history teacher, I see the tremendous value in how this museum brings the law and justice alive," said Larson. "We have all heard the myths and stories around cases like the dangerous Corvair or the McDonald's hot coffee lawsuit, but the exhibits here provide context and details often lost in the retelling. This is a wonderful resource for our students, and I hope schools across Connecticut will take advantage of this gem right in our own backyard.""At this moment in our nation's history, a Museum that educates, informs and inspires about the rule of law, trial by jury, and the benefits of tort law, is more important than ever," said Richard L. Newman, executive director." We were delighted to welcome Representative Larson and his staff to the Museum, and invite everyone who would like to have fun learning about the law, to visit the Museum."The American Museum of Tort Law is located at. 654 Main St., Winsted, CT 06098. Hours are Wednesday - Monday, 10:30 - 5:00 (Closed Tuesdays). ###
07.15.2016	Washington – Last night, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) invited Mrs. Henrietta Beckman of Hartford’s North End to join him for a national speak out on gun violence. Mrs. Beckman’s son, Randy Beckman, was shot and killed in Hartford in 2002. Since his death, Mrs. Beckman has become a passionate community activist. She currently serves as president of Mothers United Against Violence, where she has pressed for action to address our nation’s gun violence epidemic. Last night, she and Larson addressed a crowd gathered at the steps of the Capitol to call on Congress to do its job and pass commonsense reforms. "When they asked us why we sat down, it was so America would stand up to the senseless violence that's cast a plague over this nation," Larson said to the crowd. "Henrietta Beckman lost her son, Randy. She--like everybody else here--carries in her heart that unrelenting love that demands not only that we sit down, but that we speak out and that Congress does its job. [Speaker Ryan and Republican Leadership] may leave today, but this issue is not going away and neither are we.""There is no pain like the pain of a mother who loses a child," Mrs. Beckman said in her remarks. "We should not be burying our children. Our children should have long lives, because that's the way God planned it. Randy was 20 years old when he was shot. He was just around the corner, sitting in his car, minding his own business when an SUV pulled up. I was still at work, but I was told the person got out of the car, they had some words, and they shot my son in the head. I stayed in that hospital for three days and hoped, hoped he would make it through. So on that fourth day when they knocked on the window of the waiting room and said, 'We lost him....' It's been 14 years since my son got shot, but as you can see, the pain never, ever goes away. And for it to still be continuing today... Young people keep losing their lives to guns. When are we going to wake up and stand up?"The ‘Lighting the Way’ National Speak Out was organized by join Assistant Leader James E. Clyburn (SC-06), Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), the Congressional Black Caucus and members of the House Democratic Caucus.Last month, Larson hosted a Call to Action on Gun Violence Prevention with community leaders across Hartford, including Mrs. Beckman. ###
07.14.2016	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and John Lewis (GA-05) announced a renewed commitment to our country’s public service needs. America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act would enhance access to national and community service opportunities, create a more engaged citizenry, and address national priorities in education, infrastructure, healthcare, disaster relief, and poverty. The legislation builds on the work of President John Kennedy, President Bill Clinton, and Senator Ted Kennedy. “At a time of unprecedented challenges for our country, we must again invest in the American people,” said Larson. “It is time for a renewal of the volunteer spirit that has shaped America for generations. Currently, less than 1% of the nation serves in our military, AmeriCorps, and the Peace Corps. At the same time, young Americans are struggling with the crippling burden of their student loans. That’s why John Lewis and I—along with over 120 of our colleagues—devised a simple solution: serve your country, get relief from college debt. When you serve your country for a year of service, our plan would provide two years of in-state college tuition; for two years of service, it would provide four years of in-state college tuition. Service makes us all stronger, and it is past time we return to the spirit of volunteerism that helped create our great nation.”“This bill is a win-win for our country and for so many students whose professional lives begin saddled by debilitating debt,” said Lewis. “The most highly trained Americans – physicians, scientists, and professors—can leave school hundreds of thousands of dollars in debt. They cannot follow their hearts or their conscience. They are forced to avoid areas of society that need their services the most so they can repay their student loans. Their absence on the frontlines of public service is a great loss to our society. This bill allows professionals to serve our country while freeing themselves from the subjugation of overwhelming debt. It transforms hardship and limitation into the reward of volunteer service, by helping to enrich and sustain our society.”In order to meet and exceed our country’s national service goals, the ACTION for National Service Act would: Significantly reduce student loan debt by compensating young people who volunteer for a full term of service with an educational benefit that is double the average in-state college tuition where their college is located. Two full terms would equal four years’ worth of in-state tuition. Make that education benefit free from federal taxation. Advance national and community service as a civic and national priority through the creation of a new federal, Cabinet-level agency. Give all those who wish to serve the opportunity to do so by supporting at least one million federal service positions nationwide. The ACTION for National Service Act currently has 125 cosponsors. For more information, click here. ###
07.08.2016	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) announced that the U.S. Department of Defense is awarding Pratt & Whitney a $1.5 billion contract for the 10th batch of low-rate initial production engines (LRIP 10) used to power the F-35 fighter jet. When combined with previous awards for this lot, the LRIP 10 contract totals $1.95 billion. LRIP 10 will cover 99 total engines, as well as program management, engineering support, production non-recurring efforts, spare modules and spare parts. “Connecticut continues to play a key role in our nation’s security, and the F-35 is a vital component in our defense,” said Larson. “I am thrilled to see Pratt & Whitney will provide another ninety-nine engines for this world-class fighter jet. This is a tremendous win for both our national defense and the countless jobs supported by the aerospace industry right here in Connecticut.” “The exciting announcement that Pratt & Whitney will build the 10th batch of engines to power the world-class F-35 fighter jet is yet another testament to Connecticut’s incredible leadership in the aerospace industry,” said Blumenthal. “Supported by Connecticut’s skilled and talented defense manufacturing workforce, the F-35 program provides truly transformational capability and this much-deserved contract will only further our state’s continued contribution to our country’s national defense.”“Pratt & Whitney is on a roll,” said Murphy. “Between last week’s $1 billion contract announcement from the Air Force and this $1.5 billion contract announcement from the Defense Department, Pratt – and the hundreds of small suppliers throughout Connecticut that they support – are proven, key players in keeping our nation safe. The F135 engine is one of the most reliable and cost-effective in the world, and I applaud the dedicated men and women at Pratt for their continued commitment to excellence in manufacturing.”“The announcement yesterday by the Air Force that Pratt & Whitney will design and build the 10th batch of engines for the F-35 is great news for Connecticut’s defense manufacturing base,” said Courtney. “This news is once again a testament to the exceptional workers at Pratt & Whitney and the talented suppliers across the state that support their work. Defense related manufacturing remains a central part of our region’s economy, and the selection of Pratt &Whitney to continue building the engines powering the most advanced fighter jet in the world will provide a significant boost for years to come.”“This announcement that the U.S. Department of Defense is awarding Pratt & Whitney a $1.5 billion contract is excellent news for Connecticut’s economy and the hardworking men and women in our state,” said DeLauro. “As the home to the nation’s leading defense manufacturers, I am confident that Connecticut will continue to play a central role in providing our armed forces with the necessary equipment to keep America safe. We continue to keep and grow jobs in our state, and I will continue to fight for additional funding in Congress for years to come.” ###
07.08.2016	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on the shootings in Dallas that killed five officers and left several others wounded:“Like many Americans, I was shocked and horrified by the ambush of police officers at a peaceful protest. It seems at times our nation barely begins to process the grief and trauma of one tragedy before another sends us reeling again. This week has already been filled with too many heartbreaks, too much violence. Our communities remain shaken and scarred by the loss of so many innocent lives from the events in Dallas to Baton Rouge and Minnesota. Violence is never the path forward. We must endeavor to end bigotry in all its forms and bring people together.” ###
07.07.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) applauded Community Health Center, Inc. in Middletown on its selection to participate in the White House Precision Medicine Initiative’s (PMI) Cohort Program, a landmark biomedical research effort focused on expanding individualized disease prevention and treatment. Community health centers selected to participate in the program will collect data that can be used to improve our ability to prevent and treat disease based on individual differences in lifestyle, environment, and genetics. The Community Health Center, Inc. will be receiving an estimated $100,000 out of the $55 million awarded nationally.“This vital research program will help biomedical researchers and health care providers develop targeted treatments to help Americans live healthier, longer lives. We congratulate the Community Health Center, Inc. for being on the cutting-edge of health care and for earning a spot in this prestigious national research program. We look forward to the impact their work will have on the search for new treatments and cures,”said Blumenthal, Murphy, DeLauro, and Larson.The Precision Medicine Initiative is new research effort launched by the White House in January 2015 to revolutionize improving health and treating disease. Under this program, the National Institutes of Health will partner with six Federally Qualified Health Centers across the country, including Community Health Center, Inc., to collect a wide range of biological data – including medical, genetic, environmental, and patient-generated data –in order to better understand disease and tailor treatments. Access to this data will help accelerate biomedical discoveries and provide clinicians with new tools, knowledge, and therapies to select which treatments will work best for which patients. ###
07.06.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took the House Floor to continue the call for bipartisan action on gun reforms and to speak in favor of the mental health reforms to be considered this afternoon. Larson and Rep. John Lewis (GA-5) met with Speaker Paul Ryan last night to discuss the urgent need for a vote on two commonsense and widely-supported measures: universal background checks and closing the terrorist loophole. Larson’s full remarks can be seen below: Click above to view Rep. Larson’s full remarks, or visit https://youtu.be/Bht61pu-noc. “I hope, Mr. Speaker, that in the midst of our disagreement, in the midst of our dissent and continued presence on this floor to articulate our deep feelings and commitment to the citizens we’re sworn to serve, that you will permit--that the majority will allow, a vote to take place on this floor—which will demonstrate to this great country that this United States Congress can work.It will start today. It will happen when [the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act] comes to the floor and this side of the aisle joins with you on an important piece of legislation, passed and adopted as it relates to the mental health crisis in this country. As Rep. Diana DeGette said, it should not be considered a substitute, but what it should be considered is a step that we can take together in common cause. It’s what the American people expect from us. We should give them no less. Minimally, we deserve a vote. A vote on No Fly No Buy. A vote on background checks.” The Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016 (H.R. 2646) would fund community-based, evidence-backed approaches to treating mental illness, enhance crisis response systems, and improve suicide prevention strategies. While not a perfect proposal—and not a replacement for comprehensive gun reforms—it is an important step forward for improving services to those suffering from mental illnesses. ###
07.05.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took the House floor to reflect on the historic sit-in by House Democrats and a path forward on gun reforms. Click above to view Rep. Larson’s full remarks, or visit https://youtu.be/1wOooExsvPg. “We come to the floor this afternoon knowing that later this day we have a meeting with the Speaker. It is our goal and our hope that the Speaker will provide an opportunity for the minority party to have its two votes taken up in this Congress. We prevail on the good nature of the Speaker and know him to be an honest and forthright man. Being an institutionalist, we know he’s not just Speaker for the Republican Conference, but he is indeed Speaker of the entire House. …. “We’re asking for a simple vote. After all, that’s what we’re elected to do. We’re elected to represent the people we are sworn to serve and cast votes. It’s been more than three and a half years and we have not even been allowed to cast a vote in the House of Representatives. That is why so many took to this floor in an organic movement, demonstrating that we’ve had enough and that we deserve a vote and that we demand a vote for the countless victims and families and ongoing tragedies. It is not enough—respectful as it is—to stand for a moment of silence. Our Caucus will not be silent anymore.” Larson and Rep. John Lewis are scheduled to have a meeting with Speaker Paul Ryan later this afternoon. ###
07.01.2016	South Windsor, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) honored twenty-six Korean War veterans with the Korean Ambassador for Peace Medal. The Republic of Korea offers this medal to Korean War veterans in gratitude for their service and assistance in preserving Korea’s freedom. “Our veterans have served with distinction and honor,” said Larson. “It is a tremendous privilege to recognize their courage and sacrifices by presenting them with the medals they earned. I want to thank Commander Art Sladyk and Corporal Bruce Daugherty for their help organizing this ceremony. I am so grateful for the opportunity to thank you and all the veterans who attended yesterday for your service to our nation.” Corporal Clifford “Bruce” Daugherty, historian for American Legion Post 133, first approached Commander Art Sladyk about the Korean Ambassador for Peace Medal in the spring of 2016. Commander Sladyk then worked with Larson’s office to secure the medals for Korean War veterans across the community. The veterans recognized were: Paul Barbour Donald Bishop Edward Bolles Clifford “Bruce” Daugherty Daniel DeMartin Walter Dull John Furnezes Andrew Hall Joseph Halloran Robert Hornish Lehman Mann Wallace Mercer Walter Mercer (Deceased, his brother Wallace accepted the medal on his behalf) Robert Moeller Walter Moriarty (Deceased, daughter, Kathy Longo, accepted the medal on his behalf) Richard Ptachinski Henry Rempt Jr. Lionel Soucy (Deceased, son Bill Soucy accepted the medal on his behalf) Brigadier General (ret.) James Throwe (member of Congressman Larson’s Veterans Advisory Council) Sanford Warshavsky Harry White Walter Wilson (Deceased, wife Winnie Wilson accepted the medal on his behalf) Medals were also procured for the following veterans who were unable to attend yesterday’s ceremony: Peter Anthony William Baker Michael Cappa John Piechowski ###
06.29.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin announced on Tuesday that the City of Hartford will receive approximately $800,000 from the U.S. Department of Labor to help young adults in North Hartford’s Promise Zone who are exiting the correctional system find employment, reunite with their families, and reintegrate back into the community. The City of Hartford received priority consideration for the federal grant as a result of North Hartford’s Promise Zone designation. The nearly $1 million grant will build on the city’s Promise Zone initiative and design Reentry Demonstration Projects for young adults ages 18 to 24 that apply evidence-based interventions – such as mentoring, career pathways, and registered apprenticeships – that lead to meaningful employment. "Too often, young men and women return from the justice system without the support they need to find a job and care for themselves and their families. Instead, they face stigmas and barriers that put them at risk of returning to crime and falling into a dangerous, downward spiral,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, and Larson. “This grant will help dozens of young men and women get the second chance they deserve to be successful, law-abiding members of our community. We’re thrilled to see it bring more life-changing opportunities to the people of North Hartford.” “This is great news for Hartford," said Mayor Bronin. "We are working hard to make sure that our Promise Zone designation really pays off, and the STRIVE grant will help us make progress on two of our top priorities: expanding youth employment and offering second chances. Thanks to Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and Congressman Larson, as well as the Obama Administration, for their support. I also want to thank the STRIVE program and other community groups who are helping us build a stronger, safer community through programs like this that provide second-chance employment opportunities.” This grant marks the third award benefiting youth and young offenders that the North Hartford Promise Zone has received in three months. In April 2016, the Promise Zone received a $100,000 grant for the Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program and in May 2016, the Promise Zone received a Summer Jobs and Beyond Grant. ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Reps. John B. Larson and John Lewis led a group of more than 170 of their colleagues in an unprecedented sit-in on the floor of the House of Representatives. Backed by their Senate colleagues and hundreds of Americans inside and outside of the Capitol, they called for votes on commonsense background checks for all gun purchases and preventing potential terrorists from purchasing firearms. The protest disrupted the regular order of the House, sparked a massive protest in support of reforms outside the Capitol, and led to Speaker Paul Ryan adjourning the House until July 5th. “The American people have been crying out for Congress to do something,” said Larson. “If Republican leadership refuses to listen, House Democrats will make sure their message is heard. Today, Republicans shut off our microphones and turned off the cameras, but they could not silence us. Thanks to the power of social media and an American public tired of being kept in the dark, we made sure their pleas and their outrage were heard loud and clear. It was an honor to stand beside the iconic John Lewis as he made history yet again. While I am deeply disappointed that Speaker Ryan chose to adjourn the House -- choosing to do nothing than debate an issue that is killing thousands of Americans -- this is not the end. The people have spoken. We stand united with the vast majority of Americans in saying enough is enough. “Nearly 15 hours ago, we came to the House Floor to demand bipartisan action in response to the epidemic of gun violence and mass shootings in our nation,” said Lewis. “This is not a Democratic or a Republican issue; it is an American one. As legislators we were elected to do everything in our power to respond to concerned constituents’ repeated calls to action. We must come together and do what is right and what is just. Congress must pass meaningful, thoughtful, and mindful legislation. The time to act is now. We can be silent no longer.” ###
06.20.2016	Washington – In the wake of Sen. Chris Murphy’s historic filibuster last week, the Senate failed to pass commonsense amendments authored by Sens. Murphy and Feinstein aimed at preventing gun violence. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“Enough is enough. Congress must finally take a stand against the tyranny of special interests like the NRA and its gang of lobbyists. Americans are dying, but Congress still refuses to act. Sens. Murphy and Blumenthal took a courageous stand last week, and I commend them for bringing Democrats and Republicans together for a vote—but that is not enough. We need real action, not halfhearted appeasements by Republican leadership meant to end a filibuster.“Gun violence is a cancer that Congress refuses to treat. We have witnessed over a thousand mass shootings since Sandy Hook. We mourn friends and neighbors who continue to die in shootings that may not make the national papers, but leave communities in pieces all the same. Congress can no longer look away. At least the Senate has held procedural votes on this issue, but the House remains silent. The House’s inaction is sickening, and I will continue to press for a vote on meaningful reforms to end the violence.” ###
06.16.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on his vote in favor of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2017:“While I strongly disapprove of the Republican Leadership’s continued use of budgetary gimmicks, I ultimately decided that the defense of our nation is too important to go unfunded.“Connecticut has long played a vital role in our nation’s security. President Washington himself nicknamed us the Provisions State in recognition of all we provided during the Revolution. Even today, we are the lynchpin in the defense of our country’s skies and sea. Our state and our tens of thousands of highly-skilled workers are making breakthroughs today that will keep our country secure for the next generation to come. Whether it is the F-35, the Air Force’s Combat Rescue helicopter, the Long Range Strike Bomber, or the submarine programs, we continue to lead the way.“In Connecticut, our country’s defense is not just a talking point. It is our way of life, and it has been for generations. It is with that in mind that I ultimately voted in favor of this budget.”Last week, the State of Connecticut’s Office of Military Affairs released its annual report detailing the strength of Connecticut’s defense industrial base. Nationally, Connecticut ranks fourth in terms of defense dollars directly spent on procurement and R&D. ###
06.16.2016	Washington - Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) commended Sens. Chris Murphy and Richard Blumenthal for their historic filibuster on the Senate floor. The tragedy in Orlando marked the 133rd mass shooting of the year, and the Connecticut delegation continues to push for meaningful reforms to prevent gun violence. The delegation issued the following statement:“We have mourned the loss of far too many innocent lives on account of gun violence, yet Congress remains silent,” said the delegation. “In the words of Sen. Chris Murphy, enough is enough. We echo the sentiments shared by Sens. Murphy and Richard Blumenthal. The vast majority of Americans support common sense reforms like extending background checks to all commercial gun sales and keeping guns out of the hands of individuals on the terror watch list, but Congress keeps silent while men, women, and even children continue to die. We are encouraged by the progress Sen. Murphy’s filibuster made in the Senate, and hopeful that a bipartisan compromise can be reached. We will continue to call on Republican Leadership to do its job and hold a vote here in the House, as well. Until then, Congress remains complicit in every life lost at the barrel of a gun.”Sen. Murphy began his filibuster at 11:21 AM on June 15, 2016 with a pledge to hold the floor for as long as he could stand. His filibuster lasted just under 15 hours, after which it was announced that Republican and Democratic leadership had reached an agreement to vote on a measure to keep guns out of the hands of those on the terrorist watch list. ###
06.15.2016	Washington – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment to the FY 2017 Department of Defense Appropriations Act led by Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT-01), Tom Rooney (R-FL-17), and Chris Smith (R-NJ-04) to assist military families with children on the autism spectrum. Earlier this year, TRICARE—the health insurance program for active duty and retired military personnel and families—drastically cut reimbursement rates for applied behavior analysis (ABA). ABA is a widely recognized treatment for children on the autism spectrum, already covered by most private insurers. Larson and Rooney’s amendment restores previous reimbursement rates, removing a potentially significant barrier to families who need access to ABA.“With everything our servicemembers and their families give to our country, we should not hesitate to provide the care they need in return,” said Larson. “Every military family makes sacrifices, but they should never be asked to sacrifice the health and wellbeing of their children. I was extremely proud to work with Reps. Rooney and Smith on this effort. They have been great champions for our military families.”Larson has won several bipartisan victories to make ABA a permanent benefit in TRICARE. Last month, Larson’s amendment passed as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Today’s victory ensures the measure is funded so military families receive the help they need. ###
06.15.2016	Washington – Yesterday, in honor of Flag Day, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced the “Honoring Hometown Heroes Act” to fix a longstanding oversight in the U.S. Flag Code and allow the Governor of a state or territory to order the American flag to be lowered to half-staff in the event of a public safety officer’s death in the line of duty. Larson released the following statement:“When everyone is running away from a danger, our firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical personnel selflessly put their lives on the line to keep us safe. They deserve honor of a flag flown at half-staff should they make the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty,” said Larson. “Hartford's Deputy Fire Chief Jim McLoughlin—a Windsor resident—first brought this glaring oversight to my attention, and I thank him for his commitment to honoring the brave men and women who serve our communities. I also applaud the Co-Chairs of the Fire Service, Law Enforcement, and EMS Caucuses for everything they have done to raise awareness for this important issue. Our first responders deserve all of the respect and dignity we can offer.”Under current law, a Governor may order the American flag to be lowered to half-staff following the death of a present or former government official or a member of the Armed Forces—not a public safety officer. The Honoring Hometown Heroes Act has been endorsed by the following groups: California Fire Foundation Congressional Fire Services Institute Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association Fraternal Order of Police Illinois Fire Chiefs Association International Association of Fire Fighters International Association of Fire Chiefs Local Assistance State Teams (LAST) in Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, and Virginia. Major County Sheriff’s Association National Fallen Firefighters Foundation National Volunteer Fire Council National Honor Guard Commanders Association National Honor Guard Academy National Fire Academy Alumni Association Ohio Fire Chiefs Association Sergeants Benevolent Association of NYPD Virginia Fire Chiefs Association Original cosponsors include: Reps. Peter King, Bill Pascrell, Dave Reichert, Tim Walz, Joe Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, Elizabeth Esty, James Himes, Raúl Grijalva, Mike Capuano, and Gregory Meeks. ###
06.12.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on the shooting in Orlando, FL:“My heart goes out to the victims and their families in Orlando. In Connecticut especially, we know far too well the heartbreak and shock that accompanies a tragedy like this. Minimally, Congress should take a vote on universal background checks. We owe that to the public. Whether you agree or disagree that all gun purchases should require a background check, it is our responsibility to vote. It is past time for Congress to take its head out of the sand.” ###
06.10.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to speak against the House Republicans’ “sense of Congress” resolution to disapprove of a carbon tax. Click above to view Rep. Larson’s full remarks or visit https://youtu.be/HgXcZqAWClQ. “This body should be about the vitality of ideas—whatever those ideas are,” said Larson. “In a democracy, there ought to be the willingness to express them. Mr. Blumenauer has detailed at length the lack of public hearings. I get it; this is a messaging opportunity. This has no force of law. All this does is say what the sensibilities of Congress are. Now, what does the public think of the sensibilities of Congress? What the public thinks is that we’re all bluster and no solutions.“We know the science behind this. … It’s not just about climate change, it’s about the health of the air we breathe, what we’re poisoning the atmosphere with, what happens with respect to the effects of asthma, and what happens in terms of the people in coal mines with black lung disease. The American people are screaming out for Congress not to have a messaging opportunity, but to offer a solution.”Larson has proposed addressing the threat of climate change by taxing carbon emissions that are warming the planet and passing the revenue back to consumers in the form of a tax rebate. A portion of the revenue would also be dedicated to investing in America’s infrastructure. He also supports retraining initiatives to help workers gain new skills in rapidly growing clean energy sectors. ###
06.10.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of hockey legend, Gordie Howe, who passed away at the age of 88:“This week, we say goodbye to another giant of the sports world, Gordie Howe. Those of us who still reserve a special place in our hearts for the Hartford Whalers remember how incredibly lucky we felt to watch Mr. Hockey himself take the ice with his sons, Mark and Marty, as the pillars of the brand new franchise.“He came to Hartford already a living legend—having skated twenty-nine seasons of professional hockey, including lifting the Stanley Cup four times with the Detroit Red Wings. He and his beloved, late wife Colleen should have been enjoying their golden years, but Gordie could not pass up the opportunity to fulfill a lifelong dream to skate alongside his sons. So they moved to Glastonbury and became Connecticut’s own First Family of Hockey. We remember his endurance, his achievements, and the uncanny combination of brute strength and sheer skill that baffled goalies and left those in his wake battered and bruised. Most of all, we remember his love of the game and his service to his community and the sport.“My thoughts and prayers go out to his family during this sad time, and I join them in mourning the passing of a man that we were fortunate enough—however briefly—to call our own.” ###
06.09.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in support of H.R. 5278, the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act (PROMESA):“After consulting with community leaders in the First District, I voted in favor of the PROMESA Act to provide Puerto Rico with the restructuring authority needed to address its crushing debt crisis,” said Larson. “While it is not the bill I would have written and it certainly has serious flaws, this legislation will provide a lifeline to Puerto Rico in the midst of an economic and humanitarian crisis. I applaud the efforts of members like Reps. Pierluisi, Velázquez, and Serrano—as well as Ranking Member Grijalva and our leadership—as they were able to make major improvements to this bill from its initial draft. “Over the past several months, I have met with Puerto Rican community leaders in my district. They have provided vital insight and guidance on the economic and humanitarian impacts of this crisis, especially on families both on the island and in Connecticut. I agree with their views as well as many of my colleagues in Congress, who have raised objections to some of the provisions contained in the bill. I share their concerns that important health and tax provisions were left out. However, this is a bipartisan compromise. While I wish it could be improved, I do not believe there is any realistic possibility of another bill being brought to the floor. Time has run out, and millions of Americans will continue to suffer if we do not act immediately. The only choice is to vote yes.”Larson has repeatedly called on Congress to stand up for the 3.5 million Americans living in Puerto Rico. On March 8, after meeting with local community leaders, Larson led a Connecticut House delegation letter to Speaker Ryan, urging him to take action prior to Puerto Rico defaulting on any further obligations. On April 20th, after House Republicans again delayed consideration of legislation to provide relief for Puerto Rico, Larson again called on Republican leadership to come to the table and work bipartisanly towards a solution. ###
06.09.2016	Washington – Yesterday evening, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took the floor of the House of Representatives to reflect on the legacy of Muhammad Ali and his own chance meeting with the Champ in East Hartford, CT. Click here to view Rep. Larson’s remarks or visit https://youtu.be/HVEc5SL6eGM “The Sixties will probably forever be remembered as a great crucible for the history of this country, when converging at the same time were the Civil Rights movement, an education movement that was spawned by the launching of Sputnik, the anti-war movement, the women’s movement, the ecological movement. All came about at this tumultuous time. And who was one of the leaders—probably the most recognized face in America beyond perhaps John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King? Muhammad Ali. And he brought so much more because of his conviction.” ###
06.08.2016	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.),U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), U.S. Representative John Larson (CT-1), and U.S. Representative Jim Himes (CT-4) applauded a U.S. Department of Agriculture Food Insecurity Nutrition Incentive (FINI) grant awarded to Wholesome Wave in Bridgeport to increase access to healthy food throughout low-income communities in Hartford, Connecticut. The $500,000 grant, which is matched by additional private investments, will reach consumers where they already shop and help local grocery stores like Bravo Supermarkets, Associated Supermarkets, C-Town, as well as Hartford Food Systems (through the Hartford Regional Market, North End Farmers Market and its Hartford Mobile Market) offer discounts on fresh, locally-grown produce for SNAP beneficiaries. Through this innovative, financially-viable model, the federal FINI grant will help families afford fresh food, strengthen connections between grocery stores and local food supply chains, and drive business to nearby farms. Currently, 40% of children in Hartford live in poverty, and 42% of the city’s residents rely on SNAP benefits to purchase food.“Too many in Hartford’s North End lack the most fundamental of human needs: fresh, healthy food. The energy needed to perform well in school or work comes from the food we eat, and no one in our country should ever be forced to go hungry. I applaud the USDA and Wholesome Wave of Bridgeport for recognizing the needs of Hartford. It is time to ensure affordable access to fresh, local produce in the North End,” said Larson.“Just a few days ago, I was at the Hartford Regional Market talking to local farmers and Hartford community leaders about better connecting local food to city grocery stores. This grant for Wholesome Wave is great opportunity to make that happen,” said Murphy. “It just makes sense—we should help families afford locally-grown, fresh food at the grocery stores they already shop at. We worked so hard to get North Hartford its Promise Zone designation so that the city can hop to the front of the line when it comes to getting federal grants. Today shows why that’s so important.”“Increasing access to fresh, healthy food for the low-income residents of food deserts will help move our communities one step closer to ending food insecurity. The federal funding awarded to Bridgeport’s Wholesome Wave to help provide fresh produce to Hartford’s local grocers is an investment in an incredible partnership that will help ensure the well-being and health of Hartford's residents,” said Blumenthal. “Food deserts correlate very highly with areas of poverty across our country, and a lack of healthy and affordable food options can have a very detrimental effect, especially on children,” said Himes. “With this grant, we will be able to help more families eat nutritiously in Hartford and also support the excellent work that Wholesome Wave is doing right here in Bridgeport, creating innovative ways to bring healthy, local produce into more stores and kitchens.”“Wholesome Wave is thrilled by the innovations that USDA is supporting through the new FINI grants, which are taking the work of increasing affordable access to healthy food to even greater levels of impact, said Michel Nischan, Founder and CEO, Wholesome Wave. “So many SNAP shoppers are working parents with limited time to source healthier food choices. Through the new Farm-to-Grocery model, our partners in VT and CT will be able to expand affordable access to SNAP consumers in a way that allows them to find and purchase more healthy food from a variety of retailers."Wholesome Wave is a non-profit organization based in Bridgeport, Connecticut. Its Farm-to-Grocery Nutrition Incentive program is set to launch in Hartford in August 2016. This project also builds off Wholesome Wave’s existing work in successful food access projects across 40 states. ###
06.07.2016	West Hartford, CT – This Sunday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted a community forum at the Mandell Jewish Community Center to discuss his recent trip to Israel and Jordan. Larson traveled as part of a Congressional delegation to meet with key leaders on Israel’s missile defense systems and discuss how the United States can best support our allies. Upon returning to Connecticut, Larson organized the forum to share his insights with constituents and answer their questions on foreign policy.“Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East, and there is no daylight between our two nations,” said Larson. “My trip allowed me to gain new insights into their defense systems and hear firsthand from Prime Minister Netanyahu and key members of the Knesset on Israel’s security needs. I have attended numerous classified and unclassified security briefings on Israel, but nothing compares to seeing the realities of their daily life with your own eyes. I am always grateful for the opportunity to gain new perspectives, and it means a lot to me to share that knowledge with my constituents.”Larson regularly conducts town hall meetings and community forums on current events, foreign policy, and his work both in Washington and here in Connecticut. ###
06.02.2016	Washington – Yesterday, President Barack Obama addressed the need to strengthen Social Security and enhance benefits. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“No other program in America helps retirees, survivors, and the disabled the way Social Security does. After 2008, many Americans lost their life savings. Millions rely on Social Security for most of their income, but we have not adjusted the program in decades. The average benefit is just $1,300 a month—and even less for women. As the cost of living keeps rising, we need to make sure no one who worked hard their whole life can retire into poverty. I am proud to see President Obama recognizes the need to expand benefits and strengthen the program.“Last year, I introduced a plan that would increase benefits across the board, prevent seniors from retiring into poverty, and ensure Social Security remains strong for generations. Americans have worked hard and earned their benefits. As the President said, they deserve a dignified retirement, and I will keep fighting to ensure they get one.”Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to provide a 2% increase in benefits, fix the cost of living adjustment to accurately reflect the expenses seniors face, provide a tax cut to seniors, and raise the minimum benefit to 25% above the poverty line. Recently his plan won the endorsement of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. ###
05.25.2016	Washington - Today, the U.S. House Committee on Ways and Means met for a full hearing on reducing poverty. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:"Too often in our Committee and in Congress, we are focused on messaging and sound bites – not solutions. Instead of focusing on ideological disagreements, let’s work constructively and think outside the box to look for some of the best practices that states, municipalities, and the private sector have employed that have helped lift people out of poverty. "In Connecticut, we have the Aetna, which has led the way in the corporate community by offering a minimum wage of $16 per hour to employees and reduced out of pocket costs in their employees’ health plans. We should encourage more businesses to follow the Aetna's example and prove that you can both run a successful business and provide for the people you employ."We should also invest in Promise Zones like Hartford's North End where poverty, unemployment, and violence are far too common. I am proud to work with Chairman Hal Rodgers of Kentucky on a bipartisan plan to encourage businesses to locate within and hire residents from our nation's Promise Zones. "We are one of the wealthiest nations in the world, and it is simply unconscionable to allow so many of our friends and neighbors to struggle. We must do more. To that end, I am calling on Chairman Kevin Brady and my colleagues in the Ways and Means Committee to hold hearings in our districts and directly hear from the people and the challenges they face. We cannot simply talk about ending poverty. We must take action."Last year, Larson held a community forum in the North End of Hartford that led to a number of residents from the 06120 zip code traveling to Washington to meet directly with the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, and other agencies. He will continue to call for forums and field hearings that allow the American public to make their voices heard and shape our national policies. ###
05.23.2016	Hartford, CT – Last Friday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Community Renewal Team (CRT) President/CEO Lena Rodriguez, State Sen. John Fonfarra, and State Reps. Brandon McGee and Edwin Vargas for the official opening of the first Early Head Start Center in Hartford. Early Head Start provides no-cost, comprehensive daycare for infants and toddlers, health and developmental screenings, as well as food, formula, and diapers.“Early Head Start gives families the support they need to ensure their children are happy, healthy, and have every chance for future success,” said Larson. “I had the honor of working with Edward Zigler, the father of Head Start, and I saw firsthand how this program can change lives. As a parent and former teacher, I know how crucial it is for children to have safe, stimulating environments from the very beginning. I commend Lena Rodriguez and CRT for their dedication to Connecticut’s children. The Early Head Start Center in Hartford is already providing families who need it most with warm, nurturing childcare.” Rep. Larson plays a game with one of the children at Hartford's Early head Start Center. “We are so proud to have Cong. Larson’s backing in bringing the first Early Head Start contract to Hartford and East Hartford. Our Head Start and Early Head Start programs represent a federal investment of more than $9 million each year into this region,” said Lena Rodriguez. “Thanks to our new Early Head Start program, we are starting infants and toddlers on a lifetime of learning and good health, and supporting parents as they move their families out of poverty.”CRT was awarded $5.4 million in July of 2015 to establish the first Early Head Start Program in Hartford and East Hartford. The program provides comprehensive and affordable child care services to 80 infants and toddlers and 10 pregnant mothers. Daycare can have waitlists in the hundreds and cost more than $500 a week—out of reach for many families. Early Head Start allows families to pursue an education or employment while knowing their children are receiving top quality care. ###
05.20.2016	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“Since its founding in Hartford in 1853, the Aetna has been an integral part of our community. Led by Mark Bertolini—one of the insurance industry’s boldest visionaries—the Aetna is changing the way we view insurance and receive our healthcare. I have been proud to work with Mark and his team on refocusing the health care system on quality patient-centered and coordinated care. And I have been impressed by Mark’s commitment to the Aetna workforce. It was Mark’s leadership that resulted in a $16 an hour minimum wage being established at the company and employees receiving improved health benefits. “The Aetna has been a bedrock employer in our state and the city of Hartford. We should work constructively to ensure that they maintain that presence for years to come. We need more employers who are as committed to and supportive of our workforce. Mark's leadership is precisely what we need here in Connecticut.” ###
05.20.2016	Hartford, CT - Today Rep. John B. Larson released the following statement on the bipartisan compromise to address Puerto Rico's ongoing economic crisis:"As I have been saying for months, Congress has a responsibility to assist the millions of Americans in Puerto Rico as the island continues to wrestle with the burden of its crushing debt crisis. I am encouraged by the agreement negotiated between the White House and House Republican leadership to allow Puerto Rico to restructure its debt."This is not a perfect bill, and I have reservations about the inclusion of extraneous provisions like delaying overtime protections for Puerto Rico's workers. At the same time, we cannot allow the perfect to become the enemy of the good. This is a tough but necessary compromise at a time when Puerto Rico truly needs our help. I hope it will move swiftly through Congress before this crisis worsens further."Larson has repeatedly called on Congress to stand up for the 3.5 million Americans living in Puerto Rico. On March 8, after meeting with local community leaders, he led a Connecticut House delegation letter to Speaker Ryan, urging him to take action prior to Puerto Rico defaulting on any further obligations. On April 20th, after House Republicans again delayed consideration of legislation to provide relief for Puerto Rico, Larson again called on Republican leadership to come to the table and work bipartisanly towards a solution. ###
05.19.2016	Washington— U.S. Representatives John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) today released the following statement regarding actions by House Republican leaders that will allow federal contractors to discriminate against LGBT Americans without the threat of losing contracts.“Today’s abuse of power by House Republican leaders is beyond shameful. Today, we witnessed them circumvent debate, hold open a vote far beyond its allotted time to force Members to switch sides, and cast votes without coming to the front of the House Floor. House Republicans broke Speaker Ryan’s own rules so that discrimination against LGBT Americans could prevail. This is not how Congress should work and the American people deserve better.“The House of Representatives is meant to represent every American, but today this body cast a vote attacking some of our citizens for nothing more than whom they love or who they are. Discrimination has no place in our nation, and generations of Americans have fought against it. We are better than the most extreme elements of the Republican Party that strong-armed its Members into denying LGBT Americans some of their most basic rights.“We stand with LGBT Americans today and every day. The vote cast in the House of Representatives is a step backward in the fight for equality and we will strive to correct this injustice. To the LGBT community in Connecticut and across the country, we stand with you.” ###
05.19.2016	Washington – Yesterday the U.S. House of Representatives passed the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement:“While this bill is far from perfect, the safety of our nation is paramount. This year’s NDAA provides support for military families and makes substantial investments in Connecticut’s defense and manufacturing sectors. The Joint Strike Fighter, Blackhawk Helicopter, and our nation’s submarine programs all saw a significant increase in this budget—allowing our state to expand its role in our nation’s defense and our manufacturers to continue their growth. This is truly a breakthrough budget for manufacturers all across the state of Connecticut. “Though I ultimately voted in favor of it, I remain troubled by some of its provisions.“First, the bill contains a disturbing provision that would allow defense contractors to discriminate against men and women in the LGBT community. The LGBT community has served our country honorably in all branches of the military. Just this week, the Senate confirmed Eric Fanning as the Secretary of the Army—the first openly gay man or woman to hold the position. It is deeply troubling that the House would choose to take a step backwards as the rest of the country moves forward. I voted for an amendment that would have stripped this language from the NDAA, and I will continue to fight for its removal.“I also remain concerned with the bill’s reliance on a budgetary gimmick that hinders our ability to properly plan for and invest in the nation’s defense. We should not allow politics to come before the safety of the American people. It is time for us to come together to put together a proper, responsible budget.” ###
05.18.2016	Washington – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment led by Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) to ensure military families with children on the autism spectrum are able to receive the care they need. Larson previously fought to make sure TRICARE—the health insurance program for active duty and retired military personnel and their dependents—provides appropriate access to applied behavioral analysis (ABA). On April 1st of this year, TRICARE drastically cut the reimbursement rates for ABA providers serving military families. Larson’s amendment restores previous reimbursement rates, removing a potentially significant barrier to families who need access to ABA. “Our military families already sacrifice so much, but they should never have to sacrifice the health of their children. Thanks to today’s bipartisan effort, they won’t have to,” said Larson. “I am proud to lead the effort to help families who already face significant challenges. By reversing these ill-advised cuts, we can ensure they continue to receive access to the care they need. I’d like to thank my colleague Rep. Tom Rooney, who has been such a great partner in these efforts over the years, as well as Reps. Chris Smith, Mike Doyle, and Walter Jones who have also been tremendous champions for these families.” Larson has won several bipartisan victories to make applied behavior analysis a permanent benefit in TRICARE. In 2014, TRICARE launched the TRICARE Comprehensive Autism Care Demonstration—slated to run through the end of 2018 and provide greater access to ABA services for countless families. The proposed rate cuts for providers, which took effect on April 1st of this year, were opposed by many military families groups, as well as Larson and other Members of Congress who wrote to TRICARE in March. ###
05.16.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Sen. Richard Blumenthal, Sen. Chris Murphy, and Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that Hartford’s Promise Zone YES! project was selected by the White House and the Department of Labor (DOL) as one of eleven recipients of Summer Jobs and Beyond grants. The Promise Zone YES! project is dedicated to supporting youth and development services for 275 young people in Hartford through partnerships with the Capital Workforce Partners, City of Hartford, Hartford Public Schools, and Connecticut State College & Universities.“For so many of our most vulnerable young people, a first job provides more than pocketchange. It can mean learning valuable skills and fostering connections to help them build a foundation for a brighter future,” said Blumenthal, Murphy, and Larson. “We are thrilled that the White House and DOL selected the Promise Zone YES! project for this grant. Hundreds of children and young people in Hartford will now have the support they need to land their first job.”The $21 million in Summer Jobs and Beyond grants will benefit 11 communities across the nation. Last year, Hartford’s North End was designated a Promise Zone, and given priority consideration for federal grant programs. ###
05.13.2016	Washington – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016. While the bipartisan package creates new grant programs and authorizes new studies to try to address the nation’s ongoing opioid and heroin epidemic, it fails to provide the necessary financial resources to ensure everyone can get the help they need. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“Too many Americans are suffering in this epidemic. I commend Speaker Ryan for addressing opioid and heroin addiction, but this proposal does little to increase access to recovery programs. No one seeking help for their addiction should ever be turned away due to lack of resources. That is why I support Rep. Joe Courtney’s plan to commit the necessary funding to support treatment and prevention programs. The measure passed today is a good first step, but when it comes to our nation’s health, there should be no half measures.”Larson has previously called for additional funding to address the opioid epidemic. In March, he traveled to Atlanta for the 5th Annual National Rx Drug Abuse & Heroin Summit to lobby for emergency resources. He remains committed to ensuring our communities have the resources they need to treat and prevent opioid addiction. ###
05.12.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) testified before the Tax Policy Subcommittee of the Ways and Means Committee about his proposals to support volunteer firefighters and first responders, encourage job creation in Promise Zones, and ensure companies are able to donate all of their profits to charity through foundations like Connecticut-based Newman’s Own.“It is our responsibility to find the common ground to do the common good, and we have the power to do so today,” said Larson. “My colleagues and I worked across the aisle on proposals to help our volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel, to bring good jobs into struggling Promise Zones like Hartford’s North End, and to ensure companies that donate all of their proceeds to charity can continue their good work. These are not partisan issues. Volunteer first responders are on the frontlines keeping all of us safe. They save our communities billions by giving freely of their services, but are taxed when towns try to give them even small rewards. That simply is not right.“Promise Zones should be more than a promise. Residents face tremendous challenges from homelessness to poverty to unemployment and even violence. We can do so much good if we encourage businesses to locate within or hire employees from the Zone.“Companies that devote one hundred percent of their profits to charities already do great work. Just look at everything Newman’s Own Foundation has done in Connecticut and across the country. It would just take a small, technical fix to make sure they can keep doing their good work. All of these proposals are bipartisan. All of them would pass if they were brought before the Committee or to the floor for a vote. I commend Chairman Boustany for holding this hearing, and I strongly encourage him to take up these bills before the year is out.”Larson introduced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act with Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) in June of 2015. He also worked with Reichert to introduce the Philanthropic Enterprise Act. Earlier this year, Larson held a press conference in Hartford’s North End to discuss the Promise Zone Job Creation Act, which he wrote with Chairman Hal Rogers (KY-05). ###
05.11.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT) released the following statement on the passage of the Social Impact Partnership Bill in the House Committee on Ways & Means: “This legislation combines the best that the private sector, academic and non-profit communities have to offer, along with significant government support,” said Larson. “We are in desperate need of strategies to address addiction and the growing opioid epidemic. In Connecticut we are implementing a similar “Pay for Success” pilot program to help families coping with substance abuse issues. This innovative idea not only helps individuals struggling with addiction, but also works with families to ensure lasting recovery, and focuses specifically on improving outcomes for children. Its implementation in my state is largely due to robust support from Governor Dannel Malloy, White House Drug Policy Director Michael Botticelli, and White House Director of Social Innovation Dave Wilkinson. “I would like to thank Representatives Todd Young (R-IN) and John Delaney (D-MD) for introducing this legislation here today. While not a panacea, this proposes an outside-the-box approach to dealing with some of the intractable social issues facing our communities.” ###
05.10.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT) and Congressman Pat Tiberi (R-OH) introduced the Research & Experimentation Advances Competitiveness at Home (REACH) Act, which would increase the Research & Development tax incentive to encourage companies to increase their R&D spending in the United States. This legislation would raise the Alternative Simplified Credit from 14 percent to 20 percent. “This bill builds upon the significant bipartisan accomplishment at the end of last year, when we made the R&D tax credit permanent,” said Larson. “I was proud to work with Chairman Brady on that effort and today we are taking it a step further: by increasing the R&D ASC tax credit to 20 percent, we are encouraging innovation and investment both in Connecticut and across the nation; this will create more jobs and grow our economy. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with my colleague and friend, Rep. Tiberi.” “By increasing the R&D ASC tax credit, we will be making a strong step to boost job growth here at home,” said Congressman Tiberi. “This bipartisan, pro-growth solution will incentivize more businesses to invest in our economy, while also ensuring our tax code protects America’s ability to lead and compete on the world stage. I would like to thank my colleague, Congressman Larson, for his help and efforts to advance this important legislation.” ###
05.06.2016	East Hartford, CT – In recognition of National Small Business Week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with Connecticut entrepreneurs and small business startups in East Hartford yesterday. Larson kicked off the day with a visit to the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) to learn about the technology startups in their business incubator program. CCAT provides entrepreneurs with state-of-the-art incubator space and access to the latest technology both at its headquarters and Advanced Manufacturing Center. Later, he toured RSL Fiber Systems, which specializes in the development of fiber optics to improve workplace safety and productivity. RSL was the first company to supply fiber optic lighting solutions to the U.S. Navy and remains its sole source provider of this innovative technology.“Small businesses drive our economy,” said Larson. “They are the job creators and innovators that keep America on the cutting edge in a global market. Right here in Connecticut, entrepreneurs are developing new technology to keep us safer and make our lives easier. I am extremely proud to seeso many employers like Giovanni Tomasi of RSL Fiber Systems are benefiting from the permanent extension of the R&D Tax Credit that Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady and I authored and fought for—allowing them to hire even more people. I also want to commend Elliot Ginsberg of CCAT for providing valuable support for startups to help more big ideas get off the ground.”“CCAT was pleased to host Congressman Larson and give him an opportunity to meet with the entrepreneurs of our Technology Incubator, which offers them essential business resources and a collaborative setting for reaching out to our extensive network of strategic partners,” said Elliot Ginsberg, CCAT president and CEO. “Through this visit, the Congressman was able to talk directly with small business leaders about their issues and concerns.”“Congressman Larson was instrumental in helping RSL Fiber Systems secure funding to develop the most advanced fiber optic lighting for the US Navy, grow our business by exporting to the Italian Navy, and expand into the commercial sector,” said Giovanni Tomasi, RSL Fiber Systems CEO. “The permanent extension of the R&D tax credit is another initiative that will benefit us as we continue to grow.” National Small Business Week has been recognized every year since 1963. The R&D Tax Credit passed in December of last year. ###
04.25.2016	HARTFORD – Today, amid National Reentry Week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin announced that the Housing Authority of the City of Hartford will receive a $100,000 federal grant through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program to help young people involved in the juvenile justice system find employment, secure affordable housing, and reintegrate back into the community. The $100,000 grant with $25,000 matching contribution for the Housing Authority received priority consideration as a result of North Hartford’s Promise Zone designation, and will build on the city’s Promise Zone initiative. Connecticut is one of just 13 states nationwide to receive the funding. “Each day, young men and women return from the justice system without the resources they need to find a job or a place to live. They face stigmas and barriers that put them at risk of returning to crime and falling into a dangerous, downward spiral,” said Larson, Murphy, and Blumenthal. “It’s time that we reorient the way in which we deal with kids in the court system, and actually give them the help they need to be successful, law-abiding members of our community. Programs like this help bring life-changing opportunities to young people across the city, helping them get back on track.”“Helping young people who’ve made mistakes and paid for those mistakes get a real second chance is a critical part of making our city safer and stronger,” said Mayor Bronin. “The Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program grant will help us give young people the support they need to rebuild their lives and reintegrate into our community. This is an example of smart, far-sighted policies that recognize that giving people a second chance is far better for our communities than permanent punishment. I¹m grateful to Senator Blumenthal, Senator Murphy, Congressman Larson, and all of our partners at the federal level for their support and advocacy for Hartford."“We are grateful for this grant. The funds will assist in helping justice-involved youth in the City’s North Hartford Promise Zone to overcome the barriers they face when pursuing higher education, gainful employment and decent and safe housing,” said Annette Sanderson, Executive Director of the Housing Authority of the City of Hartford. Nearly 55,000 individuals under age 21 are currently in juvenile justice facilities across the nation. Having a juvenile or a criminal record can severely limit an individual’s ability to seek higher education, find good employment, or secure affordable housing, creating unnecessary barriers to economic opportunity and productivity. To help alleviate consequences associated with a juvenile or criminal record, the Juvenile Reentry Assistance Program assists young people up to age 24 residing in public housing, or who would be residing in public housing but for their record, by: Expunging, Sealing, and/or Correcting Juvenile or Adult Records; as permitted by State law; Assisting targeted youth in mitigating/preventing collateral consequences such as, reinstating revoked or suspended drivers’ licenses; Counseling regarding legal rights and obligations in searching for employment; Providing guidance for readmission to school; and Creating or modifying child support orders and other family law services, and more. ###
04.25.2016	East Hartford, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), co-chair of the Joint Strike Fighter Caucus, visited Pratt & Whitney to view the model F-35 and F135 engine displayed throughout the weekend. Larson helped ensure that Pratt & Whitney remains the sole supplier of engines for the F-35, providing significant defense contracts and thousands of reliable jobs across Connecticut's manufacturing ecosystem.“The F-35 is an incredible feat of technology that not only sustains countless jobs across Connecticut, but also serves to keep our country safer,”said Larson. “Pratt & Whitney is at the heart of our state's manufacturing ecosystem, but the production of the F-35 benefits countless smaller manufacturers and suppliers too. I am proud that just this December, Congress ordered 68 additional F-35s, securing good, stable jobs across the First District. My thanks to Pratt & Whitney for putting this incredible aircraft on display to the community, and keeping the eagle flying across Connecticut.” ###
04.20.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was recognized for receiving a perfect score on last years Voting Record from NETWORK: A National Catholic Social Justice Lobby. NETWORK recognizes lawmakers who fight for social and economic equality. They are best known for their Nuns on the Bus campaign to urge leaders in Washington to end the gridlock and make real progress for millions of Americans. Larson released the following statement: "I am deeply humbled to earn this award, and I know with the continued advocacy of groups like NETWORK and its fantastic leader, Sister Simone Campbell, we can keep moving forward to find the common ground for the common good. "Too many Americans still face injustice and inequality, and NETWORK has been on the forefront in those fights. Whether its working to make sure tax credits that are critical for working families are made permanent, or taking a stand against intolerance and fearmongering by supporting Syrian refugees displaced by devastating violence, NETWORK has been on the front lines of fighting for justice. I have been proud to stand with them in those efforts." More about NETWORKs Voting Record can be found here. ###
04.20.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called again for Speaker Paul Ryan and Republican Leadership to act now to prevent Puerto Rico from defaulting on its bond payments. On May 1st, Puerto Rico’s next major payment comes due. Larson issued the following statement urging swift, bipartisan action:“Millions of Americans continue to suffer in Puerto Rico. Congress has the power and responsibility to provide relief, however time is quickly running out,” said Larson. “Speaker Ryan pledged to address Puerto Rico’s ongoing crisis, and I applauded him for making that commitment. With the May 1st deadline looming, Republican Leadership has a choice to make: either work with Democrats on a bipartisan solution—as we have pledged to do—or craft a bill that appeals only to the far right fringes without providing a viable resolution for the island. I urge them to choose the former, as Democrats remain willing to work with them on an actual solution. We cannot afford further delay while Americans face devastating losses.“Just this weekend, I spoke with our Puerto Rican community in Hartford. They feel the pain of this crisis keenly. Many have seen their families and loved ones struggle while Congress stalls. We need action. Democrats stand ready and willing to help Speaker Ryan draft a plan that will let Puerto Rico restructure its debt and get back on its feet.”In March, Larson issued a letter to Speaker Ryan urging action on Puerto Rico’s economic crisis. He has also met with leaders across the First District and Connecticut to discuss the impact the ongoing tumult has on communities across the state. ###
04.19.2016	Washington – Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) today applauded the Senate’s Approval of the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act.The legislation, which was adopted by a 97-0 vote as an amendment to the Energy Policy Modernization Act, will create a U.S. National Park Service protective designation for the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook that runs through ten Connecticut towns. With protective designation as a “wild and scenic river,” the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook could receive as much as $100,000 in funding from the federal government to assist volunteers and officials with conservation efforts.The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act is sponsored in the Senate by Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Sen. Chris Murphy (D-CT). Esty and Larson sponsor the bill in the House.“The Farmington River is a vital resource for communities across Connecticut,” Larson said. “I am incredibly pleased to see the Senate act to protect this waterway with the ‘wild and scenic’ designation. With Earth Day fast approaching, it is important for all of us to do what we can to preserve our natural resources. This is terrific news, and a big step towards keeping our environment clean for our kids and grandkids.”“The Lower Farmington River is an economic and environmental treasure for families across Connecticut, and today’s action in the Senate brought us one step closer to preserving it for future generations,” Esty said. “Families from across Connecticut and around the world travel to the Farmington River to enjoy the fishing, boating, and other recreational opportunities it offers. The House should follow the Senate’s lead and pass this bill, so that Connecticut can continue to take advantage of one of the country’s greatest waterways for many years to come.”The Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act is the product of a bipartisan, community-driven process that began a decade ago, when 10 Connecticut towns – Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, Canton, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor – came together to protect the Lower Farmington River. The upper portion of the river was given protected status in 1994. The Energy Policy Modernization Act, which now includes the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act, is expected to pass the Senate tomorrow. It will need to pass both the Senate and the House to become law. ###
04.15.2016	Washington – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called for the Ways and Means Committee to focus on improving healthcare for millions of Americans rather than voting once again to repeal the Affordable Care Act.“I hope as a Committee, we can get beyond this notion of—for the sixty-third time—we’re going to repeal the Affordable Care Act,” Larson told the Committee. “It’s been six years. The Act isn’t going to be repealed, and—as many on our side have said—it needs to be improved. … Because of the advance of technology and science and innovation and all the things entrepreneurialism can bring, you would think we could do better because we are Americans. Click above to hear Larson’s full remarks, or visit: https://youtu.be/q_YjaLqGgxc “This nonsense, this ongoing attempt to repeal Obamacare for the sixty-third times drives people crazy. They’re concerned about their health and their well-being, and want to make sure that [Obamacare] is there for them. And frankly, Mr. Chairman, I hope that we can quickly get to a position where the capable people on this Committee can sit down with one another and come up with solutions.” ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation and gun violence prevention leaders joined with Team 26 today to call for action to prevent gun violence in the United States.Team 26, named for the 20 children and six educators killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School on December 14, 2012, rode 400 miles from Newtown, CT to the U.S. Capitol to ask Congress to pass commonsense legislation to help keep communities safe from gun violence. “Too many lives continue to be lost due to gun violence,” Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) said.“We in Connecticut still feel the pain of the 20 children and 6 educators who lost their lives at Sandy Hook. That tragedy should have spurred Congress to put partisanship aside and make meaningful reforms—instead, the House has yet to even hold a vote. As long as Congress is silent, it remains complicit in the ongoing violence throughout this country. I thank Monte Frank and the other members of Team 26 for continuing to call for action. We will never forget what happened in Newtown, and we will keep fighting to protect Americans from further violence.”“The men and women of Team 26 put their lives on hold and biked hundreds of miles through the rain in the hope that Congress will finally do something to stem the tide of gun violence in this country,” said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5), whose district includes Newtown. “Since the tragedy in Sandy Hook, about 100,000 Americans have lost their lives to gun violence, including more than 500 children. And in that time, the House has not held a single vote on gun safety legislation. Today, Team 26 is sending a loud and clear message: we cannot wait any longer for Congress to do its job. I proudly stand with these brave men and women to call on my colleagues to finally take action and help prevent more innocent lives from being lost.”“Bike riders who have braved snow and cold, rough roads and tough traffic, show us that courage and strength can conquer political headwinds all the way to the White House—and love wins,” Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) said. “This ride reminds us that Congress is increasingly complicit in the preeminent public health crisis of our time—no less an epidemic than any infectious disease, killing 30,000 Americans every year. Congress must act now. I was proud to welcome the riders to Washington and the White House as their journey came to an end—even as the journey to achieve commonsense measures to reduce gun violence is far from over. It will be a marathon, not a sprint. But together, we will continue pushing forward.”“For four years now, Team 26 has biked 400 miles from Newtown to Washington to honor the lives of the 26 precious students and teachers who were killed at Sandy Hook Elementary, and the more than 90,000 men, women, and children who have lost their lives to senseless gun violence since,” Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT) said. “Team 26 delivered a strong message to Congress today, and I will not rest until Team 26 – and the 90% of Americans whose voice they represent – has been heard.”“It is an honor to stand with Team 26 today to call attention to the unacceptable toll of gun violence in across our country,” Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2) said. “It is almost unthinkable that more than three years after the tragedy in Newton, that Congress has yet to pass a single gun safety measure to protect our children, and our communities. I want to commend Team 26 for all of their efforts to advocate for common sense gun reforms during their annual ride to Washington. I also want to thank Rep. Elizabeth Esty for her continued advocacy and leadership on gun violence prevention. ““Thank you to Team 26 for devoting your time and energy to call for stronger gun violence prevention laws and for pushing Congress to act. To see you complete the 300 mile ride honoring those we lost for the fourth year in a row is truly touching,” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) said. “Today and every day, we must continue to honor with action and fight for stronger gun violence prevention laws. Executive action by the President alone is inadequate, and I call on my colleagues in Congress to immediately take action and pass commonsense legislation to address the gun violence epidemic.”“Thank you to Team 26 and the families and community that supports them,” Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) said. “Their ride is a reminder that we have not forgotten, and we will never forget the tragic effects that gun violence has had on our children and neighborhoods. We will show the same perseverance they have shown in their 400 mile ride to fight until this epidemic of violence is ended. We have the power to make sure the horror of Sandy Hook is never repeated if we commit to the fight for the long haul.”“With open arms, the District of Columbia greets Team 26,” Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) said. “After journeying from Newtown, CT to the nation’s capital for the fourth time since we lost 26 children and teachers, Team 26’s sacrifice in honor of the memories of those killed by gun violence also makes us understand that the only way to rid our country of gun violence is to show the same perseverance as Team 26. The people of the District of Columbia particularly appreciate the Sandy Hook riders as we fight repeated attempts by Members of Congress to overturn all of D.C.’s gun safety laws.”“Many thanks to those who rode 400 miles from Newtown to the Capitol – for the fourth year in a row – to raise awareness about the urgent need for Congress to act to reduce gun violence,” said Congressman Mike Thompson (CA-05), Chairman of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Since the tragedy at Sandy Hook, the House Majority has refused to take even one vote on commonsense legislation to help keep Americans safe from gun violence. But the members of Team 26 aren’t giving up, and neither am I. My colleagues and I are ready to fight for as long as it takes to pass legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands.”“Team 26’s ride reminds us that there are common-sense steps we can take today to make our communities safer,” said Congresswoman Nita Lowey (NY-17), Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee and longtime supporter of gun violence prevention. “With 4% of gun sales conducted without a background check, guns are too easily falling into the wrong hands. We should listen to the 91% of Americans who support universal background checks for gun purchasers. We should listen to the 71% of NRA members who support prohibiting people on terror watch lists from purchasing guns. Thank you to Team 26 for riding yet again to honor not just the families in Sandy Hook and their loved ones, but for all victims of gun violence across the country.”“I salute Team26 for helping to keep the issue of gun violence at the forefront. I believe that Congress must pass bipartisan, comprehensive, and evidence-based legislation to deal with the horrific epidemic of gun violence in our country. Tragedies like Newtown, Aurora, and Charleston have underscored the need to address the issue at every level of government,” said Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. ###
04.06.2016	Manchester, CT – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the winner of the First Congressional District Art Competition at the Dehn Gallery at MCC on Main. The competition is open to high school students in Connecticut’s First District. Out of 43 entries, Mya Concepcion of Conard High School in West Hartford took home the top prize. As this year’s winner, Concepcion’s work will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and she will receive a trip down to Washington for the installation as well as a $3,000 per year scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design or Tennessee Wesleyan College. Mya Concepcion’s winning entry. “Congratulations to Myaon winning this year’s Congressional Art Competition and thank you to everyone who submitted pieces—you are all very talented” said Larson. “I always look forward to seeing the creative and passionate work our students create. This competition gives young artists the chance to make their voices heard through their art. We must encourage our youth to continue to create work that helps transcend the boundaries of society and speak to our communities as a whole.”The judges also awarded six honorable mentions to: Andre Fischer of Northwest Region 7 Brianna Lamari of Rocky Hill High School Erin Robles of Conard High School Olivia Sanford of East Granby Rachel Casertano of St. Paul Catholic High School Kady Allen of Wethersfield High School The Congressional Art Competition was created in 1982 to allow members of Congress the opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talents of the youth in their communities. Since its creation, over 650,000 students nationwide have participated in the competition. ###
04.05.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin and AmeriCorps and SeniorCorps Volunteers for the Mayor and County Day of Recognition for National Service. Nearly 700 AmeriCorps and SeniorCorps volunteers currently serve the city of Hartford, and Larson will soon introduce legislation to expand service opportunities to even more Americans. “Only one percent of the nation currently serves in the military, AmeriCorps, VISTA, Teach for America, and countless other service organizations,” said Larson. “A democracy cannot long survive if we defer to the few what is the responsibility of us all. Our cities and communities are strengthened every time we come together—whether to tutor struggling students, combat homelessness, or help our neighbors find jobs. Service makes a real, powerful difference in so many lives, and I applaud our local volunteers for all they have done in Hartford and across Connecticut.“Because service is vital to our communities, I will soon be introducing the ACTION for National Service Act to support at least one million federal service positions each year. AmeriCorps alone has received over half a million applications—but because of constraints to their resources, they can only accept a small fraction. Young Americans want to improve their communities and their country. We should be rewarding their impulse to serve, not turning them away. My plan would ensure young people who serve full time receive relief from their student loans. If Congress can bail out Wall Street, surely we can do the same for our students.”America’s Call to Improve Opportunities Now (ACTION) for National Service Act will advance national and community service by elevating the Corporation of National & Community Service to a new Cabinet-level agency and increase opportunities for service across the country. ###
04.05.2016	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited Connecticut’s Kid Governor, Elena Tipton, at Dr. Thomas S. O’Connell School. Tipton was elected on her Campaign for Kindness platform, and was inaugurated at the Old State House in January. Larson presented her with a Congressional citation and a letter from President Barack Obama in recognition of her work to end bullying.“I think we can all learn something from Elena,” said Larson. “Her Campaign for Kindness has encouraged students across the state to treat one another with the respect and compassion everyone deserves. I am proud to recognize all she has done to speak out against bullying, and I wish her luck during the rest of what I expect will be a very successful term.” ###
04.05.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited Associated Supermarkets in Hartford’s North End for a press conference announcing his bill, the Promise Zone Job Creation Act. Larson was joined by Mayor Luke Bronin, State Rep. Brandon McGee, State Rep. Matt Ritter, State Rep. Ed Vargas, andLou Sterling, owner of the newly opened Associated Supermarkets. The Promise Zone Job Creation Act will create new tax credits to encourage employers like Sterling to hire residents of federally-designated Promise Zones and invest in the Zone. “The North End and other Promise Zones face real problems, but they are also home to employers like Lou Sterling who want to help their communities rebound,” said Larson. “While the Promise Zone designation assures priority consideration for federal funding and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers, I know we can do more. My bill would give Mr. Sterling and other employers a tax credit for investing in the Zone and its residents. I applaud Mr. Sterling for his efforts to revitalize the community, and I thank Mayor Luke Bronin, the entire Hartford delegation, and all of our local leaders for their strong support of Hartford’s Promise Zone.”“In the North Hartford Promise Zone, we’re tackling the challenge of creating economic opportunity in a neighborhood that faces Great Depression level unemployment,” said Mayor Bronin. “That’s why measures like the Promise Zone Job Creation Act, which will incentivize companies and property owners to invest in the future of this long neglected neighborhood, are so important. I want to thank Rep. John Larson for his leadership on this issue and urge Congress to pass this critical piece of legislation.”More information on the Promise Zone Job Creation Act can be found here. ###
03.28.2016	Atlanta, GA – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) traveled to Atlanta to attend the 5th Annual National Rx Drug Abuse & Heroin Summit. With opioid and heroin addiction on the rise across the country and in Connecticut, the Summit will feature discussions on community responses to heroin use, alternatives to incarceration, and use of prescription drugs among youth. Larson will also speak directly with federal agencies and national partners—including the National Institute of Health (NIH), Center for Disease Control (CDC), and the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy—about the need for emergency funding in Connecticut to address the opioid and heroin epidemic.“Heroin and opioid addiction take a devastating toll on families and communities,” said Larson. “No one seeking help for their addiction should ever be turned away, but right now there are very real barriers to treatment. Connecticut needs help now to ensure our communities have the resources they need to help those struggling with this disease.”In February, Larson signed on to a proposal authored by Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) to allocate an additional $600 million in emergency funding to combat the heroin and opioid epidemic. Larson is also a cosponsor of the Comprehensive Addiction Recovery Act (CARA), which would develop the best methods for healthcare providers to prescribe pain medications, assist law enforcement with training in the use of naloxone, improve current treatment centers, and provide funds to build additional facilities for those seeking treatment for their addiction—especially veterans and pregnant women.Click here for more information on the actions Larson has taken to address the heroin and opioid epidemic, or visit: https://larson.house.gov/index.php/uncategorised/2094-fighting-the-heroin-and-opioid-epidemic. ###
03.24.2016	South Windsor, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited two homeowners in South Windsor who are struggling with cracking and crumbling foundations. Dr. Saud Anwar of the South Windsor Town Council and Commissioner Jonathan Harris of the Department of Consumer Protection joined Larson on the visit.“Too many homeowners have been devastated financially and emotionally by this crisis,” said Larson. “You should feel safe in your own home, but instead too many families have to worry about their house crumbling beneath their feet. I commend Councilman Saud Anwar for proposing and establishing an advisory committee in South Windsor to work with the state and federal government on finding solutions for homeowners. This is a complex problem, but I am committed to working with Rep. Joe Courtney, Dr. Anwar, Gov. Malloy, and other state and community leaders to find a path forward for Connecticut homeowners.”“This disaster will require communities, towns, the state, and our federal government to work together with the insurance and banking industries to help the victims,” said Councilman Anwar.“The Department of Consumer Protection is moving their investigation into crumbling concrete foundations forward quickly, and deliberately. We’ve had hundreds conversations with Connecticut residents since the Governor called for this investigation in July of last year, and understand the urgency of this issue,” said Commissioner Harris. “That’s why we’re doing everything we can to make sure this investigation is as thorough as possible, so that there is tangible information available that may help homeowners get the support they need.”Foundation cracks begin to appear 15 to 20 years after the concrete was initially poured. The cost to replace damaged foundations can range from $150,000 to $200,000. More information can be found at the Department of Consumer Protection’s page here, or by visiting https://www.ct.gov/dcp/cwp/view.asp?a=1625&Q=569328. ###
03.24.2016	Hartford – Last night, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with the presidents of local community colleges to discuss legislation he is drafting that would provide tax credits to employers who collaborate with local schools to develop curricula that meet industry needs and then hire students upon graduation. The bill is based on a proposal from President Barack Obama’s FY2017 budget proposal, and would foster partnerships between local businesses and community colleges in order to create a more skilled workforce and a pipeline to meaningful employment.“There are jobs available right now in growth industries such as health services, advanced manufacturing, and numerous other fields,” said Larson. “Connecticut community colleges already do a tremendous job of preparing students for the workforce, especially through their Advanced Manufacturing Centers. By partnering with a wide-range of businesses to help shape the curriculum and offer career employment, we can ensure community college graduates have the training and tools they need to excel in a job market that keeps growing.” Larson’s proposal would create a new $5,000 tax credit to be claimed by employers after they partner with community colleges for each graduate of the program they employ for a minimum of one year. Larson sat down with local college presidents to answer questions and gather their input on how to make this proposal most effective. He will continue to gather feedback from stakeholders as the bill is drafted. ###
03.23.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT), House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) introduced The Promise Zone Job Creation Act to create new tax credits to incentivize the hiring of residents of federally-designated Promise Zones. It would also encourage new investments to bring property, equipment, or software to these hard-hit communities.“Many Promise Zone’s—like Hartford’s North End—face tremendous challenges battling poverty, homelessness, unemployment, and even violence,” said Larson. “The Promise Zone designation assures priority consideration for federal funding and AmeriCorps VISTA volunteers, but I firmly believe we can do more. This bill will encourage businesses to locate within and hire residents from the Zone. I commend Chairman Rogers for his partnership as well as Mayor Luke Bronin, Thea Montanez, and local leaders like our ‘06120 Delegation’ for their dedication to improving the lives of North End residents. Every American deserves the dignity that comes from having a job, and this bill will help make that a reality for men and women who are most in need. ““Coal country has suffered devastating and economically debilitating impacts from the downturn in the coal industry. In Kentucky’s coalfields, we’ve lost nearly 11,000 coal mining jobs since 2009, making the effort to revitalize and rebuild a difficult, uphill battle,” said Rogers. “I am proud of the efforts that local leaders have already undertaken to leverage the Promise Zone designation in Eastern Kentucky, and with this legislation, we can take those efforts to the next level. I am proud to partner with this bipartisan group of members in introducing this bill, which will encourage new businesses to establish roots in the coalfields where they will find some of hardest working, dedicated workforces in the country.”“I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this bipartisan bill that will bring more jobs and economic investment to designated Promise Zones,” said Cohen. “Memphis is unfortunately ranked in the top ten of the most economically distressed cities in the United States and has the second highest unemployment rate of metropolitan areas with more than a million people. So being from Memphis, I realize the importance of the Promise Zone program to reduce concentrated poverty and increase the economic vitality of Memphis and similar cities that could be designated Promise Zone areas.”“I am grateful to be an original co-sponsor of the Promise Zone Job Creation Act of 2016 to incentivize businesses that create jobs in designated Promise Zones,” Wilson said. “I’ve seen first-hand the benefits the Promise Zone designation has had on South Carolina’s Second Congressional District. The Lowcountry SC Promise Zone, which includes Barnwell County, has created over 250 quality jobs since being designated a Promise Zone in 2015. The investment and resources have provided opportunities for the community to grow over the last year, and I look forward to seeing the positive impact of the Promise Zone in the future.” The Promise Zone Job Creation Act was originally introduced by Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) in the 113th Congress. This bipartisan, bicameral effort will establish employment tax credits and bonus depreciation to enable businesses and residents to realize more immediate economic benefits. The Promise Zone Job Creation Act will: Create employment tax credits: This legislation would create an employment credit to be provided to businesses that employ Promise Zone residents. Credit would apply to the first $15,000 of qualifying zone employee wages. The credit rate would be 20% for zone residents who are employed within the zone and 10% for zone residents employed outside of the zone. Establish Bonus depreciation: Qualified property placed in service within the zone would be eligible for additional first-year depreciation of 100% of the adjusted basis of the property. This includes tangible property with a recovery period of 20 years or less, water utility property, certain computer software, and qualified leasehold improvement property. The property must be placed in service within the zone while the zone designation is in effect. More information on Promise Zones can be found at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) or by visiting https://www.hudexchange.info/programs/promise-zones/promise-zones-overview/. ###
03.22.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) served as the ranking member of the Ways and Means Committee Hearing on Social Security and Public Servants, where he reviewed testimony regarding the Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act (H.R. 711). This bill would adjust the Windfall Elimination Provision (WEP), which currently affects over 1.5 million people who see their Social Security benefits cut because they have worked in both the public and private sectors.“In Connecticut alone, more than 75,000 people—mostly teachers—work both within and outside the Social Security system, and risk seeing the benefits they earned cut because of the Windfall Elimination Provision,” said Larson. “That is unfair to our public servants, especially in light of the 2008 recession, where too many workers lost everything they had saved for retirement. Social Security is a lifeline for millions, and our public servants should not be excluded.“The Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act is not a perfect bill, and I will continue to support a full repeal of the WEP. However, doing nothing while our teachers, firefighters, and public servants suffer is not an option. Making progress on any front requires compromise, and I am proud to join Chairman Kevin Brady, Rep. Richard Neal, and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle as we work to move this bill through the Ways and Means Committee and to the floor.”The Equal Treatment of Public Servants Act would establish a new Public Service Formula that would take into account a worker’s entire earnings history rather than subject them to an arbitrary reduction—as is done under the current WEP. Larson continues to support fully repealing the WEP, and is a cosponsor of the Social Security Fairness Act (H.R. 973) which would both repeal WEP and the Government Pension Offset, ensuring workers can receive all the benefits they have earned. ###
03.22.2016	Washington – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously approved legislation clarifying the National Park Service’s authority to establish the Coltsville National Park headquarters in the historic brownstones next to the East Armory. The National Park Service determined that the brownstones, which date back to the 1850’s, provide the best location for historic preservation and visitor access for the location of the park headquarters. The Park Service recently issued a technical clarification that would allow for this to occur and this legislation would simply codify that decision. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“Coltsville is an iconic part of Hartford’s legacy as well as its future,” said Larson. “The Park’s continued growth and evolution will allow us to reclaim the banks of the historic Connecticut River and attract more people to the city of Hartford. Coltsville has brought together countless community leaders, cultural organizations, governmental agencies, non-profits, and businesses who have worked tirelessly to bring this dream to fruition. I look forward to the continued success of Coltsville and the surrounding community.” Click the image above to hear Rep. Larson’s remarks on the House floor in favor of passing the Coltsville clarification or visit: https://youtu.be/x9hv2SZV3Wc ###
03.22.2016	Washington –Today, explosions rocked an airport terminal and subway in Brussels, leaving at least three dozen killed and over one hundred more injured. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement:“My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, first responders, and their families after this devastating attack. Violence that targets innocent civilians is the ultimate act of cowardice. The U.S. stands with our European allies and victims of terrorist attacks wherever they may be, and I echo the President and my colleagues in Congress when I say we stand ready to assist however we can.” ###
03.17.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on his vote against H. Res. 639, which will allow Speaker Paul Ryan (WI-01) to file a brief with the Supreme Court in the case of United States v. Texas on behalf of the entire House of Representatives.“There is no question our immigration system is in need of repair, which is why I have long supported comprehensive immigration reform--even as Republicans continuously block it from being brought to the floor,” said Larson. “In the absence of Republicans taking legislative action, President Obama took critical steps under his legal authority to keep families from being torn apart. Unfortunately, instead of trying to work constructively to move immigration reform forward, Republicans have decided to try to block the President’s commonsense actions through the courts. As the Supreme Court will hear a case challenging the President’s actions, I joined over 100 Democrats on an amicus brief supporting the President’s actions. The resolution brought to the floor today would have the entire House of Representatives support an amicus brief that says just the opposite. Essentially, Speaker Ryan is asking for the authority to speak on behalf of Members who do not agree with the anti-immigrant sentiments we keep hearing from some on the other side. That is not right. The only reason we are here today is because Congress has refused to put immigration reform on the floor. If we truly wish to make our voices heard, we should do so with our votes.”Larson signed on to an alternative brief led by Democratic members, which can be found here. ###
03.16.2016	Washington – Last night, the Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) awarded the first Congressional Patriot Awards to Reps. Sam Johnson (TX-03) and John Lewis (GA-05) in a ceremony at the Library of Congress.“This marks the beginning of a new bipartisan tradition in the spirit of the credo engraved about the Speaker’s chair: that we may in our day and generation perform something worthy to be remembered,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). “Reps. Sam Johnson and John Lewis have done much to be remembered by. Both are the epitome of heroism and service. One a Republican, one a Democrat. One conservative, one progressive. They are living reminders that patriotism knows no party, and the medals bestowed last night will forever bear their names.” Rep. Larson speaks at the Congressional Patriot Award Ceremony. The BPC’s biennial Congressional Patriotism Award recognizes two members of Congress—one Democrat and one Republican—who place the interests of the nation above self in a manner that brings honor to the institution. As an honorary Congressional Co-Chair, Larson looks forward to the BPC’s continued efforts to promote bipartisanship.“I congratulate BPC President Jason Grumet and Acting Librarian of Congress David Mao for a successful evening,” said Larson. “It was my deep honor to join Rep. Tom Cole, Sen. John McCain, and Ambassador Andrew Young in presenting these historic awards to two of our most esteemed friends and colleagues. It has been my privilege to work with both Reps. Johnson and Lewis on the Ways and Means Committee, and I am truly proud to help mark their great achievements.” ###
03.16.2016	Washington – Today, President Barack Obama announced Merrick Garland as his candidate to replace the late Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “Judge Garland has served our country honorably both on the bench and as a federal prosecutor,” said Larson. “Congress has already demonstrated clear respect for his record and credentials during Judge Garland’s 1997 confirmation. It is now time for the Senate to uphold its responsibilities and hold a vote. If Congress fails to confirm a nominee, it is likely that the Supreme Court will go two terms—and more than a year—with a vacancy. That is unacceptable. The American public deserve a government that functions in regular order and a justice system that operates the way the Constitution intended. As an institutionalist himself, I can hardly imagine Justice Scalia would appreciate this obstructionism from his fellow conservatives.” Judge Garland serves as the Chief Judge on the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, the same court where the late Judge Scalia once served. He was confirmed 76-23 in 1997. ###
03.15.2016	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) today applauded the U.S Department of Health and Human Services National Center for Injury Prevention and Control’s $1,340,996 grant to the Connecticut Department of Public Health for strengthening prescription drug overdose prevention efforts in Connecticut. “Today’s funding is an important down payment— a small yet critical step toward combatting this growing epidemic,” said the delegation. “Prevention and educational efforts are essential to stopping accidental prescription drug overdoses. The Connecticut Department of Public Health has been a leader in addressing prescription drug abuse by working directly with prescribers and launching a public awareness and prevention campaign across the state. We will continue to fight to ensure that Connecticut receives the funding and support it needs to end this crisis." With this funding, the Connecticut Department of Public Health, in consultation with the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection, will partner with the Yale School of Medicine to achieve its overall goal and focus its efforts in enhancing and maximizing Connecticut’s prescription drug monitoring program. In addition, CTDPH, in collaboration with at least three local health departments situated in Hartford, New Haven and Fairfield counties, will implement community health system interventions aimed at building capacity necessary to prevent prescription drug overdose and abuse. ###
03.11.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced $94 million in new funding to combat heroin and opioid addiction across the country, including Community Health Center in Middletown, Community Health Services in Hartford, and First Choice Health Centers in East Hartford. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“I commend Secretary Burwell and HHS for recognizing the gravity of the heroin and opioid epidemic facing Connecticut,” said Larson. “We must make sure that no one who wants help recovering from their addiction is turned away due to lack of resources. Community Health Center Inc., Community Health Services, and First Choice Health Centers all provide top quality, compassionate care to the men and women they help. Our community health providers are on the frontlines of this crisis, and I thank them for their commitment to making sure no one else loses their life or a loved one to addiction.”Last month, Larson spoke on the Ways and Means Committee to HHS Secretary Sylvia Burwell about the escalating heroin and opioid epidemic. The grants announced today provide the following funding: COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTER, INCORPORATED, MIDDLETOWN – $379,167 COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES, INCORPORATED, HARTFORD – $325,000 FIRST CHOICE HEALTH CENTERS, INC., EAST HARTFORD – $406,250 ###
03.11.2016	East Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) toured United Technologies Research Center to view some of the current advances they are making in advanced material analysis, virtual reality, and countless other exciting fields. UTRC is one of many companies across Connecticut and the country that benefits from the permanent extension of the R&D tax credit, passed last year as part of the PATH Act. Larson and Chairman Kevin Brady were lead co-sponsors of the credit. Rep. Larson inspects new equipment at UTRC. "UTRC is on the cutting edge of advanced manufacturing, computing, and countless other fields," said Larson. "They continue to make advances that both ensure the United States remains the global leader in innovation and provides good, stable jobs right here in Connecticut. I am proud we permanently extended the R&D tax credit last year, which allows UTRC and numerous other businesses the stability they need to push forward with new research."The PATH Act passed last year on December 17, 2015. ###
03.08.2016	Hartford – On Friday, March 4th, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued a letter to Speaker Paul Ryan urging swift action to prevent Puerto Rico from defaulting on its bond payments.“Millions of Americans continue to suffer in the wake of Puerto Rico’s ongoing crisis,” said Larson. “Congress has the power to provide relief by fixing an oversight in the law and allowing Puerto Rico to restructure its debt. Every other state and municipality has the power to do the same. I commend my friends and colleagues across New England for joining me in this effort. We stand ready and willing to work with Speaker Ryan to put an end to this crisis before more Americans lose everything.”Rep. Larson authored this letter following a meeting with leaders from Connecticut’s Puerto Rican community on February 17th, including Julio Mendoza (Executive Director, Spanish American Merchant Association), Yanil Terón (Executive Director, Center for Latino Progress) Ingrid Alvarez-DiMarzo (State Director, Hispanic Federation), Werner Oyanadel (Executive Director, Latino and Puerto Rican Affairs Commission), Julio Casiano (Deputy District Director, Connecticut SBA District Office), and Candida Flores (Executive Director, Family Life Education). “I commend Congressman Larson, Speaker Ryan and our CT congressional delegation for their leadership and commitment finding a workable solution to help the island of Puerto Rico deal with their economic crisis,” said Werner Oyanadel, LPRAC Executive Director. “Time is of essence on this problem and much can be done to avoid human tragedy. Puerto Rico is not looking for a hand-out but rather they need a hand-up to get out of this mess and I am sure Speaker Ryan and his congressional colleagues will find the best approach to seek repayment in an equitable way that will help get the Puerto Rican economy back on track. This is important to all Connecticut residents for many reasons – one of which is that our state has more Puerto Rican residents per capita than any other state, so failure to act will impact all of us here more than anywhere else in the country.” “We thank Congressman Larson for urging Congress to meet Speaker Ryan’s March 31st deadline for a bill that comprehensively and humanely addresses Puerto Rico's fiscal crisis” said Jose Calderon, President of the Hispanic Federation. “Congressman Larson and his co-signees are right: unless we act now to provide Puerto Rico broad debt restructuring authority, millions of American citizens will face devastating economic losses. We look forward to working with the New England congressional delegation in supporting legislation that stabilizes the island and protects the livelihoods of the 3.5 million American citizens living in Puerto Rico.”The letter was co-signed by Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Richard Neal (MA-01), David Cicilline (RI-01), and Peter Welch (VT-01). Less than 20 legislative days remain before Puerto Rico’s next major bond payment comes due on May 1st. Speaker Ryan has previously pledged to take action before March 31st to address the ongoing debt crisis.The full text of the letter can be found below.Dear Speaker Ryan,We commend you for your efforts along with the other members of the Republican leadership and the relevant Committee chairmen to draft legislation by March 31st to address the economic crisis facing Puerto Rico, which is home to 3.5 million American citizens. As you know, the financial problems that the island has been experiencing over the past few years continue to spiral downward and without Congressional action, conditions will worsen. With more than 5 million Puerto Ricans living in the mainland United States, many of whom have strong ties to the island, the impact of this crisis extends beyond just Puerto Rico. With less than 20 legislative days remaining before Puerto Rico’s next large bond payment comes due on May 1st, it is imperative not only that the Congress act swiftly, but also ensures that whatever legislation comes before us adequately addresses both immediate concerns and underlying issues that have contributed to the current crisis.The most pressing priority is ensuring that Puerto Rico does not default on its bond payments. We all support allowing Puerto Rico the ability to utilize Chapter 9 bankruptcy law to restructure its debt as the best way forward to address the crisis in the short-term. Rep. Pedro Pierluisi and Senator Blumenthal have sponsored legislation that would accomplish this. However, given that the bill has not received floor consideration in either Chamber, we recognize that the legislation that you propose may differ from this approach. We believe that it is imperative that any bill proposed allows Puerto Rico to restructure its debt and that if the proposal creates a temporary oversight board, that it respects the voices of Puerto Rican citizens and the roles of their democratically elected leaders.In addition, we believe that it is essential that any legislative proposal dealing with the economic crisis in Puerto Rico contain language that tackles some of the longstanding problems with federal programs that have had a detrimental impact on the U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico and their economy. These issues include disparate treatment under the Medicaid and Medicare programs, as well as under the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) and Child Tax Credit (CTC) programs. If your proposal addresses these matters, it could significantly assist in ensuring stability and recovery over the long term in Puerto Rico.We appreciate that you have tasked your Conference with coming up with a bill by the end of March and stand ready to work with you to assist in that effort. We cannot stress enough how important it is that the proposal be drafted in a manner that provides the immediate relief in terms of restructuring authority, but also that meets head-on some of the systemic challenges in federal programs that must be addressed. Recognizing the small number of legislative days before the next large bond payment is due, it is our hope that a bill can be considered on the floor prior to our adjournment for recess in March. If this crisis is not addressed properly and expeditiously, we risk further devastation to the Puerto Rican people and the Puerto Rican economy as well as higher costs for U.S. taxpayers. We appreciate your consideration and look forward to working with you on these important matters moving forward.Sincerely,Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01)Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03)Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04) Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) Rep. Richard Neal (MA-01) Rep. David Cicilline (RI-01) Rep.Peter Welch (VT-01) ###
03.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Congressman John Larson (D-1), Congressman Joe Courtney (D-2), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-3), Congressman Jim Himes (D-4), and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (D-5) joined U.S. Senator Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Congressman John K. Delaney (Md.-6) and Congressman Ben Luján (N.M.-3) in filing resolutions in the House and Senate affirming the establishment of a new national clean energy goal. The “50x30 Resolutions” establish a goal of more than 50 percent of America’s electricity production coming from clean and carbon-free electricity sources by 2030 and call for the enactment of new legislation to achieve this goal. In a show of significant support for this initiative, the “50x30 Resolutions” are cosponsored by 30 Senators and 100 House Members.“We need to move fast to combat climate change and prevent catastrophe, and a commitment to generate more than 50% of America’s electricity from clean energy by 2030 is a great step in that direction,” said the delegation. “We know firsthand the devastation of climate change, with superstorms like Hurricane Sandy, but our state also has the opportunity to continue to be a leader in this clean energy innovation economy. Transitioning to a clean, carbon-free environment will create good-paying local jobs in our state, improve our public health, protect our national security, and put Connecticut and the county at the forefront of our energy future.”The full text of the resolution is available here. ###
02.25.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the House Floor to acknowledge the Bipartisan Policy Center’s recent establishment of the Congressional Patriot Award. This award will be bestowed to Reps. Sam Johnson (TX-03) and John Lewis (GA-05) in light of their courage and heroism. “I commend the Bipartisan Policy Center and my honorary, co-chairman Tom Cole for their recognition of perhaps two of the finest Members of Congress,” said Larson. “It is a privilege to serve both with Rep. Johnson and Rep. Lewis, both of whom have demonstrated tremendous bravery and sacrifice throughout their lives. Many know of the beating and suffering Rep. Lewis endured when he made that historic trip across the Edmund Pettus bridge in the name of equality and civil rights. Fewer know of Rep. Johnson’s courage and resilience as a POW during the Vietnam War, where he too faced abuse at the hands of his captors and unthinkable stretches in solitary confinement. These two Congressman are living testimonies to American heroism, and they show that patriotism transcends political party.” “I am very pleased that the Bipartisan Policy Center has chosen to acknowledge the heroic contributions of current and former members of the U.S. House of Representatives with the Congressional Patriot Award,” said Rep. Tom Cole (OK-04). For such a distinct honor, it is indeed fitting that the first recipients will be Reps. Sam Johnson and John Lewis. Before they were elected to serve in the House, both of these men showed unmistakable dedication to preserving, protecting and improving our country. As a former POW and combat veteran from the Vietnam War, Sam Johnson was tested and tried through unimaginable suffering that few will ever experience. An advocate for human rights and civil liberties, John Lewis similarly suffered along the Edmund Pettus Bridge while advancing a dream to change the direction of society. Without question, their sincerity, selflessness and patriotism makes them individuals worthy of the highest admiration.” Click above to watch Rep. Larson’s remarks on the House Floor or visit https://youtu.be/5RmXfslKfe0. The Congressional Patriot Award will be presented to Reps. Johnson and Lewis at a March 15th ceremony at the Library of Congress. On Feb. 4th, Rep. Larson and Rep. Cole introduced H. Res. 604 recognizing the establishment of the Congressional Patriot Award and congratulating Sam Johnson and John Lewis for their patriotism and selfless service to the country. The resolution currently has 245 cosponsors. ###
02.23.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding the Senate’s decision not to schedule a hearing for President Barack Obama’s Supreme Court nominee.“By refusing to so much as hold a hearing, the Senate is shirking its duty to the American public,” said Larson. “The President has not even named his nominee, but already Senate Republicans are refusing to do their job and ensure the integrity of our justice system. As a lifelong institutionalist who believed in the profundity of the Constitution above all else, I can only imagine that Justice Scalia himself would be disappointed to see its precedents and rules being ignored in favor of scoring political points. The President has said he will do the job he was elected to do; it’s time for the Senate to do theirs.”If Congress fails to confirm a nominee, the Supreme Court will go an unprecedented two terms—and well over a year—with a vacancy. The Court has never maintained a vacant seat for more than 237 days, and 340 days remain before the next President takes office. ###
02.17.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with community leaders within the First District to discuss the impact of Puerto Rico’s ongoing debt crisis. “Connecticut has the greatest concentration of Puerto Ricans of any state in the nation, and keenly feels the impact of this problem,” said Larson. “I commend Speaker Ryan for committing to a firm deadline to address this crisis, but time is running out. I am proud to join my friends and colleagues Rep. Pedro Pierluisi and Sen. Richard Blumenthal in supporting the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act of 2015 (HR 870). Puerto Rico must be allowed to handle this issue just as any other state or municipality would in this situation. If we keep kicking the can down the road, it will cost Connecticut and the United States billions and inflict untold pain and suffering on Puerto Ricans—especially children and veterans.” Rep. Larson talks with community leaders at his District Office. The leaders Larson met with included: Julio Mendoza, Executive Director, Spanish American Merchant Association (SAMA) Yanil Terón, Executive Director, Center for Latino Progress Ingrid Alvarez-DiMarzo, State Director, Hispanic Federation Werner Oyanadel, Executive Director, Latino and Puerto Rican Affairs Commission (LPRAC) Julio Casiano, Deputy District Director, Connecticut SBA District Office Candida Flores, Executive Director, Family Life Education Larson is a cosponsor on the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act of 2015 (HR 870). ###
02.12.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) endorsed his legislation to expand and strengthen Social Security. The Social Security 2100 Act would increase benefits for all current and future beneficiaries, institute an improved cost-of-living adjustment, cut taxes for millions of beneficiaries, and ensure Social Security remains solvent through the end of the century. “No one fights for the working families of this country like the Congressional Progressive Caucus, which is why I am honored to have their support of this important legislation to protect and expand Social Security,” said Larson. “Americans are facing a retirement crisis, and we must expand Social Security to solve this problem. Social Security is the most effective anti-poverty program, keeping millions of Americans afloat. This legislation takes commonsense steps to keep Social Security strong for generations to come while improving the vital benefits that Americans have earned through years of hard work. We must make sure no American who has worked hard all their life retires into poverty, and the Social Security 2100 Act provides the fix we need.” “Every American pays into our Social Security system with the expectation that this earned benefit will be there for them when it comes time to retire,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (AZ-03). “We must strengthen this vital lifeline and expand benefits to ensure Social Security is meeting the needs of seniors in the 21st century. I commend John on his leadership protecting not only our seniors, but every other American who will rely on Social Security when they reach retirement as well.” “The American people are tired of endless cuts to the benefits they’ve earned” said Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05). “They’re tired of being asked to make sacrifices while corporate profits are soaring. I’m proud to stand with Mr. Larson as he introduces the Social Security 2100 Act, which will protect and expand Social Security for this generation, and for generations to come.” The Social Security 2100 Act will ensure the solvency of the trust fund for the next 75 years and beyond according to the independent analysis of the Chief Actuary of the Social Security Administration (SSA). Additionally, it would improve the cost of living adjustment (COLA) by adopting a formula that better reflects the costs seniors incur, increase the minimum retirement benefit to 25% above the poverty line to protect low-income workers, and ensure millionaires and billionaires pay into the program at the same rate as other Americans. ###
02.11.2016	Washington – At today’s Ways and Means Committee Hearing, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke with Secretary Jack Lew of the U.S. Department of the Treasury about the need for Congress to take swift action to strengthen Social Security. Larson previously introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to cut taxes, increase benefits, safeguard against inflation, and ensure Social Security remains solvent through the end of the century. “Social Security is a lifeline for millions of Americans,” said Larson. “It often gets called an entitlement program, but it is actually an insurance program paid for by hardworking Americans throughout their lives. It is long past time for the Ways and Means Committee to hold a hearing on how we can protect retirees—many of whom rely solely on Social Security for their income. My proposal would not only increase benefits, but cut taxes for millions of Americans. Surely those of us on both sides of the aisle can find the common ground to do what is right for the people.” Click above to watch Rep. Larson’s remarks or visit https://youtu.be/6XflPdMEBgQ The Social Security 2100 Act would ensure the solvency of the trust fund for the next 75 years and beyond according to the independent analysis of the Chief Actuary of the Social Security Administration (SSA). It would also improve the cost of living adjustment (COLA) by adopting a formula that better reflects the costs seniors face, increase the minimum retirement benefits to prevent workers from retiring into poverty, and ensure millionaires and billionaires pay into the fund at the same rate as everyone else. ###
02.11.2016	Washington – On Wednesday, February 10, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke with Secretary Sylvia Mathews Burwell of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services about the growing heroin and opioid epidemic in Connecticut and across the country. “We in the New England delegation know too well the need for immediate, emergency funding to stop the tragic loss of lives across the region,” said Larson. “Those on the frontlines of this epidemic need our support to make sure anyone who wants help fighting their addiction can receive it. We are in the throes of an epidemic. Families are being torn apart, and we must take every step to ensure no one else loses their life or a loved one to the horrors of addiction.” Click to see Rep. Larson’s remarks, or visit https://youtu.be/xXFq92ddDFo Larson previously joined Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) in calling for emergency funding to improve existing treatment and prevention programs. Additionally, Larson will host a screening of HBO Documentary Films Heroin: Cape Cod USA on Monday, February 15th from 5:00 – 7:30 PM at Goodwin College in East Hartford. Following the film, Larson will join community leaders, healthcare professionals, and first responders to discuss how we can combat this growing epidemic ###
02.03.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding proposals from President Barack Obama and Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02) to allocate an additional $1.1 billion and $600 million respectively to combat the growing heroin and opioid epidemic: “Connecticut is already seeing the ravages of heroin and opioid abuse firsthand. In less than a week, New London witnessed nineteen overdoses, while Hartford police seized 1,300 bags of heroin on Sunday. Opioid and heroin abuse take a devastating toll on too many families in Connecticut and across the nation. We must do more to ensure men and women wrestling with addiction get the help they need. “To that end, I commend President Obama for recognizing the toll this epidemic has taken on our communities. His proposal to expand access to treatment programs will allow countless more Americans to enter recovery. Everyone who wants treatment should have access to it. “I am also proud to join my friend and colleague, Rep. Joe Courtney, by signing on to his proposal to improve existing treatment and prevention programs. We can and should take every step to make sure no one else loses their life or a loved one to this growing epidemic.” ###
01.26.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Barack Obama’s proposals to expand access to workplace retirement accounts and empower working Americans to keep track of their savings: “Millions of Americans work incredibly hard throughout their lives, but too many still retire into poverty. We saw firsthand in 2008 as countless Americans lost everything they had set aside, and we cannot allow that to happen again. I applaud President Obama’s efforts to strengthen retirement programs for working Americans, building on his administration’s launch of the myRA program last year. These simple, fee-free savings plans make retirement security possible for millions of workers. “Today’s proposals will do even more to help Americans plan for the future. Encouraging small businesses to join together to create pooled 401(k)s will allow more workers access to critical saving tools while keeping costs down for employers. Right now, a third of workers do not have access to a retirement savings plan—especially those at small businesses. I was also pleased to see the administration’s budget includes a provision my friend and colleague Rep. Richard Neal has introduced for many years, automatically enrolling workers without access to a workplace retirement plan in an IRA. Through commonsense provisions like these, we can help countless Americans plan and save for their future. “Even as we strengthen workplace retirement programs, we cannot forget that Social Security remains the bedrock of the American retirement system. When it comes to preventing Americans from retiring into poverty, we must strengthen Social Security. I have a plan to enhance benefits, cut taxes, and raise the minimum benefit to 25% above the poverty line rather than below it. The recession of 2008 proved without a doubt that safe-guarding Americans’ retirement security is both our responsibility and the right thing to do.” Last year, Rep. Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to ensure Social Security remains solvent through the end of the century, increases benefits to all beneficiaries, and protects lower-income workers from retiring into poverty. ###
01.25.2016	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke before history and religion classes at Manchester's East Catholic High School to discuss Pope Francis's historic address to Congress and other developments in Washington. Sister Margaret "Peggy" Evans, a guidance counselor at ECHS, was one of Larson's guests during the Pope's travels in Washington. "Witnessing this Pope's humanity and humility in person was a once-in-a-lifetime experience made all the more powerful because I shared it with Sister Peggy," said Larson. "I was thrilled to bring this historic moment back to the students of East Catholic High School. There is a prevailing myth that today's young Americans are disinterested in government and civic engagement, but I find just the opposite to be true. They are passionate, thoughtful, and curious, and it was a privilege to speak with them today. I want to thank East Catholic High School, Sister Peggy, and Principal Jason Hartling for their tremendous work in shaping and nurturing the young minds of our community." “We are thankful that Congressmen Larson shared with our students the tremendous impact that the Holy Father, Pope Francis had during the visit to Washington,” said Principal Jason Hartling. “The Congressmen engaged our students in a wonderful dialogue that we were able to use as a springboard for rich discussions in our religion and social studies classes. Our community continues to pray that the example and words of Pope Francis resonate with all people and brings positive change to our nation and the world.” ###
01.22.2016	Hartfoird, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Connecticut Department of Housing (DOH) Commissioner Evonne M. Klein, and members of the state's congressional delegation today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved a $54 million grant the state applied for that will be used to improve shoreline infrastructure and increase resiliency to combat future weather events. "Over the last few years in Connecticut, we have transformed the way we respond to emergencies, and we are now more prepared to respond to an extreme weather event than ever before. We are no doubt continuing to be proactive in modernizing our infrastructure so that our state - and especially our shoreline - is even more protected for the next severe weather event," Governor Malloy said. "Global warming is real - the science is real. And the more we all acknowledge that reality, the more prepared we can be for extreme weather. I want to thank the Obama Administration, particularly Secretary Julián Castro and his team at HUD, the state Department of Housing, and our Congressional delegation for our united efforts to see that we can help communities better prepare for future storms." Connecticut was one of a few states that received grants from the National Disaster Resiliency Competition (NDRC), which was a competitive funding round offered by HUD to ensure states are prepared for future weather events. The grant will be administered by DOH, who has been the primary state agency charged with administering the Community Development Block Grant - Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) program following the devastation of Superstorm Sandy. "Under Governor Malloy's leadership we have made a swift and smart recovery from Super Storm Sandy," Commissioner Klein said. "This funding will build on that success, ensuring that Connecticut is better prepared for future storms. Making our state more resilient will safeguard residents and protect our shoreline from future storm damage." "Bridgeport's South End has sustained repeated, severe flooding, damaging property, endangering lives and causing extended power outages - an experience shared by Connecticut's coastal communities all along the Long Island Sound," Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "This substantial, competitive federal award will do more than just repair past damage - it will help ensure the South End will thrive for decades to come while also funding comprehensive planning efforts to proactively protect and preserve all of our coastal communities." "Today is a transformational day for our coastline communities," Senator Chris Murphy said. "Just days after HUD Secretary Julián Castro visited Connecticut, I'm pleased to announce that we have secured $54 million to rebuild more resilient communities along the Long Island Sound. I first invited Secretary Castro to visit the state during an Appropriations Committee hearing last year, when I personally pressed him for additional Sandy relief funds. Hurricane Sandy ravaged our coast and flooded our homes, and with the risks of climate change only getting worse, we can no longer rely on band aid fixes. We need forward-looking improvements and bold investments. Today's federal grant, which was made possible by the hard work and close collaboration of local, state, and federal leaders, gets us closer to that goal." "Though it has been over three years since Super Storm Sandy devastated the region, Connecticut still faces considerable recovery efforts," Congressman John Larson said. "I commend Governor Malloy and HUD for their continued commitment to ensuring Connecticut emerges stronger and more resilient than ever. I am proud to support our neighbors in Bridgeport and across the coastline in their efforts to guard against future flooding and storm damage." "Through this grant, we will address vulnerabilities to our infrastructure that can make such a difference in instances of extreme weather, which is becoming all too common due to climate change," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro said. "Events like Hurricane Sandy threaten the safety, health, and economy of our people and our state. I am pleased that we have been awarded this grant, so that we can reduce these risks, and factor the social and economic needs of local communities into our disaster planning moving forward." "As we prepare today for another major storm to descend on the Eastern Seaboard, we remember the long-term damage that Sandy caused to our communities," Congressman Jim Himes said. "Today's $54 million grant will help Bridgeport, Fairfield County, and other communities prepare for future disasters, which will save money and lives down the road. The federal government has been a strong partner in helping us rebuild from the devastation of previous storms, and today we are continuing and expanding the efforts to make our communities more resilient and less vulnerable to the next disaster. Climate change is causing these extreme weather events to be more common, so there's not a moment to waste in our preparations." "This grant announcement is great news for Connecticut and will go a long way to helping us prepare for future natural disasters," Congressman Joe Courtney said. "With our state being located on the edge of the eastern seaboard with over 300 miles of coastline, we are particularly vulnerable to a range of extreme weather events such as hurricanes, coastal flooding, and sea level rise. I'm very glad that HUD was able to recognize the risks faced by our state and has committed to helping us prepare for the worst, even as we hope for the best." "Make no mistake, the National Disaster Resilience Competition was hard fought, and I am thrilled that the Department of Housing and Urban Develop is awarding $54 million for Connecticut to improve our infrastructure," Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty said. "Having survived Super Storm Sandy and other recent disasters, Connecticut understands resiliency. This federal funding will improve our ability to withstand the increasing challenges of climate change and recover quickly from natural disasters." The State of Connecticut is focused on reconnecting and protecting economically-isolated coastal neighborhoods through investments in green streets that will protect against flooding as well as strengthen existing ties to transportation nodes. This HUD funding will support a pilot project in Bridgeport that is part of the state's broader Connecticut Connections Coastal Resilience Plan. Funds will establish the South End Resilience Network, reconnecting the South End community with the downtown via a raised greenway that, combined with a stormwater treatment park, will also provide protection from coastal flooding. In addition, the funding will support the state's efforts to bring these same approaches to other at-risk communities along the I-95 corridor by contributing to planning efforts, including economic and climate modeling. Funding for the following projects has been approved under the federal grant: Bridgeport - South End East Resilience Network - $34,368,759: Elevation of University Avenue and construction of a greenway earthen berm to create a new baseline for the establishment of an urban coastal community that will be protected against future storms and sea level rise, removing the risk to reinvestment and inviting new development to strengthen this extension of downtown Bridgeport. Bridgeport - Community Design Center - $1,000,000: Construction and rehabilitation of an anchor community center in the South End to serve as a design center and central location for future recovery efforts. Bridgeport - South End District Energy Infrastructure Study - $350,000: Analysis of opportunities to utilize micro-grids, cogeneration systems, and alternative energy sources to limit disruptions in energy supply due to emergencies. New Haven/Fairfield County - Floodplain Design Guidelines - $330,000: Development of new guidelines to incorporate cutting edge flood mitigation technologies New Haven/Fairfield County - Connecticut Connections Coastal Resilience Plan - $18,228,600: Extend this existing planning effort to more communities in New Haven and Fairfield Counties with the goal of providing accessible downscaled inland and coastal flooding information at the watershed scale for inland and coastal municipalities. ###
01.13.2016	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Barack Obama's final State of the Union address: “Tonight, President Obama spoke to the best in all of us. This may be his final year in office, but our work as a nation is not done—and I share his hope for the future. “The President is right when he says our politics have become deeply divisive and overrun by special interests. But I know firsthand what we can accomplish when we put those differences aside to do what’s right. I had the honor of sharing this evening with James Tillman, who spent 18 years in prison for a crime he did not commit. Since 2008, I have worked with Republican and American hero Rep. Sam Johnson on a bill to prevent those who are wrongfully convicted from being taxed on the compensation they receive. That bill passed because both sides of the aisle recognized that doing what is right is neither Democratic nor Republican; it is American. "In fact, the pursuit of justice and equality for all is the most quintessential American trait there is. It is why I, like the President, believe we can find the common ground to accomplish real change. The President is right when he says Social Security needs to be strengthened, that students deserve access to affordable education, that everyone deserves the dignity of a job, and that hate speech and discrimination have no place in our country. Having visited the Berlin Mosque on New Year’s Day, I know as the President does that our Muslim neighbors make our communities stronger. I have plans to address all the challenges we face, and I will keep reaching across the aisle to work with colleagues who want to put people before partisanship. “I also commend the President for rekindling our spirit of innovation. We in the First District know the call to create firsthand. From fuel cells and solar energy to the best aircraft engines in the world, we know our district—like the nation—is full of men and women with the vision and knowledge to make incredible things. I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure Americans have every opportunity to succeed in these developing fields. “As the President said, the state of our union is strong. We have overcome incredible challenges. Even as we face new threats in the form of ISIL and other terrorist groups, I know we will emerge victorious and come out stronger. I am proud to continue working to ensure everyone in the First District and the nation has the bright future they deserve.” ###
01.08.2016	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced he will bring Glastonbury resident James Tillman as his guest for President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address. Mr. Tillman spent 18 years in prison after a wrongful conviction until DNA testing organized by the Connecticut Innocence Project exonerated him in 2006. In 2015, he graduated from Goodwin College with an associate degree in Human Services. “It is an honor to share this historic moment with James Tillman,” said Larson. “He has been an inspiration and mentor to many in our community—including me. His story led me to introduce the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act with Rep. Sam Johnson to ensure any compensation received from a wrongful conviction is not taxed by the federal government.” Following his exoneration and release, the Connecticut General Assembly voted to award Mr. Tillman $5 million in compensation. The Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act was passed as part of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act on December 17, 2015. In addition to making future compensation tax free, it allows those previously exonerated to file for a return of any taxes paid on their awards if claimed one year after the Act’s passage. ###
01.05.2016	Washington – “The most patriotic thing we can do is vote. With respect to universal background checks on gun purchases, the U.S. House of Representatives has failed to fulfill its constitutional obligation and vote—even in the aftermath of Sandy Hook and countless other tragedies,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). “It is no wonder President Obama has acted where Congress has not. I applaud the President for taking a stand, but I will continue to call for the House to do its job and take up legislation that has broad, bipartisan support. Only Wayne LaPierre and his band of lobbyists stand in the way of a vote that a majority of Americans—and even a majority of the NRA—agree with.” ###
01.04.2016	Hartford– On Friday, January 1, 2016, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the Islamic Association of Greater Hartford in recognition of their work with community youth, refugees, and the wider community. Rep. Larson praised the Association's President, Dr. Reza Mansoor, for the group's efforts to combat radicalization and promote tolerance and understanding across Connecticut.“It was an honor to join Dr. Mansoor and the Islamic Association of Greater Hartford today, as they have been powerful voices for peace and respect,” said Larson. “Recent tragedies in San Bernardino and Paris have left us all afraid, but it is crucial to remember our Muslim neighbors are important members of our community. We are a nation of immigrants, and it is our diversity and the freedoms we offer--including freedom of religion--which make our country what it is. I commend Dr. Mansoor and the entire Association for their tireless work across the First District. Helping refugees, nurturing youth, and serving homeless shelters makes a real, positive impact on our community.”“The Islamic Association of Greater Hartford, in addition to being a spiritual place of worship for Muslims, has focused on giving our youth a positive American Muslim identity and living our faith through service to the less fortunate among our neighbors, including serving in shelters and soup kitchens” said Dr. Mansoor. “We are also focused on embracing and welcoming those refugees in the true American spirit of welcoming those ‘tempest tost and homeless yearning to breathe free’ that the statue of liberty still invites. This is the spirit of our faith and is the example of our role models in faith from Moses to Jesus to Muhammad, on all of whom be peace. I strongly commend you, Congressman Larson, for standing and voting on an American principal, in welcoming the refugees, and not giving in to fear and bigotry couched in national security.”The Islamic Association of Greater Hartford is currently collecting towels to distribute to area shelters on January 18, the National Day of Service. For more information, visit https://www.berlinmosque.org/ or https://www.facebook.com/iaghberlin. ###
12.18.2015	Washington – “I commend my colleagues in Congress for establishing the honorary designation of Librarian of Congress Emeritus as part of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). “For nearly thirty years, Dr. Billington stood at the helm of the Library of Congress, steering the nation’s fortress of knowledge and humanity through times of massive cultural change and technological advancement. I am pleased that his stewardship will be honored well beyond his tenure as the 13th Librarian of Congress.” ###
12.18.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), voted in favor of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016 that will fund the government for the next year and prevent another shutdown. “The legislation we are considering today presented a number of what I believe are unnecessary Hobson’s choices,” said Larson. “In a perfect world, we would never have to choose between funding the health care of 9/11 First Responders versus ignoring the needs of the Puerto Rican people; or delaying a harmful tax on collectively-bargained, employer-sponsored health plans versus jeopardizing our energy security by allowing for the exportation of crude oil for the first time in 40 years. We should not have to choose between a substantial increase in investment for critical medical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) versus provisions that further erode campaign finance disclosures.“I—along with other Democrats—will continue the fight for Puerto Rico, as it is shameful still no action has been taken by Republican leadership to bring up legislation. We will continue to fight for clean energy—particularly fuel cells—which were wrongfully left out of this agreement. We will continue to fight for campaign finance reform, and attempt to reverse some of the harmful provisions like those in this bill.“However, thanks to the efforts of Leader Pelosi, Ranking Member Lowey, Rep. DeLauro, and others, we were able to avoid harmful riders on issues like women’s health, Syrian refugees, Dodd-Frank, and many others. With the delay of the so-called “Cadillac tax”, as well as funding for the 9/11 First Responders and increases for vital areas of government like medical research, housing programs, and national service, as well as 68 additional F-35s that will only further enhance our manufacturing base, amongst many other provisions, there is a lot of good that is done with this bill. Even with the difficult choices this bill presented, I voted for it to move our nation forward and avoid yet another government shutdown.” ###
12.17.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined President Obama in supporting the passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, which included billions in tax breaks for working families via the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Credit, as well as the Brady/Larson R&D Tax Credit and the Johnson/Larson Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief legislation. “Though Congress has long been deeply divided, today we demonstrated we can find common ground for the good of the American people,” said Larson. “It is past time for us to make progress and move forward. Though this bill was far from perfect, it contains vital tax breaks for children and working families. Without the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Tax Creditprovisions, over 50 million Americans would have been at risk of losing all or part of the credits they rely on by 2018. We could not let that happen. “This bill also provides much needed stability in our tax code for small businesses and manufacturers. This is a tremendous victory for the First District to help grow jobs and keep us competitive globally. I am particularly thrilled to see the permanent extension of the R&D tax credit, a bill I have supported since I came to Congress in 1999, and sponsored with my colleague, Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX). The R&D tax credit is a driver of jobs and innovation both in Connecticut and across our nation. Making it permanent will provide security for companies to grow more jobs and make more investments here in America. I was also pleased that other provisions that will help spur economic development like Section 179 expensing were made permanent as well.” Another bill sponsored by Larson along with Rep. Sam Johnson (R-TX) – the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act – was included as a part of the PATH Act. Initially introduced in 2007 following the exoneration of James Tillman in Connecticut, the legislation would ensure that compensation awards received by those who were wrongfully accused are not subjected to federal taxes on their awards. “It is truly an honor to work alongside an American hero like Sam Johnson on the Ways and Means Committee. His commitment to this issue is just another example of his incredible service to our nation. I was proud to co-author the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief bill with him, which will right a tremendous wrong in our tax code. Individuals who have been wrongfully accused have already suffered enough. The notion that they would be taxed on the awards they receive as a result of their wrongful imprisonment is unconscionable. I thank the negotiators for including this common-sense bill in this package.” The PATH Act also includes permanent extensions of enhancements to a key higher education credit (the American Opportunity Tax Credit), of a deduction for teachers who purchase supplies for their classrooms, critical charitable provisions such as a credit for the donation of food inventory, a provision that allows for tax-free distributions from IRAs for charitable purposes. Other extensions include: 5 Year Extension of the New Markets Tax Credit (Larson is a cosponsor of H.R. 855 – New Markets Tax Credit Extension Act of 2015). Extension of mortgage debt forgiveness tax relief through 2016 (Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1002 – The Mortgage Forgiveness Tax Relief Act of 2015) Permanent Extension of the 9-percent minimum credit rate for the low-income housing tax credit (LIHTC) (Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1142) SIMPLE IRA improvements (Larson is the lead Democratic cosponsor of H.R. 3050) Permanent Extension of subpart F exception for active financing income (Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 961 - Permanent Active Financing Exception Act of 2015) CFC Look-Through extended for 5 years (Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1430 - Permanent CFC Look-Through Act of 2015). Clarification of valuation rule for early termination of charitable remainder trusts (Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 4192) ###
12.14.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the third anniversary of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School: “No one can forget the pain and grief we all felt in the aftermath of that horrific shooting. Our hearts were broken as our worst fears as parents came true. “Today we remember the twenty children taken before their time. We remember the six brave educators who died trying to protect their students. We think of the families who will never be the same. We stand with Newtown, in honor of their resilience, their compassion, and their courage. “In the wake of that awful day, we came together as a nation. We can do so again. We can be kinder, more understanding, more forgiving. Today, we are all Newtown. We grieve for those who were lost, and cherish those still with us.” ###
12.10.2015	Washington – “I commend Governor Malloy for taking executive action where Congress has failed to do the same. Keeping guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists is just common sense, and it is crucial to keeping our communities safe.” ###
12.08.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act (H.R. 158):“In light of the horrific attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, it is unquestionably clear that homegrown terrorism and European nationals returning from terrorist hot-spots continue to pose an imminent threat to the security of our homeland," said Larson. "Nothing is more important than the safety of the American people, and I hope today’s bipartisan vote is an indication that we can begin a sincere dialogue on ways to address a number of concrete security gaps – keeping firearms out of terrorists’ hands included.“I commend Leader Pelosi and Speaker Ryan for putting politics aside to focus on the critical effort to prevent terrorists from entering the United States. This bill is not a panacea, but it is a first step towards thoughtfully and effectively strengthening security.”Currently, the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) allows nationals from 38 countries to enter the United States for up to 90 days with merely an online security screening prior to their admission, the effectiveness of which is often compromised by insufficient intelligence sharing by the VWP countries. Under this bill, new passport requirements would make it harder for criminals or extremists to falsify their identities when traveling to the United States, and the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department would remove countries from the VWP unless all travelers are screened against INTERPOL databases. Additionally, those who have traveled to Iraq, Syria, or countries deemed state sponsors of terrorism will be required to undergo additional screenings unless that travel was conducted as part of military service or on behalf of a federal agency. ###
12.03.2015	Washington – “Infrastructure is neither Democratic nor Republican, it’s American, which is why I am proud that Congress has come together in a bipartisan manner to vote to put the nation back to work,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), who hosted House Transportation & Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) in the First District last July to examine the region’s infrastructure challenges, “I commend Chairman Shuster and Ranking Member DeFazio on their efforts to craft a long-term transportation bill. Our nation’s highways, bridges, and transit systems have gone neglected for too long, and this bill will meaningfully address our enormous infrastructure challenges. If we want to focus on putting America back to work, rebuilding its infrastructure continues to be the primary way of how we do it.”The FAST Act will provide Connecticut with more than $3.5 billion in funding for transportation projects over the next five years – a $310 million increase in federal support. This includes $2.7 billion for highways and $900 million in transit funding. Federal funds account for over half of Connecticut’s capital expenditures on transportation and the increased funding in this bill will allow our state to make crucial investments in infrastructure that will keep our economy moving forward.“This is a positive step, but more needs to be done. I would have preferred higher funding levels, but the FAST Act is a great improvement over the stopgap measures and short-term patches of the past. While it provides five years of funding, I am troubled by some of the pay-fors, particularly the provision requiring the IRS to use private debt collectors. I am also disappointed that it lacks the means to maintain sustainable, long-term funding beyond the five-year duration of the bill. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to adopt a sensible funding mechanism that fully addresses the infrastructure needs of the nation. The United States should be second to none when it comes to our infrastructure.” Today, the House passed the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (H.R. 22) by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 359 – 65. The FAST Act reauthorizes federal transportation programs through the year 2020 and increases the overall funding levels. It is the first long-term transportation bill Congress has passed since 2005. It also includes the renewal of the Export-Import Bank through the 2019 Fiscal Year, which passed the House in October through a rare discharge petition. ###
12.03.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the floor to address the epidemic of gun violence across the United States. “Every day the United States Congress remains silent on preventing gun violence, we remain complicit in the deaths of thousands of Americans,” said Larson. “It is our constitutional obligation to vote. Frankly, it does not take a lot of courage to hold a vote—no matter where you stand on this issue. Courage is what Officer Swasey demonstrated last week, giving his life in the line of duty, defending and protecting people under siege. We owe Officer Swasey, his loved ones, and everyone who has lost someone to gun violence a vote on commonsense measures to keep these tragedies from becoming the new normal. The only measure by which the public can hold members of Congress responsible is their voting record. “We talk often about terrorist threats. There is real terrorism happening in America every day. More than 1,000 mass shootings have occurred since the tragedy in Sandy Hook. People are dying on our streets due to gun violence, and still the House of Representatives has yet to hold a single vote. That is inexcusable. Americans are rightly outraged by our inaction, which is why I’m calling on all Americans to urge their member of Congress to take a vote on the Thompson/King background checks expansion bill before we adjourn for the holidays. It cannot wait any longer.” Click above to watch Rep. Larson’s remarks or visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Pt4gmSZhm4 ###
12.03.2015	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Joseph Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) issued the following statement on H.R. 1076, Republican Rep. Peter King’s Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act:“There is no excuse for allowing suspected terrorists to purchase firearms,” said the delegation. “For the third time this week, House Republicans blocked a commonsense measure to keep those on the FBI’s Terrorist Watchlist from legally obtaining deadly weapons. This is unconscionable. For the safety of the American people, Congress must hold a vote to close this dangerous loophole.” ###
12.02.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after passage of the Every Student Succeeds Act (S. 1177):“As a former teacher, I know a good education is key to ensuring our children have the brightest possible future,” said Larson. “The bi-partisan agreement passed tonight will replace the broken requirements of No Child Left Behind with strong support for schools and students who need it the most. States will have greater flexibility to set standards and improve school performance. I applaud the genuine bi-partisan effort that produced the compromise bill we passed today. Everyone deserves access to a quality education, and this agreement will help provide our children with every opportunity for success.”The Every Student Succeeds Act places more power in the hands of states to identify and assist struggling schools, provides resources to support and recruit teachers and educators, and strengthens critical investments in early childhood education, afterschool programming, literacy, and accelerated learning. ###
12.02.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement following the tragic shooting in San Bernardino, CA: “My heart goes out to those who lost a loved one in San Bernardino today. Once again, we must bear witness to another senseless tragedy. Enough is enough. For too long, Congress has been paralyzed by the influence of special interest groups. The U.S. House of Representatives has yet to even take a vote on commonsense reforms like universal background checks. It is our constitutional obligation to let our constituents know where we stand with our votes, but Congress has been derelict in its duty. No matter where we stand on this issue, we owe it to the American people to at least hold a vote. Every day we delay, Congress remains complicit in the deaths of thousands of Americans waiting for action while we sit idly by.” ###
11.19.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after voting against the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038): “Today I voted for the Democratic alternative – the Secure Refugee Process Act– that in addition to the current rigorous screening process, would require the identity verification of all refugee applicants (not just those from Syria). Any application containing insufficient or unreliable information would be denied,” said Larson. “In addition, it requires confirmation from five different federal agencies that an individual is not a threat to national security, and additional Inspector General and Congressional oversight. The safety and security of the American people is paramount. We should be working in a bipartisan manner to identify and address any risks that pose a threat to national security, not rush to the floor with a bill that could effectively put a pause on any Syrian refugees coming to the U.S. “I commend Governor Malloy for his courageous stance in welcoming the family of three—including their five year-old-child—in Connecticut when Indiana turned them away. That is the real American spirit. Barring innocent people—many of whom are women and children—from entering the country does not help us defeat ISIL. In fact, it could help with their recruitment. Our primary objective right now needs to be building a coalition with our allies, including countries in the Middle East, many of whom have felt the horror of ISIL’s attacks firsthand. We cannot defeat ISIL alone, nor should we try. We cannot allow fear to eclipse our longstanding tradition of sheltering those in need. When we overreact, we play into the hands of cowards whose only aim is to terrorize and slay innocent people. “This approach should involve a multipronged strategy that looks at some of the gaps in the visa waiver program that Senators Murphy, Corker and Burr have identified, and include Rep. Peter King’s bill that would bar anyone on the Terrorist Watch List from purchasing a firearm. It should also involve the commonsense approach that we took with the Democratic alternative today. “It is my hope that in the coming weeks we can pull together and develop an approach that strengthens our common position against ISIL and addresses any security gaps, without further punishing the victims of violence and persecution.” ###
11.18.2015	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement opposing the Tribal Sovereignty Act: "While it is crucial for tribal nations to maintain independent governance and I support tribal sovereignty, I equally support the rights of workers,” said Larson. “In 2004 and 2005, I opposed similar efforts to remove key protections for workers at tribal casinos, hotels, and other facilities where the vast majority of the labor force are not tribal members themselves. They deserve the protections provided by access to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to safeguard against unfair labor practices. We will continue to work with tribes with respect to their deep and abiding concerns." The Tribal Sovereignty Act would amend the National Labor Relations Act, a cornerstone of the New Deal, for the first time since 1947. Roughly 75% of affected workers are non-tribal members. ###
11.17.2015	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced his support for H.R. 3997 and the establishment of a Veterans Business Enterprise (VBE) program. This bill was announced as an alternative to H.R. 1694, which would recognize veteran-owned small businesses under the Disadvantaged Business Enterprises program (DBE) without allocating additional funding. In contrast, the VBE would be funded at the same level as the existing DBE program. “Our veterans deserve the same advantages that are currently enjoyed by minorities and women," said Larson. "The Disadvantaged Business Program was designed to promote minority- and women-owned small businesses. Expanding eligibility to participate in the DBE program without increasing funding levels would cram veterans into a program that would be underfunded and unable to accomplish its mandate. I am proud to support this bill as a sensible alternative. Under this proposal, a full ten percent of federal highway and transit contracts will go to veteran-owned small businesses. We can promote opportunities for veterans without pulling the rug out from under women- and minority-owned businesses in the process." ###
11.14.2015	Hartford, CT - “My thoughts and prayers are with President Hollande and the French people after this devastating attack. As details continue to emerge, I echo President Obama’s sentiments: America stands ready to aid our oldest ally in whatever way is needed.” ###
11.12.2015	GARFIELD, NJ – Today, U.S. Rep John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) for a lunch meeting with 200 constituents at the Garfield Senior Center to discuss retirement security and their plan to expand and strengthen Social Security. The two members serve on the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees Social Security and they were touting H.R. 1391, the ‘Social Security 2100 Act’, introduced by Rep. Larson and cosponsored by Rep. Pascrell. The measure would cut taxes for Social Security recipients, provide a benefit bump for current and future beneficiaries, and keep the system strong for generations to come. "I appreciate my friend Congressman John Larson from Connecticut for coming down to visit with the Garfield seniors today, and I want to thank him for taking the lead on this plan to bolster the Social Security program. All this talk about Social Security going bankrupt and not being around for future generations has been a scare tactic from those who want to make changes detrimental to the program to achieve an ideological objectives," stated Pascrell. "Our seniors will not be fooled. The plan we laid out today can extend the solvency of Social Security until the year 2100 and include a benefit increase for seniors by making minor changes to the program." “Social Security is not an entitlement – these are benefits earned by hard-working Americans who have paid into the system their whole lives.Two-thirds of retirees rely on Social Security for the majority of their income, and it is a lifeline for the disabled and those who have lost a loved one.Those who suggest we need to cut Social Security in order to save it are fundamentally misguided. We know there is a better way forward, which is why I am happy to visit the Garfield Senior Center today and proud to work with my friend Bill Pascrell on a plan that not only strengthens benefits now, but ensures Social Security will be here through the next century,” said Larson. The Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 1391, provides the following: Tax cut for over 11 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits Benefit bump beginning in 2016 for current and new beneficiaries Protection for low income workers by raising the minimum benefit from below the poverty line to 25% above Long term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula Social Security remains the single most reliable program for middle class Americans and is expected to pay full benefits over the next two decades. With common sense steps like those in the Social Security 2100 Act, Congress can boost this vital program now and ensure Social Security remains strong well into the future. In fact, the Social Security Administration’s Chief Actuary issued a report verifying that the plan would keep the program solvent beyond the next seventy-five years. ###
11.11.2015	Hartford, CT - "Today we recognize the courage and sacrifice of our nation's veterans. They put their lives on the line to secure our freedoms, and they deserve our respect and support every day of the year--not just Veterans Day. "Only one percent of our nation serves in the military. These brave few bear the burden for us all. In return for their commitment, it is our moral imperative to ensure they have the care they need when they come home. I applaud Connecticut and Governor Dannel Malloy for ending chronic homelessness among veterans in our state. This is an inspiring accomplishment, but we cannot stop there. "Many of our veterans came home wounded, carrying both physical and emotional scars. We must continue to address the lingering effects of post traumatic stress injuries and provide our veterans with every chance to readjust to life at home. Our veterans have served us with honor and courage. Today we remember that we must serve them too." ###
11.10.2015	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) honored Malta House of Care with the Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Awareness Award. Malta House provides no-cost mammograms in partnership with Hartford Hospital and St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center as well as education and follow-up care for women across Connecticut. “Each year, hundreds of thousands of women are diagnosed with breast cancer. It can be a frightening diagnosis for anyone, especially the uninsured or those living below the poverty level,” said Larson. “For nearly a decade, Malta House has provided women across Hartford with access to the care they need. Their devoted staff of volunteers have improved health outcomes for women throughout the state. We have a moral responsibility to make sure no one goes without the care they need, and I commend Malta House for their tireless efforts in the fight against breast cancer.” "Nancy was my patient for 20 years when I was in private practice," states Dr. Theresa Caputo, Medical Director for the Malta House of Care. "She was very dedicated to raising awareness of breast cancer. I am doubly honored to accept this award on behalf of the thousands of women who come to the Malta House of Care because they have nowhere else to go for life-saving preventative care." The Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Award is named for former Manchester resident and longtime breast cancer activist, Nancy Pilver. Nancy served as the State Legislative Chair of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition Foundation, and was the first recipient of the award in 1999. She passed away from breast cancer in 2003. ###
11.09.2015	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman, and the Connecticut State Veterans Memorial Board of Directors today joined Connecticut Military Department Adjutant General Thaddeus Martin, Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs Commissioner Sean Connolly, and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary for Policy and Planning Linda Schwartz to officially commemorate the opening of the Connecticut State Veterans Memorial. Located inside of Minuteman Park at the intersection of Capitol Avenue and Broad Street in Hartford - directly in front of the William A. O'Neill State Armory - the memorial pays tribute to the more than 1.3 million men and women from Connecticut who served honorably in the U.S. military in defense of our freedom. It recognizes past, present, and future Connecticut veterans and will serve as a site for official observances, activities, and ceremonies that honor veterans. "Our veterans have served bravely and sacrificed much for the sake of our freedoms," Rep. John B. Larson said. "I commend the Connecticut Veterans State Memorial Committee for their tireless work on this tribute. We owe our veterans much, and I am proud to see their heroism recognized today." "The Connecticut State Veterans Memorial serves as an enduring tribute to the high regard that we hold for the more than 1.3 million Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen from Connecticut who have served our state and our nation since the Revolutionary War," Governor Malloy said. "Our state has a deep military history, and over 200,000 veterans continue to call Connecticut home today. The opening of this memorial in our capitol city will provide all of us with a special place to honor those who have served, those who have made the ultimate sacrifice, and those who continue their courageous work around the world today." "So many people have worked tirelessly to get this tribute completed - a place to gather, remember, and reflect on the millions of Connecticut residents who helped build and protect this great nation," Lt. Governor Wyman said. "This memorial tells a story about our country and the men and women throughout history who have sacrificed so much to keep us safe. We are grateful to our veterans, and thank the committee for establishing this memorial." The memorial features pillars representing the five branches of the military, large stones reflecting U.S. wars and conflicts, and smaller pavers engraved with the names of Connecticut veterans. "This is an historic occasion which also marks the culmination of a long journey from 2007 to this event," Assistant Secretary Schwartz said. "Many citizens and veterans contributed time, resources, finances, and talents to bring this memorial to life. Hours upon hours of an 'all-volunteer' force are precious gifts brought to bear in honoring the men and women of our state who answered the call to protect and defend freedom. Our hope is that for generations to come, Connecticut will always have this memorial to honor our veterans." "Several years ago, a small group of dedicated Connecticut veterans and volunteers were given the mission to establish a statewide memorial to honor our veterans, from the past, the present, and future," Connecticut Army National Guard Lieutenant Colonel Lesbia Nieves, who serves as Co-President of the Connecticut State Veterans Memorial Board of Directors, said. "Today, we are proud to introduce Connecticut residents to this special place where veterans can gather and we can honor all who have served our country." "It is especially gratifying that so many veterans organizations and families of veterans stepped forward and helped to support the construction of this project," Sergeant Peter Galgano Jr., Co-President of the Connecticut State Veterans Memorial Board of Directors, said. "This is particularly evident in the hundreds of personalized granite pavers placed at this site, permanently remembering Connecticut servicemen and women forever." Commissioner Connolly said, "Our great State of Connecticut has a long standing tradition of serving those who have served. Benjamin Fitch of Darien established the first home in the entire country dedicated to veterans in 1864. That tradition of appreciation and gratitude for our military men and women continues today as we officially open the Connecticut State Veterans Memorial with the incredible efforts put forth by the committee to see this to fruition." Major General Thad Martin, Adjutant General of the Connecticut National Guard, said, "To be able to look across the street from our headquarters and see a memorial dedicated to the sacrifices made by Connecticut's veterans is a lasting reminder of why we serve today. The hard work it took to make this memorial possible goes to show just how much Connecticut's citizens care about those who answered their nation's call." The construction of the memorial was supported by $614,500 in state bonding and by private donations from companies, foundations, and individuals. Engraved pavers for the memorial may still be ordered. Additional information is available at www.cthonorsvets.org. ###
11.05.2015	Washington – “Today’s bipartisan vote provides our military with the long-term funding they need to operate effectively. I commend Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi for their commitment to providing responsible funding for our servicemen and women. Today we showed when we work together, we can pass meaningful legislation for the good of the country.” ###
11.05.2015	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement regarding his vote in favor of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015 (STRRA). This legislation would reauthorize federal surface transportation programs for six years: “This is a good first step, but we still have a long way to go. Our nation faces enormous infrastructure needs. As this bill moves to conference, it is imperative we increase funding levels to make crucial repairs to our crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems. I am also pleased that the House has once again passed the bipartisan Export-Import Bank reauthorization, which is vitally important to Connecticut manufacturers. It is time we bring this to President for his signature so Ex-Im can live again.” ###
11.03.2015	Washington — Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Steve Israel (D-NY) announced legislation to move Election Day from the first Tuesday in November to the first full weekend, thereby making it more convenient for voters and increasing voter turnout. In 2014, two-thirds of non-voters didn’t vote because it was inconvenient, didn’t have enough time, or conflicted with their work or school schedule. Rep. Israel said, “Voting should be easy and accessible. This is why, in 1845, Congress decided that voting on a Tuesday made sense because it was the easiest day for farmers in our agrarian society to get to the polls. But times have changed – last year a majority of non-voters said that work, school or their busy schedules prevented them from voting. It’s clear that voting on Tuesday doesn’t make sense anymore. By moving Election Day to the weekend we are encouraging, and giving more working Americans the opportunity to participate. Our democracy is best served when everyone has a voice and when our leaders are elected by as many Americans as possible.” Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn said, “Weekend voting would empower working people, students and seniors‎ and add value to the major cornerstone of our democracy.” “Our nation is stronger when more Americans have the opportunity to vote," said Rep. Larson. "Unfortunately, many aspects of our electoral system have been handed down from previous generations and no longer make sense for our modern society. One simple change that would make a big difference for Americans from all walks of life would be to move away from scheduling elections on a Tuesday, or any day during the work week. Enabling voters to cast their ballots on weekends would make it far easier for our students and workforce to cast a ballot and make their voices heard. I commend Rep. Steve Israel for his dedication to a fair election process.” “Having Election Day on a Tuesday is an outdated requirement that simply does not comport with the schedules of modern Americans,” said Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY). “Instituting weekend voting would make it easier and more convenient for Americans to exercise their right to vote, and would help reduce lines at the polls and increase voter turnout.” “Democracy works best when we make it easier for eligible voters to participate,” said Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA). “Moving elections from one Tuesday to a full weekend will improve the voter turnout that a healthy democracy depends on.” “Equal access to the polls is a fundamental American value. We need to make it easier for men and women in this country to vote, and establishing weekend voting would enfranchise millions of Americans. I am pleased to co-sponsor this legislation, which will allow people across this country to be heard,” said Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL). The Weekend Voting Act would allow for national polls to be open from 10 a.m. (Eastern Time) on Saturday to 6 p.m. (ET) on Sunday in the 48 contiguous states. Election officials would be permitted to close polls during the overnight hours if they determine it would be inefficient to keep them open. Co-sponsors include Representatives James Clyburn (SC-06), John Larson (CT-01), John Garamendi (CA-03), Alcee Hastings (FL-20), and Louise Slaughter (NY-25). The long-standing tradition of holding federal elections on the first Tuesday of November began with an act of Congress in 1845. Tuesday was selected for its comparative convenience because it was a designated “court day” and the day in which land-owners would typically be in town to conduct business. The tradition was based on the then-agrarian American society. Currently, most polls are open only 12 hours (from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.) for one day. According to polling conducted after the 2014 midterm elections, only 36 percent of the voting population cast a ballot in 2014, and 69 percent of the voting population that did not vote cited scheduling conflicts or busy schedules as the reason preventing them from getting to the polls. Voter turnout in the United States has long lagged behind similar democracies around the world. ###
10.28.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted in favor of H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. “I commend Speaker Boehner and Democratic Leader Pelosi for reaching an agreement that alleviates some of the devastating sequestration cuts and protects the full faith and credit of the United States,” said Larson. “Washington has rarely been so divided, and the Republican Conference has seen unprecedented chaos. That Speaker Boehner could present this budget under these conditions is a victory in itself. It is my hope that with the passage of this bill we may have turned a corner in Washington and can get back to the business of moving the country forward. “For too long, compromise has been a dirty word in Washington. The country’s most pressing issues are neither Democratic nor Republican; they are American. Our roads and bridges, Social Security, and Medicare benefit us all. I hope today’s bipartisan vote is a sign of things to come. The American people sent us here to solve problems, and it is past time we got to work.” ###
10.27.2015	Washington – Today, the House of Representatives voted to renew the charter of the Export-Import Bank, which expired on June 30, 2015, through a rarely-utilized procedure known as a discharge petition. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “Congress took an important step towards reviving the Export-Import bank and proving we can still work together in a bipartisan manner for the good of the American people,” said Larson. “I commend the 127 brave Republicans who went against the extreme elements of their conference to protect and preserve American jobs. Clearly we should have brought this measure to the floor months ago, as it has broad bipartisan support. This should at least be an indication for the Senate that the Export-Import Bank will live again as long as it is given a vote. I have long advocated for Congress to return to regular order so we can pass commonsense legislation such as a long-term highway bill or immigration reform, and this historic vote will serve as model for future governance. “Today’s vote demonstrates that we can work across the aisle. I hope this will be a turning point for Congress, and I am tremendously proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in voting to revive the Export-Import Bank. Supporting our small businesses and manufacturers is neither Democratic nor Republican: it is American.” The discharge petition to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank reached 218 signatories on October 9, 2015. Discharge petitions originated in 1910, and have been utilized only five times in the last eighty years. A discharge petition was last brought forward in 2002 to trigger a vote on the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. ###
10.21.2015	Washington – Reps. John B. Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), and Richard Neal (MA-1) released the following statement on the announcement of AerLingus flights to Bradley Airport: “Direct flights to Europe from Bradley Airport will provide a significant economic boon to the Hartford-Springfield region and beyond, strengthen our trade and tourism partnership with Ireland, and open up easier access to all of Europe for tourists and business travelers alike. Connecticut and western Massachusetts have seen a significant uptick in international tourism, and with this development, we will continue to work with our trade partners overseas to build on that trend.” ###
10.21.2015	Hartford, CT – “I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of Simon Konover. Simon was a dear friend whose kindness and compassion were reflected in everything he did. As a Holocaust survivor, he endured one of the darkest moments in history, and emerged with the desire to do good and shape a better world. He succeeded. His philanthropy and generosity have enriched countless lives both in Connecticut and across the country. My thoughts and prayers are with his loved ones.” ###
10.21.2015	Washington – In July, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) held a forum with residents of Hartford’s North End to hear their thoughts and concerns about the spike in violent crime over the year. Now, Steve Harris, Sam Saylor, Andrew Woods, and a number of community leaders are joining Rep. Larson in Washington for meetings with key federal agencies to learn more about efforts aimed at reducing violence and increasing opportunities for education and employment. “I am honored to bring Steve Harris, Andrew Woods, Sam Saylor, and the delegation they organized to Washington,” said Larson. “Mr. Harris was instrumental in illustrating the challenges facing the 06120 zip code—one of the poorest zip codes in the First Congressional District. This delegation knows the issues in their community firsthand, and they deserve the chance to share their vision and experiences.” “From my point of view, this is a great opportunity to talk about the challenges that we face in the 06120 zip code,” said Steve Harris. “The folks we have met with through Congressman Larson's office, such as the Departments of Justice, Labor, and the White House among others, have certainly allowed us to explain the unique challenges we face in the North End of Hartford. I think they now have a better idea of what those challenges are. I want to thank congressman Larson for setting these meetings up for us, and I want to thank everyone who joined us in Washington.” “As the Director of Hartford's My Brother's Keeper initiative, I am very proud of our coalition's advocacy here in Washington as we seek to secure federal support for the 06120 to enhance opportunities for boys and young men of color,” said Andrew Woods. Over the course of their trip, the North End delegation and Rep. Larson will meet with the following agencies: Office of Community Planning and Development in the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Employment and Training Administration in the U.S. Department of Labor Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention in the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Minority Health in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services The trip will culminate with a meeting between Rep. Larson, the North End leaders, and Michael Smith, Special Assistant to the President and Director of My Brother's Keeper (MBK). MBK aims to increase the opportunities for boys and men of color by ensuring they have ample resources from the private, public, and philanthropic to succeed in school, college, and the workforce. More information on the program can be found at: https://www.mbkhartford.org. ###
10.15.2015	Hartford, CT - Today the Social Security Administration announced there will be no cost of living adjustment (COLA) for Social Security beneficiaries in 2016. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “Seniors spend far more on health care and heating and cooling their homes than on televisions or new cars. We owe it to them to make sure we truly account for the real costs they incur. Unfortunately, as a result of a formula set by law, Social Security beneficiaries will not see an increase in their cost of living adjustment next year. Millions of Americans rely on Social Security for the bulk of their income. We need to really examine how we can strengthen and expand those benefits—including making sure the COLA formula accurately reflects their needs. “My proposal—the Social Security 2100 Act—would adopt a new formula to account for inflation known as CPI-E to better reflect the expenses seniors face.” Rep. Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act in March of 2015. ###
10.14.2015	HARTFORD, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has been awarded over $2.3 million in grants from the United States Department of Justice under the federal Second Chance Act that will help bolster one of the state's criminal justice efforts. The grants, awarded to both the Department of Corrections, the City of New Haven, and a variety of non-profit organizations, will support a wide range of efforts to reduce recidivism and help turn offenders into productive members of society. The federal grants will directly support the Governor's Second Chance Society crime reduction initiative, which he signed into law this summer. They specifically focus on reducing recidivism by improving programing, implementing juvenile justice reforms, supporting strategic planning, and developing new strategies. "I commend Governor Malloy for his commitment to the Second Chance program," Congressman John Larson (CT-1) said. "These grants will help Connecticut reduce criminal recidivism while strengthening the community and our families. Public safety remains a top priority, and we have seen time and again that providing support, mentoring, and opportunities to those transitioning out of incarceration dramatically reduces the chances they will re-offend. The United States has a larger imprisoned population than nearly any other nation. It is our responsibility to change that, and the Second Chance initiative is a positive step in that direction." "In Connecticut, we are working to break a cycle of crime and poverty that has persistent for too long. Our efforts are about lowering crime, benefitting the economy, and transforming lives and communities. Crime is already at a nearly 50-year low - and we're working to drive it down even further," Governor Malloy said. "The Second Chance Society is not just about being tough on crime, but smart on crime. We're fundamentally changing the way we approach criminal justice in Connecticut, and these grants will no doubt help. I would like to thank Connecticut's Congressional delegation for their work on helping secure these dollars, as well as the Department of Justice and Attorney General Loretta Lynch." Last month, the FBI released statistics showing that in 2014, Connecticut had the fourth largest drop in violent crime of any state in the nation - a 9.7% decline over the prior year. That is on top of a 10.1% decrease the state experienced in 2013. The Governor said that a broad coalition of public safety and criminal justice professionals working cohesively, along with nonprofits and community groups focused on prevention and rehabilitation, are helping the state make extraordinary strides at reducing crime in the state. "This major federal investment is an endorsement of the powerful work Connecticut is doing to develop strategies, programs and policies to drive down recidivism and end the cycle of incarceration," Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "The goals of criminal justice are only truly served when offenders who have served their time are able to successfully transition back into their communities and families in a way that lowers the risk that they will commit another crime. That means providing services to both children and their incarcerated parents, providing meaningful employment and housing assistance, and developing a structure for sentencing and incarceration that promotes rehabilitation over punishment alone. Connecticut's Second Chance Society initiative is leading the nation in building a criminal justice system that recognizes the need to hold law-breakers accountable while also making sure they, their families and communities have access to the services they need to reduce the risk of future criminal behavior." "Society benefits when ex-offenders have the necessary tools, not just to re-enter our community, but to create productive lives for themselves and their families," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) said. "New Haven has been in the forefront of this effort with their innovative Fresh Start Reentry Initiative. I am proud that so many Connecticut organizations are dedicated to providing opportunities to ensure that everyone in our state has the opportunity to succeed." "An individual who has paid his or her price to our state should not be encouraged to recidivate due to a lack of resources or difficulty finding a job," Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) said. "We need strong training and job placement programs to assist these men and women re-entering our society. I applaud the Department of Justice and the Governor's Office on their commitment to a strategy to reduce recidivism. These federal grants will go a long way to improve the lives of young people and adults across Connecticut and strengthen our communities." "Reintegration of non-violent offenders is a priority in New Haven because it reunites families, rebuilds trust and faith, and restores men and women to contributing, productive members of this community," New Haven Mayor Toni N. Harp said. "Funding from these grants will help underwrite program development and administration among all providers to help provide a Fresh Start and the benefit of a second chance to those who are committed to learning from a previous incarceration." ###
10.09.2015	Washington – “Today Congress demonstrated we still have the power to address meaningful issues—even in the midst of unprecedented chaos. Over forty Republicans joined the Democratic Caucus in a discharge petition to ensure the Export-Import Bank is reauthorized and reopened to help American companies win new contracts. This critical program gives American manufacturers and small businesses a level playing field to compete overseas. “Thankfully today, the entire Connecticut delegation and responsible Republicans worked together for a common cause: supporting American jobs. We are all Americans first, regardless of party. When we put aside our differences and remember the needs of the people we serve, we can make a real difference.” Today, the discharge petition to reauthorize the Export-Import bank reached 218 signatories, allowing it to be brought to the Floor as a privileged bill. ###
10.07.2015	Hartland, CT – “I commend Governor Malloy for his commitment to ensuring Connecticut’s infrastructure remains safe, sound, and dependable,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). “The Peck Orchard Road Bridge in Hartland sees significant use, especially during rush hour. This grant will allow Hartland to completely replace this lynchpin of local travel, providing residents with a safer, easier commute. Improvements in transportation also spur the economy, creating new jobs and supporting surrounding businesses. This is truly a huge win for Hartland.” Yesterday, Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced that Hartland would receive $450,000 under the Small Town Economic Assistance Program (STEAP). Hartland is one of thirteen towns across Connecticut selected under this latest award. ###
09.30.2015	Washington – “It is a sad day when 151 Republicans would vote to shut down the government over Planned Parenthood. This is a reckless action that puts politics ahead of people--and the American public is tired of it. "It took Speaker Boehner stepping down and Sen. McConnell standing firm to bring this bill to the floor. I commend the Republican leadership for preventing a shutdown tonight, but we all know this is only a temporary fix. Come December, we will likely face the same battle, jeopardizing the economy and the millions of Americans who rely on VA Housing Benefits, lifesaving research at the National Institute for Health, and the numerous other services that would go dark if the government closed its doors. "There is a path forward. If the Republican leadership brings nonpartisan bills to the floor, they will pass. Both Democrats and Republicans know we need to invest in infrastructure to put the country back to work. One faction of the GOP cannot be allowed to gamble with the livelihoods of Americans who need our help. The tail has wagged the dog for too long." ###
09.29.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Chris Murphy (D-CT) and Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) announced over $100,000 in federal funds has been awarded to the Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation in Bloomfield, CT to place service dogs with wounded veterans. This award from the U.S. Department of Defense will go towards the training of two German Shepherds to be placed with visually impaired veterans in the next 12 months. Fidelco will also continue outreach to wounded veterans in need of service dogs. “Our veterans risk and sacrifice so much,” said Larson. “It is our moral imperative to ensure they receive all the support they need when they come home. I commend the DOD and Fidelco for their continued commitment to our wounded warriors. These service dogs have an incredible impact on the lives of our veterans, allowing them greater independence and freedom.” “Trained service dogs offer life-changing assistance for wounded and visually impaired veterans, allowing for independence and mobility that may otherwise have been out of reach,” said Blumenthal. “This federal award is a small recognition of Fidelco’s longtime commitment to our nation’s veterans, and the outstanding work they do to provide service dogs to those in need. Our nation remains in deep debt to our wounded veterans, and I will continue to fight as Ranking Member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee to ensure that we honor their service and sacrifice by providing them every support they need to live full and productive lives.” “I commend the Department of Defense for its commitment to serving wounded veterans, including providing service dogs to veterans in need,” said Murphy. “The German Shepherds trained by Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation in Bloomfield will help these wounded veterans recover, regain independence, and reconnect with their loved ones.” “One of the most important responsibilities we have as a nation is to care for the brave men and women who have served in uniform after they return home,” said Courtney. “The Fidelco service dogs will support independent living for Connecticut wounded warriors, and I look forward to seeing this partnership continue in the future.” “We have long known the benefits of service dogs who help individuals with physical disabilities, but we are now seeing the transformative effects specially trained dogs can have on our nation’s veterans,” DeLauro said. “The Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation is committed to providing lifetime of care through a strong partnership between these canines and the men and women who have served our country. I am a proud supporter of this program, which helps veterans with increased mobility and independence, traumatic brain injuries, and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and I look forward to seeing the great work Fidelco Guide Dog Foundation will do in Connecticut thanks to this award.” “Our veterans deserve the best care and services we can provide, but too often the system has let them down,” said Himes. “Often, the scars that they bear are not just physical, but also emotional and psychological. These service dogs can provide help when it’s needed to make the chores of day-to-day living easier for the wounded warriors who need the help and provide companionship that’s beneficial to their health.” “We have a duty to honor the commitments we made to our veterans who have sacrificed so much in service to our country,” Esty said. “We ought to do all we can to ensure that our service members have access to the best available care. I applaud the DOD on its commitment to supporting our veterans. These funds will go a long way to improve the quality of life for our visually impaired veterans that receive service dogs.” The Fidelco Guide Dog “Share the Vision for Service Members and Veterans” program is dedicated to creating successful partnerships between veterans and service dogs. Fidelco oversees every stage of the training process from early development to formalized guide dog instruction. Their comprehensive application process ensures optimal placements for each veteran and service dog. ###
09.25.2015	Washington – “My heart goes out to Speaker John Boehner after what I am sure was a very difficult decision. I commend him for his service to Congress, his country, and the citizens of Ohio. Speaker Boehner met the challenges that stem from leading this institution with dignity; he often wore emotions on his sleeve, and wholeheartedly cared for the House. Bringing Pope Francis to the Capitol is the crowning achievement of his legacy, and I hope he is deservedly proud of his work on that effort. I wish him and his family well. Preventing a government shutdown might not appear to be an act of courage, but it speaks to the selfless nature of a man who put his country above his Speakership.” ###
09.24.2015	Washington – “It is a tremendous honor to witness this Pope’s humanity, humility, and compassion firsthand. Pope Francis inspires the very best in us—Catholic and non-Catholic alike. His genuine devotion to the good of all mankind resonates with authenticity grounded in the Golden Rule that he referenced in his remarks. “I applaud the Pope for his commitment to caring for all, especially those most vulnerable to the ravages of war, poverty, and social injustice. He correctly notes that we in Congress have the privilege and the responsibility to look after all of the citizens we represent, to thoughtfully legislate in their best interest. “Let us hope that his appeal to our better angels spills into the final days of this fiscal year with so much important legislation still ahead. “This trip is particularly special to me, as I was able to share it with Father James Nock and Sister Peggy Evans of East Hartford, who, between them, have given over 100 years of service to their faith, their community, and their country. It was awe-inspiring to witness their joy during this historic moment.” ###
09.22.2015	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced he is bringing Father James Nock, pastor of Our Lady of Peace in East Hartford, and Sister Margaret “Peggy” Evans, a guidance counselor at East Catholic High School, to Washington D.C. this week. The trip coincides with the historic visit of Pope Francis. Father Nock and Sister Evans will join Larson at several events featuring the Pope. Rep. Larson, Father Nock, Sister Evans, and others attend the Pope's address on the White House lawn. “It is an honor to bring Father Nock and Sister Peg to Washington for the Pope’s visit,” said Larson. “Father Nock presided over my children’s baptisms and communions, spoke at my father’s funeral, and sat at my mother’s bedside when she passed. Sister Peg has devoted her life to serving her community—including where we both grew up in Mayberry Village. They are both pillars of the East Hartford community, and I could not be prouder to have them join me for this historic occasion.” “I can’t wait to see the Pope in person, so I can see his humanness and kindness with my own eyes,” said Father Nock. “What an honor and a blessing it is to have a chance to see the Pope,” said Sister Evans. “He is a wonderful leader and just what the Church needs today. That Congressman Larson would invite me to join him is just incredible. This is one of the most exciting things to happen to me in my whole life.” Father James Nock is a graduate of Saint Bonaventure University. He was ordained in the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris on June 26, 1964. He has previously served as the Chaplain of the Connecticut State Senate. Sister Evans has been a member of the East Catholic High School faculty for 46 years. During her tenure, she has taught Spanish and religion, served as the vice principal of academics, and now serves as a guidance counselor and class advisor. ###
09.22.2015	Hartford, CT – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today announced $2.2 million in funds from the U.S. Department of Justice to improve the quality, completeness and accessibility of criminal history records that feed the state and nation’s background check systems. The funds will support four projects, including: 1) strengthening of the state Judicial Branch’s protection order registry; 2) implementation of a web-based interface for criminal court clerks to record and disseminate convictions, mental health adjudications and other dispositions, increasing the number of mental health and criminal disqualification records available to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System used for determining eligibility to purchase a firearm; 3) strengthening of Probate Court case management to ensure complete, timely records are transmitted to NICS; and 4) modernization of the State Police Bureau of Identification’s Criminal Records Unit and Fingerprinting Unit. “A background check system is only as strong as the information it relies on—a reality that we have seen play out across the country with devastating consequences as individuals who should have been disqualified from purchase have been able to access deadly weapons and commit atrocious acts of violence. Incomplete or inaccessible records mean that serious, dangerous red flags may be overlooked, with the potential for catastrophic results. I applaud Connecticut for its proactive leadership in strengthening and streamlining the collection and dissemination of these vital records, and I commend the U.S. Department of Justice for funding this life-saving work. Unfortunately, our background-check systems remain riddled with loopholes that, even with the best and most comprehensive data, can fatally undermine the ability of these systems to safeguard the public. Congress must pass legislation requiring universal background checks immediately,” Blumenthal said. “More background checks mean more lives saved - plain and simple. With this new funding, Connecticut cities and towns will be safer because our background check system will be more effective at keeping guns out of the hands of criminals. Our existing background system prevents 100,000 criminals and domestic abusers from purchasing guns each year, but the continued scourge of gun violence across our country has made it all too clear that these checks need to be strengthened,” said Murphy. “I’d like to thank the Department of Justice for their commitment to ensuring that background checks continue to save lives.” “This is great news for improving the safety of our communities. Stronger background checks will ensure protection orders and firearm purchases are handled securely and in a timely fashion. We in Connecticut know the benefit of these programs. I commend the Department of Justice for investing in this vital tool to help keep Connecticut safe,” Larson said. “This funding is critically important to the smooth and timely functioning of Connecticut’s justice system,” DeLauro said. “I am particularly pleased that a portion of the money will help improve our system of doing background checks for firearm purchasers. As we have done in so many other areas, Connecticut is leading the way and proving that comprehensive background checks can be done in a commonsense, responsible, speedy manner.” "These funds to modernize our background check system will help our state reduce the number of firearms falling into the hands of dangerous criminals. Modernizing the system to link with federal databases is an important step to help our police keep our communities safer,” Courtney said. “These funds help Connecticut remain a leader in the fight against gun violence,” said Himes. “Every time we keep a gun out of the hands of someone who should not legally possess it, we may be saving the life of someone’s parent or child. This helps our efforts to close every loophole, make background checks universal and strengthen our mental-health support systems. We are in this fight for the long haul, make no mistake about it, and announcements like today’s show that we are making steady, incremental progress toward a safer state and nation.” “Enhanced criminal background checks save lives and make our communities safer,” said Esty, vice chair of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. “Connecticut has taken multiple concrete steps to lead the nation in effective gun violence prevention measures – strengthening our state’s background check system is yet another vital piece in our overall efforts to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and dangerously ill individuals. I applaud today’s announcement and will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on reforms that keep our communities safe.” ###
09.21.2015	Hartford, CT - "I was deeply saddened to hear of Ted's passing. He was one of pillars of the Greatest Generation who helped make this country what it is today. As a proud Marine, a legendary democratic leader, and a great American, Ted was truly an inspiration to many. His passing is a tremendous loss to our community, and my heart goes out to all who knew and loved him." ###
09.18.2015	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced the Fuel Cell Tax Extenders Act of 2015 to extend federal incentives for residential, commercial, and vehicular fuel cell use. Several identical tax incentives expired in 2014, while others are set to expire in December 2016. This legislation will extend those credits through the year 2021, promoting American energy independence and clean energy development “Fuel cell technology continues to grow and improve, supporting thousands of jobs and supplying clean energy to more and more Americans,” said Larson. “Extending incentives for businesses, homeowners, or those purchasing new cars will make it easier to develop and use fuel cell and hydrogen technology—and provide the certainty that such investments remain affordable and accessible for all. These incentives are already in place. As the technology continues to improve, it just makes sense to ensure more Americans have access to this clean, affordable energy.” "Fuel cell technology has gained widespread traction becase of the efficiency and productivity gains that are realized. This is something everyone can get on board with," said Rep. Paul Tonko (NY-20), a co-sponsor of the bill. "This legislation extends a critical and robust tax credit that will provide the incentive for large scale conversions to this clean technology at manufacturing and distribution centers across the country, which will ultimately lead to new jobs. I thank Congressman Larson for his commitment to encouraging innovation and making energy efficiency our fuel of choice." “Fuel cells are an ultra-clean, reliable, commercially-viable energy solution that is being adopted by businesses across the U.S., and Rep. Larson, a longtime supporter of fuel cell technology, fully understands the vast potential of the industry,” said David Giordano, responsible for federal and state government relations at Doosan Fuel Cell. “Specific to Doosan, the Tax Extender Bill will help drive market share while our engineering advancements accelerate to help achieve grid parity, ultimately making Doosan subsidy- and incentive-free in the near future.” “This legislation provides the fuel cell and hydrogen energy industry with the tax policy certainty it needs to grow and to provide high tech jobs and clean energy solutions for our nation,” said Morry Markowitz, President of the Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Energy Association. “What makes fuel cells unique among other clean energy solution is the number of different applications they are used for; from transportation to stationary/distributed power, to portable energy, and material handling. We are grateful to Congressman Larson and the others supporters of this legislation for their work on this important issue.” “Extending the investment tax credit now assures the route to emission reductions, delivered affordable to rate payers, plus the added benefit of job creation as fuel cells are designed and manufactured in America,” said Chip Bottone, President and Chief Executive Officer, FuelCell Energy, Inc. “Further, there are compelling fuel cell solutions for generating renewable hydrogen and for carbon capture and pollutant reduction at existing coal fired power plants that can be delivered to rate payers cost effectively.” ###
09.17.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met with Voices for National Service to discuss the impact of service programs on communities across the country. After the event, he gave the following statement: “When we talk about the one percent, we usually refer to the wealthiest one percent of the nation. Today, I want to recognize the other one percent—those who serve our country in the armed services or various peacetime organizations, like those who joined me this morning. A democracy cannot long survive when we defer to the few what is the responsibility of the many. For too long, this small fraction of the American people have borne the burden for all of us. “There is a myth that millennials are not willing to serve, but that is absurd. The reality is, the nation has not provided them with adequate opportunities to give back. AmeriCorps and other service organizations routinely turn away scores of applicants because they lack the space to accommodate them. To make matters worse, the majority party here in Congress wants to cut public funding for the parent organization of AmeriCorps and SeniorCorps. “We shouldn’t further erode opportunities for young people to serve their country. We should instead invest in our young people and reward them for their service by helping to ease the burdens of paying for a higher education. We need to create new opportunities which will allow millions of Americans to help their communities while bettering themselves, their country, and the wider world. “That’s why I, along with Congressman Joseph Kennedy, are currently developing legislation to expand service opportunities. Today, I asked for the Voices for National Service coalition partners to provide me with their thoughts and ideas on expanding service nationwide.” Voices for National Service advocates for service opportunities for Americans of all ages. They represent a diverse coalition of national service programs, state service commissions, and individuals. AmeriCorps and SeniorCorps are programs administered by the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS). CNCS is an independent federal agency that provides millions of Americans with the opportunity to serve their country through a variety of service programs. ###
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON — Today, U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), a member of the U.S. Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee and leader of the Senate Democrats’ #ACAWorks campaign,U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.),and U.S. Representatives John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) applauded the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) announcement that Community Health Centers around Connecticut will receive over $6.2 million in funding from the Affordable Care Act to expand and improve primary care services. The awards include $3,720,998 to increase access to comprehensive services such as medical, oral, behavioral, pharmacy, and vision care to over 12,000 new patients. The funds also include $2,479,370 for infrastructure improvements, including facility renovation, expansion, or construction to increase patient and service capacity. “The Affordable Care Act is working in Connecticut because of the amazing efforts of community health centers to expand access to primary care. The more people that have access to preventative care, the more money we save on crisis care. This funding will make sure that Connecticut continues to lead the nation in the successful implementation of the Affordable Care Act,” Murphy said. Blumenthal said,“Community health centers are on the front lines of public health, providing life-saving and live-changing primary care to families most in need. These sizable grants will expand services and enable centers to treat more patients-- a powerful recognition of the important work these health centers do every day across Connecticut.” “This is great news for the Charter Oak Health Center, First Choice Health Centers, and the other clinics across the state. Nothing is more important than the health and wellbeing of our communities. With these grants, our health centers will be able to fund the renovations, upgrades, and expansions they need to continue providing the very best care to those who need it most,” Larson said. Courtney said, "Community health centers are on the front lines of the effort to promote health and wellness through access to affordable, quality health care and social services. These grants will help thousands of eastern Connecticut families who receive quality health care at community health centers." “The awards announced today will ensure Connecticut’s most vulnerable patients have greater access to high-quality health care,” DeLauro said. “Community Health Center, Inc.; Cornell Scott Hill Health Corporation and Fair Haven Community Health Clinic have provided top-notch, affordable care to Connecticut families for decades. I congratulate them on winning these grants, which are a tribute to the hard work and dedication of all their employees.” “CHC’s like the Norwalk Community Health Center and Optimus Health Care and Southwest Community Health Center in Bridgeport serve thousands of 4th District residents who might not be able to get medical care anywhere else,” said Himes. “By increasing access to regular and preventative care for the people of Connecticut, we can prevent some of the worst health outcomes down the road, saving lives and limited resources in the health care system.” “These federal funds will allow for the expansion of critical services that benefit our communities in Danbury, Torrington, and Waterbury,” Esty said. “I commend Secretary Burwell for her continued support for health centers in communities across Connecticut, and I am confident that these funds will improve primary care services in our state so that these centers can continue successfully delivering high-quality care to those most in need.” ###
09.15.2015	Hartford, CT – The Connecticut Congressional delegation today applauded five federal grants from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ Supportive Services for Veteran Families program to support outreach, case management and other work in Connecticut to prevent veteran homelessness and to rapidly re-house those who become homeless. Last month, Connecticut announced that it had become the first state in the country to end chronic veteran homelessness, meaning that all known veterans experiencing chronic homelessness are either housed or are on an immediate path to permanent housing, and that the state will be able to rapidly place any additional veterans experiencing chronic homelessness on the path to permanent housing. This new funding will directly support that work by supporting the immediate interventions, outreach, case management and other work needed to find and serve veterans in need. “Ending chronic homelessness in veterans is a milestone that requires constant vigilance and relentless commitment, and we applaud these federal funds to support and sustain that vital effort in Connecticut. These funds will support the tireless, sustained efforts of advoates who made that initial achievement possible, and whose ongoing work we must continue to support moving forward," the delation stated. Grant recipients include: Community Renewal Team received $529,000 to support veterans in Hartford, Middlesex and New Haven counties Veterans, Inc. received $2 million to support veterans in Connecticut, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, Maine and Rhode Island The Workplace, Inc. received $1.28 million to support veterans in Fairfield and New Haven counties Operation Stand Down Rhode Island received $1.03 million to support veterans in the Norwich/New London area, as well as Rhode Island and Massachusetts Columbus House received $1.52 million to support veterans in New Haven, Middlesex and New London counties ###
09.11.2015	Washington – “On this day fourteen years ago, the United States suffered one of the worst attacks in our history. In the wake of tragedy, Congress—never more united—stood behind our President when our nation needed us the most. What a stark contrast to our division today. “We have a chance to come together again, not in grief but in hope. The possibility of a nuclear Iran poses a very real threat to Israel, the stability of the Middle East, and the United States and its allies. We have a sound opportunity before us to peacefully ensure Iran cannot acquire a nuclear weapon. “This is an historic moment decades in the making, and I commend our President for his patience, persistence, and steadfast commitment to denying Iran nuclear capability. He has paved a new path towards a more stable Middle East through diplomacy rather than war. “It saddens me to think that the Congress would allow fear and discord to triumph over hope. We were elected to serve the people, hear their concerns, give them our best, educated judgment, and then act. I’ve thoroughly reviewed the agreement. After speaking with the President, Secretary Kerry, Secretary Moniz, national security experts, scientists, and constituents alike, my conscience is clear: I believe this deal provides us with the best path forward to preventing a nuclear armed Iran. “I am proud to stand here in support of this agreement. This is a vote of conscience and while I respect those who have come to a different decision than me on this agreement, I am deeply disappointed in the division that has been fostered by the majority—driven by politics—on an issue so important to the security of the nation. “Fourteen years ago, Congress came together in solidarity. What a shame that today’s vote represents how divided we have become. This is a time to stand behind our leaders, to join together as one nation. Members who object to this agreement should find a way to strengthen our diplomatic approach, not create a partisan process designed to score political points. “We have come together in the past, and I believe we should do so again…on this day especially.” ###
09.11.2015	Washington – “September 11th remains a touchstone in our national conscious,” said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). “No one can forget the heartbreak we felt fourteen years ago. Today we remember those who lost their lives as well as the loved ones who still feel their loss. We honor the courage of the first responders—our firefighters, police officers, paramedics, and everyday citizens—who risked everything to save others. On this day especially, we renew our commitment not only to their sacrifices then, but to the suffering and health effects so many continue to face. “The attacks on 9/11 were meant to rip us apart. Instead, our nation came together—and we were stronger for it. Fourteen years later, division and discord threaten us anew. It is easy to forget that we remain one nation, and that each of us truly desires the best for our country and our future. Today in particular, we should strive for the warm courage of unity over partisan attacks. We should allow hope to triumph over fear.” Larson is the co-sponsor of H.R. 1786, the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Reauthorization Act, which would permanently extend access to critical health care to 9/11 responders and survivors across the country. ###
09.10.2015	Washington – “This markup today was completely unnecessary. Rather than working on a bill to provide certainty to U.S. and global markets by raising the debt ceiling, Republicans injected more instability into our economy by essentially admitting their willingness to default on our debt. The last time Republicans threatened to stop paying our bills, the S&P downgraded our credit rating. As a result—and combined with the government shutdown—the economy lost an estimated $24 billion in three months. With many Americans just getting back on their feet and countless more still looking for work, we cannot afford to play chicken with the debt ceiling again. “As my colleague Mr. Kind said today, ‘a default, is a default, is a default.’ While the Republicans want to create a façade of responsibility, in reality their actions are reckless. We risk catastrophe by not raising the debt ceiling. “Today was not about policy—it was about politics. A small but vocal minority in the Republican party are threatening to shut down the entire federal government over Planned Parenthood. They have consistently pushed their party leadership to default on our obligations. Rather than take responsibility by funding our government and raising the debt ceiling, the Republican leadership has decided to jeopardize the full faith and credit of the United States government to placate a small fraction of the GOP. “A democracy is dependent on the will of a majority, and most people believe it would be financially and morally irresponsible for the United States to default on its bills. Raising the debt ceiling should not be a partisan issue. Congress has acted many times under both Democratic and Republican Presidents to ensure our obligations are met, including 18 times under President Reagan, 8 times under President Clinton, and 7 times under President George W. Bush. “There are members of the Ways and Means Committee on both sides of the aisle who are serious, talented, and dedicated to the citizens of this country. Instead of wasting time discussing what would happen if we defaulted on our bills, we should do the responsible thing and raise the debt ceiling. It is time to move on to the important work we should be tackling in a bipartisan manner, like reforming the tax code and reducing the cost while improving the quality of healthcare.” ###
09.10.2015	Hartford, CT - U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Reps. Joe Courtney (D-2), Rosa DeLauro (D-3), Jim Himes (D-4), and Elizabeth Esty (D-5) today applauded $1.4 million in new federal funds for the Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection to help reduce the backlog of unsubmitted or untested sexual assault kits. Connecticut was among 20 jurisdictions receiving $41 million in aid through the federal National Sexual Assault Kit Initiative administered by the Department of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, Bureau of Justice Assistance. "This federal aid will expedite the processing of critical evidence in sexual assault cases. Survivors deserve quick resolution of their cases, and this federal investment will support Connecticut labs, police, prosecutors, and survivor support services in their critically important work," the delegation stated. ###
09.09.2015	Hartford, CT – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Reps. Joe Courtney (D-2), Rosa DeLauro (D-3), Jim Himes (D-4), and Elizabeth Esty (D-5) announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded $289,000 to 41 Connecticut cities and towns to purchase 769 bulletproof vests. Since its inception in 1999, the Bulletproof Vest Partnership program of the Department of Justice has awarded over $393 million in federal funds to local municipalities nationwide, helping to purchase more than one million life-saving bulletproof vests. “Our police officers put their lives on the line every day to protect ours, routinely responding to violent, dangerous encounters in brave service to their communities. Bulletproof vests are a life-saving line of defense that should be available to all law enforcement officers. Funding should never be a barrier to keeping our first responders safe, and we applaud the Justice Department for their longstanding investment in the safety of our police officers,” the delegation said. Towns receiving funding include Avon, Bridgewater, Bristol, Canton, Coventry, Cromwell, Darien, Enfield, Glastonbury, Granby, Greenwich, Groton, Guilford, Hamden, Madison, Manchester, Meriden, Milford, Monroe, Naugatuck, Newington, North Haven, Norwalk, Norwich, Plymouth, Prospect, Redding, Seymour, Simsbury, South Windsor, Stonington, Stratford, Trumbull, Vernon, West Hartford, West Haven, Westport, Wilton, Windsor Locks, Wolcott and Woodbridge. ###
09.08.2015	Originially published on Medium, on 09-08-15. Christopher Backemeyer, lead sanctions expert for the U.S. Department of State in the negotiations with Iran, recently joined me for a town hall forum at the University of Hartford. For well over two hours, he answered in great detail every question constituents asked, unraveling the complexities of the nuclear agreement with Iran. Many left reassured, some still skeptical, but all better informed. I support this agreement as the best path forward to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon. My position is clear, and I was pleased to have Mr. Backemeyer publicly underscore my rationale. I respect those who may arrive at a different conclusion, for ultimately this is a vote of conscience. History will bear out, our nation made one of its worst foreign policy decisions with the unilateral invasion of Iraq. We found ourselves isolated and alone, embroiled in a long, costly war that led to greater upheaval across an already unstable Middle East. Clearly the U.S. can no longer sustain a foreign policy that exceeds our military grasp. Mr. Backemeyer pointed out that sanctions from the United Nations’ Security Council are the hardest to secure. It took years to impose them on Iran, and they proved instrumental in bringing them to the table. These sanctions led to Iran’s willingness to curtail its nuclear program. If the U.S. now rejects this deal, it would signal to the world we are unwilling to be part of an international, diplomatic solution. Iran would have little incentive to curb its nuclear program, nor would our allies be inclined to continue sanctions. The President has stated unequivocally that he will not allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon. I agree. No one should doubt the will of this President to act hold Iran accountable. His hand is only strengthened with a deal?—?and weakened without one. Some have questioned if Iran can be trusted. This deal is not about trust?—?it is about verification. In examining the soundness of this agreement, I looked at the economic, scientific, and military perspectives. I met directly with the Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Treasury, Secretary of State, and the President. Under this agreement, Iran will submit to the most intrusive, stringent inspections ever imposed on any nation. If they cheat, we will know. The United States will have both the moral authority and the support of the world to take decisive action. Others worry that as the sanctions are lifted, Iran will use the influx of money to fund terrorist activities. I share this concern, but as Mr. Backemeyer and Secretary Jack Lew have indicated, there are strong reasons to believe extraordinary pressures on the Rouhani Administration will lead to investments in long-neglected domestic programs. That includes nearly half a trillion dollars in unfunded infrastructure, energy, and agricultural initiatives. The Iranian people elected President Rouhani to address economic concerns resulting from the sanctions, which is why Iran came to the table to negotiate on the nuclear program in the first place. Still others have argued that we should simply eliminate Iran’s nuclear program through a swift air campaign. Our military has said that while this may roll back the clock on their nuclear program, we would only eliminate their infrastructure?—?not their knowledge. Our intelligence reports indicate it would only be a few years before they would be back on their feet.Forcefully dismantling their infrastructure would require more than air strikes; it would mean boots on the ground. Though Iran’s actions may eventually dictate the use of force, this agreement assures a decisive and firm response from the entire world?—?a measure the United States military can deliver, strengthened by the resolve of our global allies. This agreement is not without risk, but it still represents the best path forward. I know not everyone shares this opinion. Prime Minister Netanyahu has made his objections clear. He has also said that whatever path America chooses, no daylight will ever come between our two nations. President Obama concurs: Israel is part of our family, and familial disagreements are bound to occur. But they will never divide us. The vote on the Iran deal is one of conscience, and my conscience is clear: diplomacy represents the best path forward. Follow Rep. Larson on Twitter and Facebook.
09.03.2015	Hartford, CT – On September 2, 2015, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced that the West Hartford Fire Department and Town of East Hartford Fire Department were among the recipients of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFG) awards. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) said the following: “Congratulations to both Chief John Oates and Chief Gary Allyn, as well as the dedicated men and women of the East Hartford and West Hartford Fire Departments,” said Larson. “Our firefighters provide a vital service to our communities, often at the risk of their own lives. With these grants, they will have access to additional equipment and training to maintain their fitness and improve their safety. As many of our firefighters continue to age and too many of our departments go understaffed, it is crucial that we invest in the people who throw themselves into harm’s way for the sake of our communities.” The Town of East Hartford Fire Department will use its$47,760 grant towards the purchase of physical fitness equipment to improve and maintain firefighter fitness. The West Hartford Fire Department will utilize its$147,710 award for specialized technical rescue training and equipment, including air bags, air powered cutters, and hydraulic rescue tools. ###
09.02.2015	Washington — Today, the Connecticut delegation sent a letter to Lieutenant General Tom Bostick, Commanding General and Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, in support of the recently-released Draft Dredged Material Management Plan (DMMP) and Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement for Long Island Sound. "As representatives from Connecticut, a state with 332 miles of coastline, coves, and harbors on Long Island Sound, we applaud the Army Corps for identifying new environmentally sound alternatives for the handling of dredging materials, such as beach nourishment and wetlands restoration… “In addition to the critical goal of protecting the Long Island Sound, access to a range of dredged material placement options is absolutely vital to our state’s economy – and that of the entire Long Island Sound region…If this dredging plan does not move forward, it is estimated that the region will see a fifteen percent dip in navigation-dependent economic activity revenue in the next two decades, and significant – and perhaps prohibitive – increases in costs for the private, commercial and federal stakeholders,” the delegation wrote. The Army Corps of Engineers opened a public comment period on the DMMP in August, extending through October 5th. Comments may be directed to U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, New England District (ATTN: LIS DMMP/PEIS Program Manager Meghan Quinn), 696 Virginia Road, Concord, MA 01742-2751. The full text of the letter follows: Dear Lt. General Bostick: We write today in support of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Draft Dredged Material Management Plan (DMMP) and Draft Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (PEIS) for Long Island Sound. As representatives from Connecticut, a state with 332 miles of coastline, coves, and harbors on Long Island Sound, we applaud the Army Corps for identifying new environmentally sound alternatives for the handling of dredging materials, such as beach nourishment and wetlands restoration. Knowing that only a small portion of dredged materials can be used on land beneficially, we also understand the continued need for open-water disposal options currently in use in Connecticut waters and support continuing this disposal method for fine-grained materials suitable for open-water placement. As members of the Congressional Long Island Sound Caucus, we have long been advocates for protecting and rehabilitating this critical natural, recreation and economic resource. To that end, we commend the Army Corps for identifying a variety of alternative management options and would like to see the Army Corps pursue beneficial use alternatives whenever feasible. In addition to the critical goal of protecting the Long Island Sound, access to a range of dredged material placement options is absolutely vital to our state’s economy – and that of the entire Long Island Sound region. According to the DMMP, economic activities that utilize Long Island Sound waterways contribute more than $9 billion annually in economic output. Additionally, these economic activities support more than 55,000 jobs in the Long Island Sound region. As important, our region is home to a range of federal and military facilities dependent on the viability of accessible and cost-effective placement options. If this dredging plan does not move forward, it is estimated that the region will see a fifteen percent dip in navigation-dependent economic activity revenue in the next two decades, and significant – and perhaps prohibitive – increases in costs for the private, commercial and federal stakeholders. With Connecticut’s newly-minted Port Authority officially coming into existence on July 1, 2015, our state is poised for resurgence in the maritime industry. As noted by the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development, imports at deep-water ports in Bridgeport, New Haven, and New London have decreased by 80 percent since 2006. Establishment of the new Port Authority, and increased focus on strategic investments needed to expand our major ports creates a significant opportunity to turn this trend around, create jobs, and grow Connecticut’s maritime economy. This, however, will be contingent on a continued effort to maintain our channels and harbors properly. The DMMP and PEIS are the result of years of research and planning by the Army Corps and the Environmental Protection Agency, through constructive consultation with the States of Connecticut, New York and Rhode Island. They provide a comprehensive management framework of environmentally responsible and cost-effective disposal solutions for the varying types of dredged materials—specifically outlining plans for a myriad of federal dredging projects in the Long Island Sound region. Connecticut has been responsibly dredging using open-water placement for 35years and we are pleased that the DMMP, paired with sustainable on-land solutions for suitable dredged materials, will provide the Long Island Sound region with a balanced approach for future waterway maintenance projects. Thank you for your consideration of our views on this important topic. We look forward to the timely approval of the DMMP and continued constructive engagement with stakeholders across the Long Island Sound region on managing dredging needs in the future. Sincerely, Joe Courtney, Member of CongressRosa DeLauro, Co-Chair, Long Island Sound Caucus, Member of CongressChristopher S. Murphy, United States SenatorRichard Blumenthal, United States SenatorJames A. Himes, Member of CongressJohn B. Larson, Member of CongressElizabeth H. Esty, Member of Congress ###
08.31.2015	Hartford, CT - On Thursday, August 27th, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted a forum at the University of Hartford with Chris Backemeyer of the U.S. Department of State. Mr. Backemeyer is the Deputy Coordinator for Sanctions Policy and served as the lead sanctions expert for the United States during the P5+1 negotiations with Iran. “It is always a privilege to hold these forums and speak directly with my constituents,” said Larson. “I was especially pleased to have Chris join me, and I want to thank him and the State Department for their participation. This is a historic moment for the United States and the world, and it is crucial to make sure everyone has the chance to learn about the nuances and implications of the agreement with Iran. I truly believe diplomacy offers our best path forward, and I know many of my constituents left the forum feeling the same.” The full forum is available online at CT-N at https://www.ctn.state.ct.us/ctnplayer.asp?odID=11917. ###
08.27.2015	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has been designated by the federal government as being the first state in the nation to have ended chronic homelessness among veterans. Last year, Governor Malloy announced several initiatives aimed at combatting veteran homelessness with the goal of ending homelessness among veterans by the end of 2015. The state has since made major investments in housing, becoming a national leader for its work. Ending chronic homelessness among veterans is a milestone for Connecticut in its efforts to end homelessness entirely among veterans by the end of the year. Connecticut is one of just a handful of states designated for, and participating in, the Zero:2016 initiative, which aims to end all chronic homelessness by the end of next year. Today's announcement means that all known veterans experiencing chronic homelessness are either housed or are on an immediate path to permanent housing, and that the state will be able to rapidly place any veteran who newly experiences chronic homelessness on the path to permanent housing. Chronic homelessness is defined as an individual with a disability who has been homeless for a period of at least one year or has experienced four separate episodes of homelessness in the past three years. "No one deserves to live without housing - especially our veterans. They have sacrificed so much for the safety of our nation, and it is our moral obligation to ensure they receive the support they need when they come home," Congressman John Larson (CT-1) said. "I commend Governor Malloy, the Department of Veterans' Affairs, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development for their commitment to our veterans. Never before has any state been able to declare an end to chronic veteran homelessness. This is a historic moment, and one that makes me incredibly proud to call Connecticut home." "We have set a high bar - and with today's announcement, we're on our way to achieving it. We are truly a national leader on these issues, because our veterans deserve access to housing, quality health care, education, and career opportunities. It's our obligation to deliver for them, and that's just what we're doing as a state," Governor Malloy said. "We established this bold goal to end homelessness among our veterans not because it's good for our economy and makes communities stronger, but because it's morally right. Ending chronic veteran homelessness is just another step forward and another marker of progress towards reaching our goal of ending all veteran homelessness by the end of this year." "President Obama has made a bold goal to end veteran homelessness by the end of this year, and states and cities across the country are committed to making sure every Veteran has a safe and stable place to call home. Here in Connecticut, you've responded to that challenge by helping the most vulnerable homeless Veterans find permanent housing," U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert A. McDonald said. "Americans understand and believe, as I do, that no one who has fought for this country should have to fight to keep a roof over their head. This progress would not be possible without the partnerships that have been built here in Connecticut and across the nation; partnerships across the federal government, with state and local governments, with non-profit organizations and with the private sector. This is not a static challenge; it is an ongoing challenge and we will keep at it because that is what the men and women who have served our nation have earned and deserve." Connecticut reached this milestone through the coordinated leadership of the Reaching Home Veterans Workgroup, an unprecedented collaboration among key stakeholders around this state, which includes: the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), the Connecticut Department of Housing (DOH), the Connecticut Heroes Project (CTHP), the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Connecticut's Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) grantees, the Connecticut Coalition to End Homelessness (CCEH), the Connecticut Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA), and the Partnership for Strong Communities - all working together with other community-based providers. "The historic work being done in Connecticut to combat homelessness, especially among veterans, is having a tremendous impact on people's lives," Lt. Governor Nancy Wyman said. "We are committed to ensuring that veterans and their families who are in need have access to the programs and services that will help rebuild their lives, rejoin the workforce, and successfully establish themselves in our communities." The designation by the federal government comes in response to the state's application to the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness, which was reviewed by the U.S. Department of Veterans' Affairs, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and other federal agencies and organizations after a report was submitted in June. During the 2015 point-in-time count, only 41 veterans experiencing homelessness were counted on the streets or in other places not intended for habitation - a decrease of 45 percent since the last unsheltered count in 2013. Through Connecticut's efforts, nearly 300 veterans previously experiencing chronic homelessness have been permanently housed. The primary resource for housing veterans experiencing chronic homelessness are vouchers provided through the Department of Housing and Urban Development-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. The HUD-VASH program combines rental assistance from HUD with case management and clinical services from the VA. Connecticut applied for and received 54 additional HUD-VASH vouchers in the fall of 2014 and also received another 75 vouchers this past spring 2015, bringing our statewide total to 755. The federal rental assistance provided through this partnership are in addition to the state RAP vouchers that have been set-aside for veteran use. Connecticut's recent investments in affordable housing totals almost one billion dollars. Since 2011, the state has created 6,150 affordable housing units, with an additional 2,908 affordable units under construction, and another 5,255 additional units committed to funding. "Governor Malloy has been a tireless advocate for the homeless community and I am proud that he has made housing such a central part of his administration,"Connecticut Department of Housing Commissioner Evonne Klein said. "We are fortunate in Connecticut to have built a strong collaboration of partners all working together to end veteran homelessness. What we know is that when we address an individual's housing needs it will have a lasting and positive impact on that person's overall well-being for years to come." Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs Commissioner Sean Connolly said, "This is a proud moment for Connecticut Veterans as the culmination of hard work and true determination by our leadership has brought us to this point in history where we have ended chronic Veteran homelessness in the state. We will continue collaboration efforts and approach Veteran homelessness with a multipronged strategy of support services, keeping in mind the very real and very attainable goal to end it once and for all." "This important milestone reflects a remarkable and relentless commitment to combating veteran homelessness and marks a significant step. I commend the advocates and leaders who made it possible," U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "But now is not the time to rest on our laurels or unfurl a 'mission accomplished' banner - we must recommit to continuing this fight together. Combating the underlying causes of homelessness - lack of jobs, skill training, health care, particularly treatment for post-traumatic stress and other invisible wounds of war - remains an unaccomplished goal. We can, and will, do more to help our veterans." "Today's announcement is the result of years of hard work on the ground to end chronic homelessness among veterans," U.S. Senator Chris Murphy said. "We've come a long way from when I brought federal officials to Waterbury in 2009 to show them that veterans were living under bridges and in the woods. This is a significant victory for the state of Connecticut. We invested our resources in the right programs - from the HUD-VASH and other federal programs, to better access to health care and social services - and we have proven that when federal and state policymakers collaborate with service providers and advocates, the outcomes can be life-changing. Ending chronic homelessness for veterans has been a top priority for me since I was first elected to Congress, because the brave men and women of our armed forces - who have served and sacrificed for our country - should never be without a home. I've always said that one homeless veteran is one too many, and today's announcement means that this goal has become closer to a reality. Connecticut's story of success should be a model to end chronic veterans homelessness across America." "Ensuring that no veteran goes without housing after returning home from the battlefield is part of the sacred compact we have with those who defend our freedom. Governor Malloy and the State of Connecticut deserve praise for their dogged efforts to earn this significant designation," Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2) said. "This is a vital issue on which Connecticut leaders will maintain their vigilance, and I will continue my efforts in this field, which included working with veterans advocates for supportive housing in Jewett City." "As a nation, we have an obligation to ensure that, at the very least, the brave men and women who serve our country have a place to call home,"Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) said. "We have to be sure we are doing everything possible to facilitate the smoothest possible transition from the battlefield to civilian life. It makes our communities stronger, gives families a solid foundation and is the moral thing to do. Today's announcement is thanks to the people in Connecticut who are working tirelessly to end veteran homelessness." "Today's announcement is great news for Connecticut's veterans that put their lives on the line to protect our country and way of life. We know that with safe, stable housing in place, these brave men and women will get the healthcare, education and jobs they have earned and deserve," Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) said. "Connecticut has taken a bold and comprehensive approach to fighting homelessness, setting ambitious goals and working across all levels of government, housing authorities and private organizations to reach them. I applaud Governor Malloy on today's achievement and commit to working tirelessly until all veterans live in a place they can call home." "In Connecticut, we are doing the right thing for our veterans who have suffered with chronic homelessness, and I commend Governor Malloy for making this critical issue a key priority," Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) said. "Today's news marks a historic turning point for our state and for our veterans. Our veterans have sacrificed so much serving our country, and they deserve access to benefits that they have earned, including housing and high-quality healthcare. In Congress, I will continue working to ensure that all veterans have the support they need to live healthy, successful lives." "Today we are celebrating what can happen when federal, state and communities work together to better care for our citizens," Dr. Laurie Harkness, Founder and Director of VA Connecticut Healthcare System's Errera Community Care Center, said. "VA CT and its homeless programs have been and are pleased to be working with such a rich array of accomplished and committed partners to address the disgraceful issue of homelessness among our country's Veterans. We are proud of our results as we again lead the country in addressing complicated social issues." ###
08.27.2015	Hartford, CT – Today, U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Sens. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Reps. Joe Courtney (D-CT2), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT3), Jim Himes (D-CT4), and Elizabeth Esty (D-CT5) announced that nearly $10 million in federal funds has been secured to help protect Connecticut families and children from the health and safety hazards of lead-based paint. Awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes, the State of Connecticut Department of Housing received $3.7 million in Lead Reduction Demonstration grants and the cities of New Haven and Waterbury were awarded a combined nearly $6.5 million to help with the cities’ efforts to combat hazards – specifically in housing – from lead-based paint. “These federal funds will be instrumental in assuring safe and healthy living conditions for all Connecticut residents – especially children. The HUD grants recognize the critical need to address the serious public health hazards caused by lead-based paint. Connecticut has a significant number of older housing units where lead paint was used. These important funds allow for repairs to housing units and lead-based paint exposure education, outreach, and treatment. We applaud HUD for helping Connecticut and the cities of Waterbury and New Haven address this critical issue and investing in the health and safety of the children and communities. We will continue to advocate for additional future funding for the health of Connecticut’s residents,”the Connecticut delegation said. In June, the delegation wrote to HUD’s Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes in support of their state’s application for a grant to help continue efforts to reduce the risk of lead exposure for children of low income families in Connecticut. Earlier that month, Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and Representatives DeLauro and Esty wrote to HUD Secretary Julian Castro in support of New Haven and Waterbury’s applications for funding to help abate lead in housing units in the cities. The HUD grants will reduce the number of lead-poisoned children and protect families by targeting health hazards in homes with significant lead and/or other home health and safety hazards. ###
08.26.2015	East Hartford, CT – “Manufacturing has long been the lynchpin in Connecticut’s economy, but we have increasingly seen the current workforce age while good jobs in advanced manufacturing go unfilled. I commend Goodwin College, United Technologies, the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, and the International Association of Machinists for coming together to educate tomorrow’s workforce today. This new Business and Manufacturing Center will ensure our current workforce remains at the top of their game by providing training in the latest techniques while also preparing our younger students for exciting positions in rapidly developing fields. This collaboration between academia, industry, and labor leaders ensures Connecticut will remain at the forefront in aerospace and other advanced manufacturing fields for a long time to come.” ###
08.14.2015	Hartford, CT – “Eighty years ago today, Franklin Delano Roosevelt laid a foundation of economic security for this country that has stood the test of time and continues to improve the lives of millions of Americans who receive benefits. Social Security still provides the most comprehensive retirement, disability, and survivor’s benefits in the nation. It is a lifeline for millions of seniors, especially at a time when many are still struggling in the aftermath of the recession. We owe it to the hardworking men and women who paid their dues and earned their benefits to keep Social Security strong for another eighty years and beyond.” In March of this year, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to cut taxes, enhance benefits, and ensure Social Security remains solvent through the end of the century. His proposal currently has 67 co-sponsors and has been endorsed by Social Security Works and the National Committee to Preserve Social Security & Medicare. ###
08.12.2015	Hartford, CT – Since the announcement of the historic agreement reached between the United States, our global allies, and Iran, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) has listened to opinions and concerns from those on both sides of the issue. After careful consideration of all the facts, Larson endorsed the agreement on July 31. “Obviously this is a complex issue, and there is a significant amount of information to be debated and considered,” said Larson. “In the hopes of providing more information and gathering additional feedback from constituents, I will be hosting my second forum on the Iran Nuclear Agreement on Thursday, August 27. “Though there are risks involved no matter the course of action, I firmly believe this agreement is our best chance to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. I know some have expressed serious concerns about trusting Iran, but this deal is not about trust—it’s about verification. The information I received through the Congressional briefing process assures me that the United States has the scientific, economic, and military superiority to enforce this agreement, and it in no way limits our ability to continue to hold the regime accountable for a wider range of issues outside the scope of the agreement. Should Iran attempt to violate the terms, we would have the support and approval of our allies abroad. “On the other hand, rejecting this deal would leave Iran with little incentive to curb its nuclear program. It is very likely that the United States would once more face military operations in the Middle East. We have been down this road before, and we have seen where it leads. Too often that means putting the brave men and women who serve our country in harm’s way.” In the weeks since the announcement of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPA), Larson has attended numerous briefings both classified and otherwise with officials in the State Department and intelligence community. He has also spoken directly with President Obama, and gathered feedback from constituents and advocacy groups on both sides of this agreement. A timeline of his recent work on this issue can be found here. The above event is open press. ###
08.10.2015	Hartford, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) marked the upcoming 80th anniversary of Social Security, which was signed into law on August 14, 1935 by President Roosevelt. Larson joined local advocates and constituents in Hartford to celebrate the current and future success of this vital program. “Social Security is a lifeline for millions of Americans,” said Larson. “It has been the bedrock of American retirement for 80 years. You paid for it, you earned it, but some lawmakers would cripple this program with cuts to benefits or hikes to the retirement age. They would have you work harder for less. There's a better way. No one should be forced to retire into poverty or work until they drop. The hardworking men and women who paid into this program all their lives deserve the security of knowing the nation has their back come retirement, disability, or the loss of a loved one. We can keep Social Security strong for another 80 years and beyond.” “Congressman Larson's Bill to strengthen and preserve Social Security is an important step not only for today's seniors, but for our children and grandchildren and needs to be supported in Congress,” said Bette Marafino, President of the Connecticut Alliance for Retired Americans. In March of 2015, Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act to cut taxes, enhance benefits, and ensure Social Security remains solvent into the next century. ###
07.29.2015	Washington – “While I am loath to support another stopgap measure to prevent a lapse in funding for the Highway Trust Fund, this current three-month extension includes vital funding for the VA healthcare system. I voted in favor of this bill to ensure the VA is fully equipped to provide the care our veterans desperately need. I was also proud to see the inclusion of a measure I have long championed to promote clean energy by lowering taxes on natural gas fuel. It is my sincere hope that Congress will now use the next three months to make the hard choices and pass a long-term transportation bill to fund our highways, roads and bridges.” ###
07.29.2015	Washington – Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Tom Reed (NY-23), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) introduced legislation to explore how Medicare can better treat the most complex patients. H.R. 3244, the Providing Innovative Care for Complex Cases Demonstration Act of 2015, provides complex patients with high-quality, highly-coordinated care. These plans provide far more flexibility and breadth of coverage than traditional Medicare plans and will lead to better health. It incentivizes collaboration among payers and providers and focuses on integrated approaches that improve quality and patient outcomes and experience. The result is higher quality care and lower costs. “When it comes to healthcare, no one should slip through the cracks,” said Larson. “This bill will provide many of our most vulnerable Americans access to a state of the art plan to coordinate their care, provide access to best in class providers, and cover services not typically available through Medicare—all while reducing costs to our health care system. It’s crucial that we come together to make improvements to our healthcare system in a bipartisan manner. I commend Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her leadership, as well as my colleagues Rep. Schrader and Rep. Reed. This is an innovative approach to providing the best possible care for Medicare beneficiaries with chronic health conditions.” “This common sense, bipartisan legislation creates a coordinated care program for the sickest Medicare patients,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It will lead to better health outcomes for those patients and make the system more efficient overall.” “I care about the quality of life for our senior citizens and this bill will help improve their lives in the long run,” said Reed. “As the cost of medical care continues to increase, it’s only fair that we begin looking for solutions to ensure the seniors who need care the most get the best possible, patient-centered care without cutting corners.” “We’ve seen in many instances that coordinated care programs provide patients with better care, while reducing costs,” said Schrader. “This innovative program will provide seniors with a new avenue to receive high quality care, tailored to their specific needs, at a lower cost, through the Medicare system. This bipartisan effort is a pragmatic approach to improving Medicare so it better serves beneficiaries.” In 2010, the costliest 10 percent of Medicare beneficiaries accounted for almost 60 percent of annual fee-for-service (FFS) spending. This population is more likely to have chronic conditions, such as chronic kidney disease, heart failure, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), while more than half (51 percent) have five or more comorbid conditions. This population is also more likely to be dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Right now these beneficiaries are on their own to navigate the health care system. In the proposed program, each beneficiary would be served by an interdisciplinary care management team and a dedicated health professional to ensure they are getting the right care they need at the right time. In this program patients will have more benefits, lower out-of-pocket costs, high quality standards, enrollment and beneficiary protections, risk adjustment, and an integrated care model. ###
07.29.2015	Washington – Today, U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-2), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) announced that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has awarded the State of Connecticut over $12 million in federal funding to enhance the capacity of state and local emergency responders to prepare for, prevent, respond to, and recover from potential terrorist attacks, major natural disasters, and other emergencies. “At a time when our nation faces unprecedented challenges abroad, our local first responders and state security keep us secure here at home. Thanks to the support of FEMA, our first responders will have the resources they need to prepare for disasters and ensure the safety of our local communities,”the Connecticut delegation said. “These grants are exactly the kind of proactive federal investment we should be making to make our communities more resilient and stop devastation before it occurs, and we will continue to work hard to bring more funding back home to keep our state safe.” A full list of awards follows: Type of Grant Agency Grant Amount State Homeland Security Grant Programs Statewide $3,978,000 Emergency Management Performance Grants Statewide $4,965,015 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Branford Fire Department $34,851 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound City of New Haven $260,750 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound City of Norwalk, Connecticut $17,908 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Connecticut Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection $258,590 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Cross Sound Ferry Services, Inc. $25,000 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound ELECTRIC BOAT CORPORATION $217,500 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Milford Police Department $18,000 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Sprague Bridgeport $24,012 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound The Guilford Fire Department $24,999 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound The Town of Greenwich Police Department $71,213 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Town of East Lyme $73,553 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Town of Fairfield $228,346 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Town of Stratford $37,500 Port Security Grant Program – Long Island Sound Town of Waterford $84,780 Transit Security Grant Program Connecticut Department of Transportation $2,048,216 Intercity Bus Security Grant Program Dattco Tours, Inc. $53,524 ###
07.28.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognized the 90th anniversary of Pratt & Whitney. The company was incorporated on July 22, 1925. “For ninety years, Pratt & Whitney has been a driving force in manufacturing research and innovation,” said Larson. “My father—like so many others in Connecticut—worked for Pratt & Whitney for most of his life. I’ve seen firsthand their impact not just on our economy, but on hardworking families throughout the state. Pratt & Whitney continues to invest in our community, providing its employees with greater access to a college education. They truly serve as a model for corporate excellence. “It’s been my great pleasure to help secure Pratt & Whitney as the sole provider of engines for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. Here’s to ninety more years of keeping the eagle flying.” Larson also took to the House Floor to deliver a one-minute speech commending Pratt & Whitney’s impact throughout the First District. Watch the speech at https://youtu.be/VQp3rfFHu_s or click above: ###
07.22.2015	Washington – “The latest Trustees Report confirms that Social Security is on strong footing for the next several decades, but faces a long-term shortfall that Congress can and should address. The report underscores just how important Social Security benefits are for retirees, the disabled, and survivors. It would be reckless to inflict needless benefit cuts when there are common sense ways to keep the system solvent for generations to come. “The Social Security 2100 Act—which now has over 60 cosponsors in the House—would preserve Social Security through the end of this century while enhancing the program’s vital benefits. An independent analysis by Social Security’s Chief Actuary confirmed the 2100 Act’s solvency. Social Security is not an entitlement – it is insurance that Americans pay into through years of hard work. Congress should never cut the benefits that Americans have earned.” The full 2015 Annual Report can be found here. ###
07.20.2015	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted Rep. Bill Shuster (PA-09), Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, in Connecticut's First District to highlight the need for investment in the area's bridges, roads, and transit systems. They began the day at Coltsville for an overview of the eroding dykes and levies along the Connecticut River before traveling to Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford to address access and egress to the expanding campus. Finally, they concluded at Union Station for a brief discussion and press conference on high speed rail and long-term infrastructure. "It is always a pleasure to bring Chairman Shuster to the District," said Larson. He understands that states and communities need a reliable partner in the federal government to make crucial repairs on our roads and put America back to work. With Coltsville's new designation as a National Historical Park and the recent groundbreakings on three new major facilities at UTC and Pratt & Whitney, there are many exciting developments in the area that call for new investments in infrastructure. Today, we demonstrated that there is a strong bipartisan will to pass a long-term transportation bill that is necessary to support our communities, improve public safety, and spur job creation." “Helping maintain and improve our nation’s infrastructure is a key federal responsibility, done in partnership with state and local governments and the private sector," said Shuster. "Today’s events clearly demonstrated the importance of responsibly investing in this infrastructure, and I appreciate Congressman Larson for inviting my colleagues from Connecticut and me for a firsthand look at some of the region’s transportation needs." "This country’s infrastructure woes do not stop with rail and highways," said Rep. Rosa Delauro (CT-03). "They extend to ports, aviation, electricity wires, and telephone and broadband lines. Existing funding at the federal, state, and local level already lags way behind this massive and increasingly urgent need. If we are going to get back on track, we must stop applying Band-Aid after Band-Aid and start thinking creatively about how to fund the required investment in a sustainable, long-term way. I was proud to join Congressman Larson, in welcoming Chairman Shuster back to Connecticut to discuss this critical issue for Connecticut and our nation." “According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, 73 percent of Connecticut roads are in poor or mediocre condition. Thirty-five percent of Connecticut’s bridges are structurally deficient, functionally obsolete, or both. A great nation does not respond to crises with duct tape; a great nation leads with bold action,” said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5). “The time to act is now. I thank Chairman Shuster for taking time today to visit our state to discuss these urgent issues. As a member of the Transportation Committee, I will continue to call on House leadership to work with us to pass a long-term highway bill this year and invest in America’s infrastructure.” ###
07.15.2015	Washington – “The nation’s crumbling roads, bridges, and transit systems are in dire need of repair, and we cannot make these critical investments without the certainty of long-term infrastructure bill. It’s time for Congress to do its job and make the hard decisions. “There is no reason Congress should continue to kick the can on infrastructure. Sensible, long-term funding will help keep our roads and bridges safe while putting Americans back to work. We have now gone six years without a long-term transportation bill. It’s time to stop holding infrastructure hostage and bring a long-term, fully funded bill to the floor. It will pass.” ###
07.14.2015	Washington – “I commend President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and Secretary Moniz for taking this tremendous step towards addressing one of the biggest international security threats – a nuclear-armed Iran. This is a historic moment, and I look forward to reviewing these details and discussing them with my constituents. To that end, I will be hosting a forum on Sunday, July 19th at the West Hartford Town Hall. “However, this agreement should not diminish our need for vigilance as we continue to confront Iran on other issues. Much like an arms control agreement, the announced deal is limited only to ensuring Iran will no longer be capable of acquiring a nuclear weapon. Iran still retains a troubling human rights record and remains a major destabilizing force in the region, and we must continue to press for wider reforms.” ###
07.11.2015	Washington – "Today marks the 20th Anniversary of Europe's worst massacre since World War II. My thoughts go out to the families of the more than 8,000 slain in eastern Bosnia, many of whom have found a new home in the Connecticut's 1st Congressional District. We still feel the tragic echoes of this devastating massacre even now, as additional victims continue to be identified. "Today I join the Bosnian community in Hartford and abroad in remembering those who perished. They shall not be forgotten." Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) is a member of the Congressional Caucus on Bosnia and one of the original cosponsors of a resolution marking the 20th anniversary of Srebrenica Genocide (H Res 301), which passed July 8th by unanimous consent in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
07.10.2015	Washington – “The 21st Century Cures Act represents a bold step forward for biomedical research and the treatment of disease. Increasing funding to the National Institute of Health (NIH) will not only encourage medical breakthroughs to keep Americans healthier and potentially even save lives, but also spur the economy and support over 400,000 jobs across the United States. Passing this bipartisan legislation demonstrates the ability of Congress to put the health and wellbeing of all Americans above partisan squabbles. I am proud to cosponsor this bill, and I commend my colleagues for making this sensible investment in the NIH. “Furthermore, improvements to FDA approval processes and the development of next generation treatments will provide Americans with the very best tools to combat sickness and disease. I am proud to support the 21st Century Cures Act and the work it does to safeguard the health of our citizens. “This bill will allow the NIH to increase the amount of research projects it supports and diversify its biomedical workforce. Including researchers from underrepresented communities will ensure the NIH accounts for the feedback of great minds from an array of backgrounds. This broader perspective both reflects the rich makeup of the nation and provides a more nuanced consideration of vital research.” ###
07.08.2015	Hartford, CT - U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Governor Dannel P. Malloy today announced that the State of Connecticut has successfully been designated by the Obama Administration under the Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership (IMCP) initiative. With this designation, Connecticut will receive coordinated support from eleven federal agencies with access to more than $1 billion in federal funding dedicated to economic development and the resurgence of manufacturing in the United States. Connecticut is one of 12 applicants to earn the designation. IMCP is a federal program designed to strengthen manufacturing capabilities nationwide by supporting states with long-term economic development strategies. "Connecticut has a long history on the frontlines of manufacturing innovation and development-driven in large part by our universities, community colleges, and technical schools," Congressman John Larson said. "This ecosystem of small and large manufactures, academia, and groups like the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology leaves Connecticut uniquely qualified to train the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators. I was so proud to visit Goodwin College with Vice President Biden to showcase how our schools continue to prepare students for exciting jobs in advanced manufacturing. With this IMCP designation, Connecticut can continue to grow its workforce and push into new frontiers in the aerospace and shipbuilding industries." "This federal designation recognizes - and strengthens - Connecticut's leadership position in advanced manufacturing, specifically in our aerospace and shipbuilding industries," Governor Malloy said. "With this designation and the federal funds supporting economic development programs in manufacturing, the state can accelerate and enhance our initiatives to boost innovation, worker skills, supply chain capabilities, infrastructure investment and job creation." Connecticut was chosen largely based on the strength of its aerospace and defense shipbuilding industries for more than 100 years. Homegrown companies such as Pratt & Whitney and Electric Boat have helped contribute to the development of these industries, and today there is strong industry collaboration that will be a key to future economic and job growth. Leveraging the strong capabilities of our universities and entities like CCAT, the smaller supply chain companies that reside in the state also are seeing tremendous benefits from locating in the state. In addition, the state was recognized for its comprehensive economic development plan for this sector that delineates the roles that individual communities and public-private partnerships play in carrying out the strategy. The plan focuses on five areas in particular: building supplier networks; building a pipeline of capable workers for the future; infrastructure and site development; increasing trade and investment; and improving manufacturing operations and access to capital. "This designation - one of only 12 nationwide - is a powerful recognition of the ingenuity and vitality of Connecticut's aerospace and shipbuilding industry and its skilled and talented workforce," U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "This federal designation - with our support - will help ensure that our vital manufacturing community continues to expand and innovate with the support of strong educational partnerships, cross-industry collaboration and outreach. The Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership designation brings with it strategic federal guidance and access to new programs and funding opportunities. I will continue to work closely with manufacturers in the region to ensure the success and this promising partnership." "Manufacturing is the backbone of our state's economy, and today is a testament to the continued success and potential of our aerospace and shipbuilding industries," U.S. Senator Chris Murphy said. "Last year, we joined with the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development to seek this designation because we knew it would help us win more federal grants, job training dollars, and new business opportunities at home and abroad. The Investing in Manufacturing Communities Partnership designation is great news for Connecticut manufacturing jobs, and I look forward to working with the Governor, Commissioner Smith, the entire congressional delegation, and manufacturers both small and large across our state to take advantage of this exciting new partnership." Congressman Joe Courtney said, "Thanks to concerted efforts among our community colleges, companies, officials, and workforce board, Eastern Connecticut's Manufacturing Pipeline is delivering workers with top-quality training and skills to our region's advanced manufacturers, as we demonstrated to Labor Secretary Perez during his recent visit. Electric Boat and companies in the submarine supply chain need a workforce with the skills to produce some of the most advanced submarines in the world, and as demand grows, this strategy will continue to pay dividends for our state's economy." "I recently met with the New England Council, and they said the number one concern for New England manufacturers is whether they are going to have an educated work force. At the same time, I hear from families who are worried about whether their kids will have jobs," said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty. "This federal designation invests in Connecticut workers by allowing us to do a better job connecting the dots to further grow our cutting edge manufacturing community. We need to keep investing in our most important resource - our people." "As the 'Arsenal of the Republic,' Connecticut has a long and proud history in manufacturing," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro said. "Establishment of the Connecticut Advanced Manufacturing Communities Region will help promote our talented workforce and entrepreneurial businesses. Congratulations to the Department of Economic and Community Development for leading this effort. I look forward to seeing the fruits of their labor." "It is my sincere belief that, given the proper training and resources, Connecticut workers can out-build and out-compete the rest of the world," Congressman Jim Himes said. "It is a testament to the cooperative work between local government, businesses, community leaders and others that Connecticut was recognized with this designation. It is another step forward toward revitalizing our communities and our state, and I am proud of the hard work that went into getting us to this point." Leaders in government, academia, business community and nonprofit organizations were vital partners contributing to the plan and will be partners in its successful implementation. ###
06.26.2015	Washington – “I commend the Supreme Court today for striking down state bans prohibiting same-sex marriage. America was founded on the principles of liberty and the pursuit of happiness. All Americans now have the liberty to marry who they love—a momentous achievement that just a few decades ago seemed impossible. “Throughout history, we have too often seen discrimination based on race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, and more. A single court decision cannot erase the struggles of the past, but today’s ruling represents a tremendous step towards realizing our nation’s long-stated goal: that all Americans deserve access to the same rights and freedoms. While the fight against discrimination continues, I am excited to celebrate this victory. I commend Justice Kennedy for taking such an obvious and progressive stance. “Congratulations to every American today. I am proud to live in a country that continues to call for true equality.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington – “I am pleased to see the United States Supreme Court reaffirm the right of all eligible Americans to receive premium tax credits towards health insurance. There is no reason any American should be forced to go without health care, and the Affordable Care Act (ACA) will continue to protect access to dependable, life-saving coverage. “This latest ruling should be a sign that the ACA is here to stay. In the five years since its inception, more than 16 million Americans have gained coverage. Now is the time to bring the country together to improve our health care system for the good of all Americans. Everyone has the right to affordable, dependable health coverage. It is now the responsibility of Congress to move forward in finding ways to continue to reduce costs and improve quality throughout the healthcare system. “As Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote, ‘Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them.’ I commend Justice Roberts for restoring the people’s faith in the Supreme Court as a nonpartisan institution. This ruling puts politics aside in favor of the health and well-being of the American people—exactly as the Supreme Court is meant to do.” ###
06.23.2015	Originially published in the Hartford Courant on June 14, 2015 It's time to normalize diplomatic relations with Cuba. I recently visited the island with a congressional delegation. Cuba is steeped in tradition but stifled by its government and the U.S. embargo. Modernity and technology have largely passed it by. The Internet exists in small pockets. Cellphones are accessible only for a select few, and then at limited speeds and connectivity. The perseverance of the Cuban people, however, is remarkable. Cuba is one of the most literate countries in the world, renowned for its teachers and doctors. Their thirst for entrepreneurial freedom — strikingly similar to the evolution of China and Vietnam (both nations with whom we trade) — is evident. President Barack Obama is right to pursue normalization of relations. Cubans in the United States are conflicted. They yearn for the freedom that trade and prosperity can bring to their native land while remembering how they toiled and suffered under brutal conditions, and risked their lives to find safety, security and new opportunities in America. Families splintered, and many who still remain on the island have loved ones in Florida, Connecticut, New Jersey and elsewhere. Those who remain struggle to eke out a living. There can be no downplaying or ignoring the responsibility of the Cuban government's role in the plight of its people. To echo the sentiments of my colleague, Rep. Albio Sires, D- N.J., too many men, women and children lost their lives. Too many more suffer in silence for fear of retaliation and suppression. Some risk their lives on a dangerous exodus to Florida. Others rely on black markets to provide for them what their country cannot. All deserve a chance for prosperity and a life free of oppression and fear. That is why we must resume diplomatic dialogue and pursue steps to reconnect Cubans with the modern world. The rest will follow. Decades-long constraints limited the prosperity of the regime, but also had a devastating effect on basic livelihood of its people. Cuba has tremendous potential. This was underscored at their 2015 biennial: a convergence of art and science. Cuba has perhaps no greater champion than Cardinal Jaime Lucas Ortega y Alamino, whose unassuming manner and quiet demeanor belie the pivotal role he played in the election of Pope Francis and the pope's eventual meeting with President Barack Obama about Cuba's potential. As only the second Cuban cardinal in the Catholic Church, Cardinal Ortega has seen firsthand how the Cuban people have suffered. A normalization of relations between our two countries does not mean we simply forget Cuba's often problematic record on human rights. But we also cannot address those problems by ignoring Cuba or the plight of its people, who otherwise will continue to struggle for generations. Opening trade will provide Cubans with better access to the Internet and other technology, foreign aid and the global community. It will allow Cubans to take ownership over their lives and their government, and it will completely re-energize Latin America. A bilateral agreement between our countries could redefine the attitude of the Southern Hemisphere. We're making significant strides toward that goal. On May 29 — what would have been the late President John F. Kennedy's 98th birthday — the United States officially removed Cuba from its list of countries that sponsor terrorism. It is perhaps ironic that those two dates should coincide. Yet more significant is how old Kennedy would be now. It is difficult to imagine him as 98. Like Cuba, he is frozen in time. Likewise, it is hard to imagine that Fidel Castro will turn 89 this summer. We think of Kennedy, Castro and Cuba in terms of the roles they played in the past, yet whole generations have grown up in the intervening years. As Cardinal Ortega said, it's time to turn the page.
06.23.2015	Originially published in The Hill on June 10, 2015 It seems every time we talk about the long-term future of Social Security, many in Washington start clamoring to raise the retirement age or propose other ways to trim Social Security’s modest benefits. Those calling for cuts are missing the dire state of retirement security for the typical American. Traditional pensions have become a thing of the past, and stagnant wages are making it harder and harder to put aside savings. For the two-thirds of retirees who rely on Social Security for a majority of their income, there is not a Social Security crisis, there is a retirement crisis. That is why we must preserve and enhance the one program Americans have always been able to count on. Just the other week I sat down with seniors in Glastonbury, Conn., to discuss our nation’s retirement crisis. These men and women hail from all walks of life: veterans, small-business owners, homemakers and machinists. They’ve built and rebuilt this country through wars and recessions. I spoke with one man who spent his life as a lineman, his fingers now crooked and gnarled from a lifetime helping to usher America into the Digital Age. Can we really in good conscience ask the millions of men and women, who have already given so much, to keep pushing well past their breaking point? How does it make sense to push the retirement age ever higher or cut benefits at a time when people need them most? We can shore up Social Security for future generations without needlessly slashing benefits for people like those seniors in Glastonbury or their children and grandchildren. That is why I have been joined by more than 60 of my colleagues in putting forth H.R. 1391, the Social Security 2100 Act. Rather than cut benefits or hike the retirement age, this proposal would increase benefits across the board. It would provide a better cost-of-living adjustment that would reflect the true cost seniors incur, such as higher medical expenses. It would also ensure that those who have paid into the system won’t retire into poverty by increasing minimum payments. Because more seniors are working into their retirement years, this proposal provides a tax cut to 11 million beneficiaries by raising the level of income individuals and couples can earn before their Social Security benefits are taxed. All of these provisions will strengthen and enhance Social Security for current beneficiaries and generations to come. The Social Security 2100 Act keeps the system solvent for the next 75 years and beyond, according to the independent analysis of the Social Security Administration’s chief actuary, and does so without cutting benefits or contributing a dime to the deficit. How do we do this? First, we ask individuals making more than $400,000 a year to contribute into Social Security in the same way as the rest of us. Currently, those with earnings above $118,500 no longer have to pay into the system. To put it another way, LeBron James has made his yearly contribution to Social Security by about lunchtime on New Year’s Day. Second, we slowly introduce an increase to the contributions both workers and employers make. Over the span of 25 years, it would mean an additional 0.05 percent each year. A worker making $50,000 a year would pay an additional 50 cents per week each year to Social Security. With those two provisions alone — for less than a cup of coffee each month and by asking the top 0.4 percent of earners to pay into the system — we can keep Social Security solvent though the end of the century. Let’s get something straight: Social Security is not an entitlement program. It’s the insurance you’ve paid for paycheck after paycheck. The benefits Social Security provides for retirees, the disabled, survivors, spouses and dependents would simply be unavailable on the private market. If some calamity or misfortune strikes — a grievous injury, a tragic death — you deserve the peace of mind that you are part of a larger family: the United States of America. Social Security is the full faith and credit of the United States government, and we the people guarantee that credit. We the people built this program together, and together, we the people will ensure its future for generations to come.
06.23.2015	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-1) released the following statement in response to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ announcement that the Town of East Hartford is to receive a $641,205 grant under the Head Start Program: “As a former teacher in my hometown of East Hartford, I am always proud to see our schools and students afforded every opportunity to succeed. Head Start provides a wonderful foundation for our youngest students, and this grant will allow East Hartford Public Schools to continue providing the highest quality preschool curriculum, family support, and health and developmental screenings. “Head Start is a terrific resource for the 216 children it currently serves. The East Hartford Board of Education will provide an in-house social worker, occupational therapist, physical therapist, developmental specialists, speech and language pathologists, and a registered nurse to ensure that our most vulnerable students receive the support they need to achieve success in school. “I commend East Hartford Public Schools for providing this vital asset. Head Start gives so much to our community, and I am beyond pleased to see its funding extended for the next five years.” ###
06.12.2015	Washington – This week Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2015 (VRIPA), a bipartisan bill that would provide a tax emption on the benefits volunteer firefighters and emergency medical services (EMS) personnel receive from their communities. Larson authored a similar bill that was signed into law in 2007, but the exemption expired in 2010. Currently, volunteers must pay federal income tax on these modest incentives. VRIPA would allow volunteer first responders to exempt from federal taxation any property tax reductions and up to $600 per year in other benefits. “These brave men and women put their lives on the line to protect and save others,” said Larson. “They take these risks and volunteer on behalf of their neighbors, yet are forced to pay federal taxes on the small tokens of gratitude their communities bestow in return This commonsense, bipartisan legislation would ease the burden placed upon our volunteer first responders who already sacrifice so much.” Reichert said, “As a former law enforcement officer myself, I know the unique challenges that firefighters and EMS personnel face. In fact, I wouldn’t be here today if it hadn’t been for the assistance of a first aid responder many years ago. The vast majority of communities across the nation rely on volunteer fire and EMS services and without them would not be able to confront the problems that come their way. That is why it is so important we provide this needed tax relief to the volunteers that put their lives on the line every day in services to their communities and help keep our citizens safe.” “On behalf of the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC) I’d like to thank Representatives Larson and Reichert for introducing this critical legislation to help local volunteer emergency services agencies recruit and retain personnel,” said NVFC Chairman Kevin D. Quinn. “On average, a volunteer firefighter in the United States donates services worth more than $18,000 annually to the communities that they serve. Clarifying that minor incentives that volunteers receive as a reward for their service are not taxable will give communities flexibility to provide benefits without having to worry about being audited by the IRS.” “Volunteer first responders provide the highest standard of critical safety services and save communities nationwide millions of dollars in the process,” said Matthew J. DeTemple, President of the National Association of Towns and Townships and Executive Director, Ohio Township Association. “We need to do everything we can to support them and encourage their efforts. Requiring volunteers to pay taxes for the modest benefits they receive is misguided. This bill, VRIPA, corrects this transgression.” “Many volunteer fire departments are finding it increasingly difficult to recruit and retain firefighters,” added Bill Webb, executive director of the Congressional Fire Services Institute. “Communities throughout the country have been providing modest rewards to show volunteer firefighters their service is valued. By exempting from federal taxation these incentives, the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act will greatly assist local fire departments in recruiting and retaining future generations of volunteer firefighters. I applaud Congressman Larson and Congressman Reichert for introducing this important piece of legislation.” “Volunteer and combination fire departments face difficult challenges in recruiting and retaining firefighters and EMS personnel,” said Fire Chief G. Keith Bryant, President of the International Association of Fire Chiefs. If enacted this provision will protect the nominal incentives volunteers receive from being taxed and losing their incentivizing power. In the past five years, the number of volunteer firefighters in the United States has declined by nearly 41,000 while the number of volunteers over the age of 50 has steadily increased. To boost recruitment and retention, many volunteer fire and EMS agencies provide minor financial and non-monetary incentives, including but not limited to uniforms, annual award ceremonies, and reduced property taxes The services donated by volunteer first responders are estimated to be worth approximately $140 billion annually. Without these services, many communities would be unable to provide firefighting and emergency medical services. ###
06.12.2015	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson voted against the Trade Promotion Authority, commonly referred to as “Fast Track.” “Trade plays a significant role in driving our economy,” said Larson. “As such, we owe it to our nation and workforce to carefully consider any legislation concerning new trade agreements. As the Dean of our delegation, Rosa DeLauro, has so eloquently stated throughout the year, the legislation’s deficiencies on labor protections, the environment, human rights, and currency manipulation resulted in it being a fundamentally flawed bill, which is why I voted no. I will continue to insist that we put this bill aside, and work towards a trade bill that meets the framework outlined by Ranking Member Sander Levin’s ‘Right track’ proposal.” TPA was the second of three votes in a larger package on trade. Prior to the passing of TPA, the House voted on the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program. Though TAA ultimately failed, Larson supported the bill and its stated goal of providing aid to displaced workers. “With the passage of TPA expected and an objectionable Medicare offset having already been removed, I agreed with the President that it was essential that we pass TAA to ensure this vital program is continued,” Larson added. “While there was certainly room for improvement in the bill, especially on the overall funding levels, we must be careful to prevent the pursuit of the perfect from becoming the enemy of the good. TAA does considerable good by providing job training programs for displaced workers, extra funds for healthcare, and enhanced unemployment benefits.” Though TPA was approved by the House in a 219-211 vote, ultimate passage of the entire package remains uncertain. “I hope this additional time will give my colleagues the opportunity to reconsider the current trade legislation, and I look forward to working with Rep. DeLauro, Ranking Member Levin, and other colleagues on the best path forward,” said Larson. ###
06.10.2015	Washington – “For nearly thirty years, Dr. Billington has stood at the helm of the Library of Congress, steering the nation’s fortress of knowledge and humanity through times of massive cultural change and technological advancement. “Throughout his stewardship, Dr. Billington worked ceaselessly to make the Library accessible to millions of people across the nation and around the world. From the launch of the National Book Festival in 2001 to the building of a “World Digital Library;” from the collection of 100,000 oral testimonies for the Veterans History Project to the many blockbuster exhibitions displaying the Library’s vast collections, Dr. Billington’s leadership has successfully and surefootedly guided the Library of Congress into the 21st-century. I was also proud to work with him on initiating the International Summit of the Book, which is now entering its fourth year. “A figure as accomplished and humane as any literary hero – a real life Albus Dumbledore or Gandalf the Grey – Dr. Billington is a true visionary, and we as a nation have reaped the many benefits of his tenure as Librarian of Congress. It has been a privilege and an honor to call him my friend. Though I am saddened by his departure, I wish him and his wife Marjorie, as well and his children and grandchildren, all the best. He will always be in the hearts and minds of the many he touched.” ###
05.31.2015	Hartford, CT – “I was deeply saddened to hear the news of Beau Biden’s passing. He was a remarkable man: deeply dedicated to his country, community, and family. His compassion and resolve left all who met him richer for doing so. Truly his selfless commitment to justice and service speak more to his character than any words could. “My heart goes out to the Vice President and Dr. Biden, Beau’s wife, Hallie, his two children, Natalie and Hunter, and the entire Biden family. You have my deepest sympathies.” ###
05.21.2015	Washington – Beginning Saturday, May 23, U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) will lead a congressional delegation to Cuba. Udall, U.S. Sen. Al Franken (D-Minn.), and U.S. Reps. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.) and John Larson (D-Conn.) will meet with Cuban and U.S. State Department officials, Cuban business owners and others to discuss ways the United States can further open relations with Cuba through trade and tourism and by expanding opportunities for cultural exchange between American and Cuban citizens. Meetings will cover opening markets for Cuban and U.S. farmers; opportunities for U.S. companies to participate in the expansion of telecommunications infrastructure; expanding ecotourism; and marine conservation efforts. The delegation will also meet with curators of the 12th Havana Biennial program, which will feature artists from around the world in the first U.S./Cuban exhibit – including an artist from Taos, N.M. ###
05.19.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) voted to end the cycle of kicking the can down the road when it comes to our nation’s infrastructure. “Enough is enough. It’s time to bring a fully funded, long-term transportation bill to the floor. It will pass.” Larson has repeatedly joined his Democratic colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee in calling for hearings on the Highway Trust Fund, but the Republicans on the committee have not held a single hearing since they took charge in 2011. “This will be the sixth summer in a row we have gone without a long-term transportation bill,” said Larson. “Congress should stay in session until we pass a bill that funds our nation’s infrastructure needs. Infrastructure is neither Democratic nor Republican; it is American and it is necessary. Congress needs to do its job to ensure that our roads and bridges are safe and to put the nation back to work.” ###
05.15.2015	Washington – “While no bill is perfect—and the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) has significant flaws—I am ever mindful of the needs of our country, military, and the individuals and businesses that comprise Connecticut’s manufacturing base. Furthermore, I deeply respect the bipartisan effort of the Armed Services Committee, who—in a contentious climate—drafted a bill that provides critical investments in both our troops and the equipment that they rely on. “First and foremost, the FY16 NDAA provides a well-deserved 2.3% pay raise to the men and women who serve. Our service members put their lives on the line for our nation, and they deserve to receive fair compensation and benefits for their service. The NDAA also ensures they are provided with the equipment needed to carry out their mission by ramping up production of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and continuing the development of critical programs such as the KC-46 Air Tanker, the Long Range Strike Bomber, the Ohio Replacement Submarine, and the Combat Rescue Helicopter. “Although I voted in favor of the measure today, I believe strongly that changes must be made prior to sending the bill to the President. The Republican Leadership’s reliance on a budgetary gimmick to avoid Sequester should not be tolerated in the final legislation. In fact, it is beyond time for Congress to fully eliminate the self-inflicted Sequester that has done nothing but slow our economy, damage and dismantle the programs our citizens rely on, and hinder our ability to properly plan for and invest in our national defense. As I’ve been saying for years, it is time for us to invest in the American people once again. “Finally, I was disturbed by the Republican majorities’ decision to strip language from the bill that would encourage the Secretary of Defense to consider allowing young undocumented immigrants, known as DREAMers, to join the armed services. This non-binding language would do nothing but show support for the idea that individuals raised in this country should have the ability to give back to their nation. The desire to put one’s life on the line for the sake of our freedom should be commended, not casually and cruelly shoved aside.” ###
05.01.2015	Washington – This week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill for the Fiscal Year 2016, which makes unprecedented cuts to veterans’ services: “No one wants to see the courageous men and women who’ve sacrificed so much for our country under-funded or under-served. Unfortunately, that will be the result of the latest misguided funding bill passed in the House of Representatives. This bill fails to make critical investments to improve medical care or update outmoded VA facilities. Drastic reductions to the FY 2016 budget request from the VA will only slow the process of correcting the tragic errors that came to light last summer, which cost some veterans their health and lives. Many of the most prominent veterans’ service organizations publicly expressed very serious concerns with these cuts. They understand that in order to move beyond mistakes from the past, we need to make smart investments to improve care in the future.” John Hollis, former Senior State Commander of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) added, “I’m very grateful to Congressman Larson for all he’s done on behalf of veterans, and I’m pleased to see him take a position to support the 1% of brave Americans who put themselves in harm’s way to protect our freedoms.” ###
05.01.2015	Washington – “This Republican budget resolution does not invest in the American people and our infrastructure. It slashes investments to education, infrastructure, food assistance, and other programs vital to working families across our nation. "At a time when the cost of a college education is higher than ever, the Republican budget cuts $85 billion in assistance to students. It would also eliminate the American Opportunity Tax Credit, leaving 10 million Americans without college assistance. "This proposal also makes drastic reductions to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and Medicaid. By block-granting Medicaid, this budget would rip the away the health care safety net for 70 million Americans. The wealthy few get more for less, and the middle class and working families get less for working more. Programs like Pell Grants, Medicare, and Medicaid are a leg up for millions of Americans, providing access to education and healthcare they may otherwise lack. Gutting these benefits would knock countless men and women right back down to the ground. This budget is not a step forward for our country, but instead a dangerous backwards slide with no jobs.” ###
04.29.2015	Hartford – “I am thrilled the North End has received the Promise Zone designation,” said Rep John B. Larson (CT-01). “This is a tremendous step forward for the city of Hartford and the countless men and women of the North End. I commend Mayor Pedro Segarra and all of the city’s partners for making a commitment to revitalize the North End to make it a safer and more prosperous place for its residents.” As one of the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s newest Promise Zones, Hartford will receive technical assistance, preferential access to certain federal programs, and coordinated support. With these resources, the city can expand workforce and educational opportunities for the under- and unemployed, the city’s youth, and businesses looking to expand into the area. ###
04.24.2015	Hartford – “Marty Gavin ushered in extraordinary growth for the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center. His passion and vision greatly expanded CCMC’s ability to care for our state’s children and provide jobs to hundreds of hardworking men and women. Marty has been an exemplary leader in Connecticut, and I wish him the very best in his future endeavors.” ###
04.24.2015	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson voiced his support for Rep. Sander Levin’s Right Track for TPP Act of 2015. This alternative to the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) bill was introduced at Thursday’s Ways and Means Committee markup. It offers specific instructions on all of the outstanding issues in the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) negotiations and establishes an advisory group to certify the President has followed these instructions and adequately consulted with Congress. “I applaud Ranking Member Levin for his work in crafting an alternative to the Hatch-Wyden TPA proposal,” said Larson. “Trade drives our economy, and the Democratic proposal would allow America to pursue new trade relationships while protecting our workers, safeguarding our currency, and allowing Congress to remove expedited consideration where necessary. While I understand the challenges faced by Senators Wyden and Hatch in crafting a Trade Promotion Authority, it was clear to me their efforts fell woefully short. Enactment at this time would not be appropriate. Chairman Paul Ryan blocked voting on Right Track on the grounds that the Rules Committee has jurisdiction over the fast-track process. This objection was raised even though the Hatch-Wyden-Ryan TPA bill was marked up today in Ways and Means. “It is extremely disappointing that Chairman Ryan used a procedural hurdle to block a vote on our ‘Right Track’ proposal,” said Larson. “Our constituents deserve to know where we stand on the issues that impact them, and we as the minority party deserve the opportunity to present our views for consideration, especially on issues as consequential as trade.” Larson, along with Rep. Richard Neal, also introduced an amendment to require the White House to include strong, enforceable currency manipulation provisions in international trade agreements. “I was proud to join my good friend Congressman Neal in introducing a reasonable amendment to address currency manipulation. Our amendment was identical to the one offered last night by Republican Senator Rob Portman, who—as the nation’s former top trade negotiator—has a certain expertise on these matters. Because the TPP includes nations that have previously manipulated their currencies, it’s vital we take steps to enforce the rules preventing unfair exchange practices. Unfortunately, Republicans on the committee chose to oppose these provisions,” Larson added. A summary of the Right Track for TPP Act can be found here. The full text is available here. ###
04.23.2015	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rep. Rob Bishop (UT-01) introduced a resolution in Congress supporting the establishment of a Presidential Youth Council to advise the President of the United States on the perspectives of young Americans. The Council would also provide insight and suggestions on how to most effectively utilize federal funding to impact the nation’s youth. “Change doesn’t start in Washington,” said Larson. “It begins in our schools and across our communities when young Americans speak up about the issues they face. The perspectives of our youth should be an essential part in shaping policies that directly impact their lives. That’s why a Presidential Youth Council is so important. I’m proud of the work we do with our own First Congressional Youth Cabinet in Connecticut because the decisions we make today shape the future our young constituents will inherit. They deserve a voice in this critical process.” Larson’s resolution enjoys bipartisan support from 28 co-sponsors. Current co-sponsors include Representatives Elizabeth Esty, Joe Courtney, Tim Ryan, Lacy Clay, Alcee Hastings, David Price, Tony Cardenas, Brad Ashford, Richard E. Neal, Chris Van Hollen, Julia Brownley, Betty McCollum, John Delaney, Mike Thompson, Andre Carson, Jim Cooper, Rob Bishop, Don Young, Susan Brooks, Leonard Lance, Bradley Byrne, Ryan Zinke, Bruce Westerman, Chris Stewart, Mike Fitzpatrick, Todd Young, David Young, and Kristi Noem. ###
04.16.2015	Alexandria –Tuesday night, the Military Officers Association of America awarded David Sitcovsky—Legislative Director for Congressman John B. Larson—with the Colonel Paul W. Arcari Meritorious Service Award. This distinction is bestowed upon Congressional staff members who have made significant contributions to the uniformed services community. Sitcovsky was honored for his work on legislation introduced by Congressman Larson to ensure that TRICARE—thehealth insurance program for active duty and retired military personnel (and their dependents)—providesappropriate access to behavioral health treatment for children with developmental disabilities. The legislation would have reduced barriers to accessing a particular treatment known as applied behavior analysis (ABA) by eliminating dollar caps on coverage, allowing both active duty and retiree dependents access to ABA, and ensuring that all children with developmental disabilities can access ABA if prescribed by a physician. “I am privileged to have assisted Congressman Larson over the last few years in his efforts to ensure that children of military families diagnosed with a developmental disability can access the health care services they need,” said Sitcovsky. “It has truly been an honor for me personally to play even a small part in the fight to provide the individuals and families who sacrifice so much for all of us with the care they deserve. MOAA does an incredible job in bringing the day-to-day challenges families experience to Members of Congress and staff, and I am beyond honored that they would consider me for the Col. Paul W. Arcari Meritorious Service Award. As the Congressman continues to fight on these issues, I look forward to working with MOAA and the other great advocates working on behalf of military families to make additional progress. Once again, I am grateful to MOAA’s Board of Directors for selecting me for this award.” “Dave has worked tirelessly for our nation’s military families,” said Larson. “The children of these brave men and women deserve access to the very best care, and I applaud Dave’s continued efforts to ensure they receive just that.” ###
03.26.2015	Washington – “The issue of health for our seniors, children, and families is neither Democrat nor Republican: it’s American," said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). "I commend Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi, and the leaders of the Ways and Means and Energy and Commerce Committees for joining together in a bipartisan spirit to forge an agreement that will benefit millions of Americans. This is what the American people expect and what they deserve from their elected representatives. "I am proud of the work we've done to repeal and replace the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula: the formula currently used to reimburse providers who treat Medicare beneficiaries. For years Congress has enacted short-term patches to the formula to avoid devastating cuts. I have long advocated for a permanent fix. In this legislation, we replaced the broken SGR formula with a payment model that values quality over quantity. We put patients’ care first, ensuring stability for providers and funding several key programs that assist low-income Medicare beneficiaries. "Additionally, the bill extends the vital Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV) program. CHIP alone provides healthcare for thousands of Connecticut children. We also made important investments in our community health centers, a key component to healthcare access in both Connecticut and the rest of the country. "There are certainly areas of this bill that I would have liked to see improved, including a four-year CHIP reauthorization, a permanent repeal of the therapy caps, the removal of unnecessary Hyde amendment language that was inserted, and offsets that don’t impact Medicare beneficiaries. No bill is perfect, but I take comfort in knowing that despite its flaws, this agreement ensures access to top-notch healthcare for millions of Americans. It is my hope that this is just the first in a number of bipartisan achievements to come.” ###
03.26.2015	Hartford – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the hiring of Amanda Schoen to assume the role of Press Secretary in the First Congressional District office. The announcement follows the departure of Ed Skowronek who recently accepted a position at Sunshine Sachs, a NYC-based public relations firm, after serving as Larson’s Press Secretary since December 2012. “Amanda has demonstrated an excellent work ethic and strong writing ability. These skills will greatly help her as she joins our efforts for the people of Connecticut,” said Larson. "I want to thank Congressman Larson for the opportunity be a part of the great team he has put together. I look forward to helping his office in their work to serve the First Congressional District and our state,” said Amanda Schoen. Amanda Schoen holds a bachelor’s degree in English from the University of Hartford. Prior to assuming the role of Press Secretary, Schoen served as a Field Coordinator at Larson for Congress in East Hartford, CT. ###
03.18.2015	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined several Members of the Ways & Means Committee and others in introducing the ‘Social Security 2100 Act’, HR 1391. Larson, a member of the Ways & Means Subcommittee on Social Security, authored the measure in order to cut taxes for Social Security recipients, provide a benefit bump for current and future beneficiaries, and keep the system strong for generations to come. “Social Security remains the nation’s bedrock retirement program and provides vital protection for the disabled and those who have lost a loved one. Many Americans, however, do not believe it will be there for them when they retire. I am proud to announce a common sense path forward today that, not only strengthens benefits now, but ensures Social Security will be here through the next century,” said Larson. "Social Security Works applauds Representative Larson for his vision and leadership regarding Social Security. At a a time when Americans face a looming retirement income crisis, the increasing squeeze on middle class families, and the perilous upward redistribution of wealth, Representative Larson recognizes that expanding Social Security is a solution. His Social Security legislation will provide greater economic security for all Americans,” said Nancy Altman, founding co-director of Social Security Works. “John Larson has taken a major step forward with this bold initiative to preserve and strengthen the Social Security system for grandparents, parents and children of this nation. The National Committee applauds him for his vision and stands ready to work with him to see his plan become law,” said Max Richtman, President and CEO, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. Congressman John Larson’s Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 1391, provides the following: Tax cut for over 11 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold on taxation of benefits Benefit bump beginning in 2016 for current and new beneficiaries Protection for low income workers by raising the minimum benefit from below the poverty line to 25% above Long term protection against inflation for cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula Social Security remains the single most reliable program for middle class Americans and is expected to pay full benefits over the next two decades. With common sense steps like those in Larson’s proposal, Congress can boost this vital program now and ensure Social Security remains strong well into the future. For additional quotes, a fact sheet, endorsements, bill language and more, see the Social Security 2100 Resource Hub. Current cosponsors of the Social Security 2100 Act include Representatives Joseph Crowley, Danny Davis, John Lewis, Jim McDermott, Richard Neal, Bill Pascrell, Charles Rangel, Linda Sanchez, Mike Thompson, Chris Van Hollen, Brendan Boyle, Robert Brady, Michael Capuano, Matt Cartwright, Judy Chu, Katherine Clark, John Conyers, Joe Courtney, Elijah Cummings, Rosa DeLauro, Mike Doyle, Donna Edwards, Keith Ellison, Anna Eshoo, Elizabeth Esty, Sam Farr, Chaka Fattah, Tulsi Gabbard, Ruben Gallego, Alan Grayson, Raul Grijalva, Alcee Hastings, Mike Honda, Jared Huffman, Steve Israel, Hakeem Jeffries, Marcy Kaptur, William Keating, Joe Kennedy, Ted Lieu, James McGovern, Gregory Meeks, Jerrold Nadler, Rick Nolan, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Donald Payne Jr., Cedric Richmond, Tim Ryan, Bobby Scott, Jose Serrano, Albio Sires, Louise Slaughter, Paul Tonko, and Juan Vargas. ###
03.16.2015	Washington – “John Daniels worked tirelessly for his community. Both New Haven and Connecticut will always be grateful for his ability to bring people together towards improving the lives of others. I am honored to have served with him and know his achievements will continue to open doors for others who share in his dedication for public service. He was an excellent State Senator and Mayor, and a great referee. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends, and all those who knew him during this difficult time.” ###
03.03.2015	Washington – “TSA workers, the Coast Guard, and others at the Department of Homeland Security work to protect our nation every single day. While none of these individuals deserved the uncertainty caused by last week’s near shutdown, I am pleased that cooler heads prevailed today as House Republican Leadership finally realized the necessity of putting the American people’s safety above politics. With deadlines for other vital funding legislation on the horizon, I urge Members on both sides of the aisle to end this taste great, less filling trend in Washington and work together to move our nation forward.” ###
02.27.2015	Washington – “It is now clear that it’s time to bring a clean, long-term Department of Homeland Security funding bill to the floor after even their own conference rejected their plan. No political difference of opinion is worth risking the safety of our country. Our TSA agents, Homeland Security officials, and other individuals protecting the American people do not deserve to be held hostage any longer.” Earlier today, the U.S. Senate passed a clean, long-term funding bill on a bipartisan basis. That measure could be brought to the House floor at any time by Republican Leadership. ###
02.27.2015	Washington – “As a decorated veteran with a long history of public service and significant private sector experience, Lt. Colonel Sean Connolly is well qualified to champion issues for Connecticut’s veteran population. Both his impressive accolades and genuine desire to improve the lives of those who have served their nation will be crucial in his efforts to advocate for our veterans and their families. I thank Governor Malloy for his continued commitment to our veterans, particularly his efforts to end veterans homelessness in Connecticut, and for his work to bring a true leader like Lt. Colonel Connolly into this vital role.” ###
02.26.2015	Washington – “In Connecticut alone, a Department of Homeland Security shutdown stands to impact more than 1,400 civilian and active duty workers. Grant opportunities could be lost while other vital training and flood-risk services face potential closure. Across the nation, nearly 200,000 could face work without pay. These individuals work day in and day out to protect the American people. Their livelihoods, and the security of the nation, should not be put at risk because Republican Leadership disagrees with the President on immigration – an issue that could easily be debated separately. Now, it's up to Republicans to bring the clean, bipartisan DHS funding bill to the floor for a vote. We simply cannot allow the increasing threat of ISIS, in addition to the Northeast’s desperate need of assistance from FEMA during this unprecedented winter, to be compounded by a needless shutdown. "It's time for Republican Leadership to love their country more than they dislike the President of the United States." Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) is a cosponsor of H.R. 1024, the 'DHS Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act', to provide retroactive pay for Department of Homeland Security workers in the event of a shutdown. Unless Congress acts, DHS is set to shutdown at midnight tomorrow, February 27. ###
02.21.2015	East Granby, CT - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined East Granby First Selectman, James Hayden, to present Mr. Harold H. Wing with medals he earned for his honorable service in the U.S. Army during World War II. "The brave men and women who fought for our country like Harold Wing so often return home and say very little about their heroic service. Instead, they're busy rebuilding the nation. I am so honored to join Harold and his family today to present him with the medals he deserves and recognize his courage, determination, sacrifice and unselfish leadership," said Congressman John B. Larson. Wing, a Private First Class in Battery D 135th Anti-Aircraft Gun Battalion during World War II, fought in several military campaigns in the European theatre including the Battle of the Bulge. He received his medals today in the company of his wife Vera and his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Medals presented: Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with three Bronze Service Stars World War II Victor Medal Honorable Service Lapel Button Marksman Badge with Rifle Bar ###
02.16.2015	Hartford – “Liam McGee raised the bar for Connecticut industry through hard work and innovation matched by few," said Rep. John B. Larson. "His professional judgment and ability to reach new potentials in the private sector will long be discussed and celebrated by colleagues while our community will always be thankful for his efforts and generosity towards the people of Connecticut. I am honored to have known Liam and will continue to keep my thoughts and prayers with his family, friends, and loved ones during this challenging time.” ###
02.12.2015	Washington - This week, Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) introduced the “LNG Excise Tax Equalization Act of 2015”, H.R. 905, to make the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis. Currently, the federal excise tax on LNG and diesel is set at 24.3 cents per gallon. Because it takes 1.7 gallons of LNG to produce the same amount of energy as a gallon of diesel fuel, LNG is taxed 70 percent higher than diesel. This measure would level the playing field by applying the excise tax to LNG and diesel based on the amount of energy each produces, which is how it is applied to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and gasoline. “Utilizing natural gas is critical to our energy independence, but current federal tax policy discourages investment in vehicles that run on this American fuel source. This common sense, bipartisan legislation levels the playing field for LNG trucks, further empowering companies to harness the benefits of clean, affordable, and domestic natural gas,” said Larson. “This bill provides a fair, market-centered solution to fix the tax disparity between diesel and LNG,” said Thornberry. “I think this change will encourage more private sector investment in LNG infrastructure and production, and that will have a real, positive effect on our economy.” Originally introduced in 2009, the bill has been reintroduced in each subsequent Congress. The Senate Committee on Finance passed several tax related bills Wednesday including one based on Larson and Thornberry’s bill. To better understand the problem with the current excise tax, consider a diesel truck traveling 100,000 miles per year at 5 miles per gallon consumes 20,000 gallons of diesel fuel. An identical LNG truck would require 34,000 gallons of LNG to travel the same distance. While the LNG truck uses a cleaner, domestic form of fuel, it would pay an additional $3,402 per year in taxes for using LNG. The bill has received public support from Natural Gas Vehicles for America, American Gas Association, America’s Natural Gas Alliance, AGL Resources, Clean Energy Fuels, UPS, and others. ###
02.03.2015	Washington - "For the 56th time, Republicans have attempted to repeal the Affordable Care Act," said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). "Nearly as many times, they've promised the American people a replacement. "Before the Affordable Care Act, women paid more for their health insurance than men, having a heart attack or diabetes meant you could be denied coverage, and being diagnosed with cancer could lead to financial ruin even with insurance because of lifetime and annual dollar caps. Rather than turn back the clock on our progress, I urge both sides of the aisle to come to the table and work together to strengthen our nation's healthcare system." ###
02.02.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) reintroduced the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Act, which, if enacted, would create a U.S. National Park Service protective designation for the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook that run through ten Connecticut towns. With protective designation as a “wild and scenic river”, the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook could receive as much as $100,000 in funding from the federal government to assist volunteers and officials with conservation efforts. “This bill will protect the beauty, ecological diversity, and recreational opportunities on Connecticut’s treasured Farmington River,” said Murphy. “There are very few stretches of river anywhere in the country where you're going to find the natural beauty, economic benefits, and history all in one place. That’s why preserving the river is important to Connecticut and will help keep our state beautiful for generations to come.” “Preserving and protecting the Farmington River—indeed a wild and scenic treasure—is a moral obligation, not just for ourselves and the immediate economic benefit, but for our children and grandchildren. This designation will bring vital federal resources to regional conservation efforts to ensure this precious waterway remains clean and free-flowing for generations to come,” said Blumenthal. “The Farmington River is an incredible resource for our communities, both as an environmental treasure and an economic asset,” said Esty. “Families from across Connecticut and around the world travel to the Farmington River to enjoy fishing, boating, and other tourism and recreational opportunities. The river also has the potential to produce clean hydropower to power thousands of Connecticut homes and businesses. Designating the Farmington River as a ‘wild and scenic river’ will help preserve and protect it for generations to come. It’s been nearly twenty-one years since the Upper Farmington River received this designation, and it’s time to include the lower section as well.” “Preserving the Farmington River protects Connecticut’s waterways and the environment across the region. This legislation continues to work of several Senators and Members of Congress towards a ‘wild and scenic’ designation crucial to the future of this important body of water. I am pleased to join my colleagues in reintroducing this measure today and commend the Connecticut Delegation for their commitment to our natural resources," said Larson. The legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate by Murphy and Blumenthal, and in the House of Representatives by Esty and Larson. Their efforts are the product of a bi-partisan, community-driven process that began nearly a decade ago, when ten Connecticut towns - Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, Canton, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor - came together to protect the Lower Farmington River. The upper portion of the river was given protected status in 1994. Murphy, Blumenthal, Larson, and Esty have introduced similar legislation in previous Congress’s, but those bills were not enacted. ###
01.30.2015	Hartford, CT – “Since Ida May Fuller received the first monthly Social Security benefit 75 years ago, Social Security has remained the bedrock program for middle class Americans," said Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01). "Social Security has lifted millions out of poverty and supported economic activity across the nation. This vital program is the insurance you have paid for, and must be strengthened for current and future generations. That’s why I plan to reintroduce my proposal to provide a tax cut for seniors, improve current benefits, and keep the Social Security Trust Fund solvent through the 21st century. I remain committed to strengthening Social Security and look forward to discussing my proposal across the First Congressional District in the coming months.” Larson, a longtime Member of the Ways & Means Committee, recently won a spot on the Social Security Subcommittee where he will continue to be a staunch defender of American’s hard-earned Social Security benefits. Last year, Larson introduced the Social Security 2100 Act, a comprehensive bill to both strengthen benefits for current and future beneficiaries and keep the system strong for generations to come. Larson’s proposal would make the Social Security Trust fund solvent for the next 75-years and beyond according to the independent analysis of Social Security Administration Chief Actuary Stephen C. Goss. Social Security is the one program middle class Americans can count on no matter what. The program is projected to be able to pay full benefits for the next two decades, and with common sense steps like those in Larson’s proposal, Social Security can remain strong for the rest of the century. ###
01.26.2015	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today applauded the United States Department of Human Health and Services (HHS) announcement that it is releasing $7.7 million in additional funding for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in Connecticut. The additional funds bring Connecticut’s total secured in Fiscal Year 2015 total from $77 million to $85 million. LIHEAP is a federal program that is vital in assisting low income households and senior citizens in paying their energy bills so that they may afford other necessities, which is crucial to these families during the freezing winter and hot summer months. “With some of the year’s coldest weeks still ahead, we applaud HHS for releasing these additional funds. LIHEAP is critical for Connecticut families – for some it’s a matter of life and death,” the Delegation stated. “This program ensures that Connecticut families’ homes remain heated throughout the worst of the winter season, and we’ll continue to fight to preserve funding for this high-priority program, which helps more than 100,000 Connecticut residents annually.” This past winter has highlighted the exceptional need for LIHEAP funding. Constant freezing temperatures resulted in high energy costs for many families, creating a home heating crisis, and thus LIHEAP has experienced a massive influx of residents requesting assistance in recent years. The Connecticut Congressional delegation has been tirelessly advocating for additional LIHEAP funding. DeLauro is the senior Democrat on the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Health and Human Services, which administers LIHEAP. ###
01.21.2015	Washington - “For five years, our elections have been bombarded with unreported and unlimited contributions following Citizens United. That decision and others made by the Supreme Court have pushed many out of the electoral process and severely lowered the ability of everyday Americans to have their voice heard. That’s why I recently lead a task force to brainstorm new approaches and legislation to counter these misguided decisions from the Court last Congress. I am proud to join with former Members of the Task Force on Election Reform this year as they introduce several important bills to reverse the impact of Citizens United and know that these measures are proof that not only does the Democratic Caucus have the desire to get money out of politics – we have a plan. I commend my colleagues for their work to strengthen participation in our electoral process and remain committed to eliminating the corrosive impact of money in politics.” ###
01.20.2015	Washington – “Tonight the President spoke directly to the need for a continued focus on job creation, the need for investment in infrastructure and our students, and ensuring that we build on successful policies that are focused on improving opportunities for all working Americans. Our economy has made significant strides due to the hard work and resilience of the American people and policies that have helped take us out of the depths of the worst recession since the Great Depression. I applaud the President’s call to action tonight to work in a bipartisan manner on behalf of middle class families and look forward to working with my Republican colleagues to build on the progress that has been made over the past few years.” ###
01.16.2015	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Barack Obama’s announcement that his Administration would be taking several steps to improve our nation’s roads, bridges, and broadband network: “I am pleased to see President Obama look for innovative ways to fund improvements for our nation’s infrastructure in the absence of long-term funding from Congress. With this announcement, the President has reaffirmed his commitment to making the nation’s transportation infrastructure a top priority for his Administration and shown he is willing the cut red tape in order to move ahead on needed repairs. “Fixing our crumbling highways, bridges, levee systems, and more cannot be put on hold indefinitely. In addition to ensuring the safety of the American people, repairing our infrastructure will also create jobs and boost our economy by strengthening the systems by which commerce flows. I will continue to urge Congress to pass the long-term transportation bill in order to unleash a renewed investment in infrastructure across the country. We have a great opportunity this Congress with a like-minded, infrastructure driven Chairman like Bill Shuster of the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee who I look forward to working with in the coming months.”Click here for a White House Fact Sheet on the President’s recent announcement. ###
01.15.2015	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today issued a joint statement applauding $10 million in federal funds to improve water quality throughout the Long Island Sound watershed. The funds were among $370 million awarded nationwide by the United States Department of Agriculture’s new Regional Conservation Partnership Program, which seeks to enhance water quality, support wildlife habitats and enhance the environment. “The Long Island Sound is the lifeblood of our region—one of the most vibrant and productive ecosystems in the world, sustaining our local economy and nurturing our state’s diverse natural beauty. This grant recognizes that it is not only the Sound itself, but its 16,820-square-mile watershed spanning six states and the Connecticut, Housatonic and Thames rivers that must be protected and preserved. This competitive grant will launch a new regional partnership to improve water quality throughout the watershed, managing nutrients in the Sound and nearby farm land, preserving our regional forests and farms, and strengthening the Sound and its coastal flood plains against extreme weather and climate change. As agriculture continues to grow throughout the state and region, this effort marries longstanding conservation efforts along the shoreline with vital measures to protect and preserve the health of our farmland upriver. We applaud the Connecticut Council on Soil and Water Conservation for their leadership in convening this important new partnership, and look forward to continuing to support this effort in the years to come.” Earlier this year, Connecticut’s House delegation joined with other regional members of the House in sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack in support of the Long Island Sound Watershed grant application. Last year, the Connecticut Congressional delegation issued a letter of support for the application. In addition to the $10 million awarded to the Long Island Sound Watershed, the USDA Regional Conservation Partnership Program also awarded two $400,000 grants to the University of Connecticut to improve agricultural water security, and to the Last Green Valley Inc. to improve soil health and water quality in the Thames River Watershed. ###
01.09.2015	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 3, the "Keystone XL Pipeline Act": “After a thorough review, I believe that the Keystone XL pipeline will ultimately be approved. It has Project Labor Agreements up and down in right-to-work states. Construction will help our nation’s workforce and support jobs. However, it still has to go through a process - and as the President has indicated - the Administration must conduct due diligence in its review to ensure it satisfies the proper environmental criteria. Following a Nebraska court’s removal of a significant hurdle, I believe the Administration can now act. I also continue to believe that it would be inappropriate to short circuit the process, which is why I am voting no while the Administration conducts their review.” ###
01.09.2015	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: “I applaud President Obama for his proposal to make the first two years of college and an associate degree as universal as a high school education. That was the original plan for our community colleges, and I commend the President for continuing that mission today. “No hardworking American student should be denied an education that allows them to gain the credentials or skill set required to succeed in our knowledge based economy. I was pleased to have Vice President Joe Biden visit the First Congressional District last August to discuss issues of higher education and job creation, and I am proud that Connecticut institutions are leading the way. Under this proposal, all responsible students would have an opportunity to continue their education after high school and gain the skills they need to enter the workforce. “In a knowledge based society, higher education is essential to both economic growth and job security. College affordability, both over a two and four year period, and college loan debt will remain a focus of mine this Congress.” ###
01.08.2015	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the “Save American Workers Act of 2015”, H.R. 30: “If this bill were signed into law, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that up to 500,000 additional Americans would be uninsured, leaving them without the vital protections of the Affordable Care Act. This measure would leave half-a-million people with no coverage for heart conditions, diabetes, and other serious illnesses that impact our nation. That’s why I voted against this legislation and remain opposed to bills that would undermine access to health care coverage. “When Bill Kristol, The National Review, and The CATO Institute all agree with Democrats that this is a bad idea, it’s probably a bad idea. I was proud to join Congressman Joe Courtney, who put forward a thoughtful proposal to address the concerns of small businesses that unfortunately was not allowed to be considered on the floor, and continue to call on Members to come together to improve our health care system.” A recent report by the Congressional Budget Office estimates that if H.R. 30 were signed into law, up to 500,000 additional Americans would become uninsured. ###
12.12.2014	Bill Text | Fact Sheet | TimelineLetters of Support Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson joined Senators Blumenthal, Murphy and Mayor of Hartford Pedro Segarra in applauding passage of the Coltsville National Historical Park Act in the U.S. Senate. Following passage in the U.S. House of Representatives last week, the Act now heads to the President’s desk for his signature.“Today marks the culmination of more than a decade of work to preserve the legacy of American innovation and manufacturing that is Coltsville. Connecticut is the cradle of our industrial revolution. The designation made possible by this Act would not only honor the groundbreaking work of Samuel and Elizabeth Colt, but provides Connecticut greater and much-deserved representation in our National Park system. While it has received wide support on both sides of the aisle, I am most excited to bring this news home to the Hartford community and my constituents who will ultimately reap the cultural and economic benefits that will come from Coltsville’s designation as a National Historical Park,” said Congressman John B. Larson.“I commend the hard work of several Mayors, Representatives, Senators and community leaders on this legislation and Governor Malloy for his continued support of Coltsville,” Larson continued. “I want to especially thank Senators Dodd and Lieberman for their determination in starting this process and Senators Blumenthal and Murphy for carrying the torch and seeing it through final passage. There is still work left to see this designation come to fruition and I look forward to working with the National Park Service and continuing efforts with stakeholders throughout our community along with federal, state and local officials to ensure Coltsville is preserved for generations to come.”"This monumental milestone will drive economic growth and new jobs all around Connecticut by making Coltsville a magnificent, magnetic destination and history hub. Coltsville will be a national monument to Connecticut's vital role in the industrial revolution and American manufacturing, which helped make our state the arsenal of democracy. Designation as a National Park will spur tourism, housing, commerce, and economic development in Hartford-- and stand as a lasting living legacy to the ingenuity, vision and grit of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, as inventors and entrepreneurs and patriots.I am tremendously grateful to Congressman Larson for his unwavering commitment to Coltsville, and to Senators Dodd and Lieberman who advocated powerfully for this provision for years before me. As a member of the Armed Services Committee who negotiated the final agreement, I was proud to be part of the team that finally carried this worthy designation across the finish line,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal.“Once a dream, now on the verge of reality, Connecticut is about to have a new national park. Years and years of hard work have gone into this effort, and with this designation, Hartford's Coltsville will get the national recognition it deserves, allowing future generations to appreciate Connecticut’s powerful role in advancing the industrial revolution and strengthening manufacturing in the United States. I’m proud to have helped get this bill through the Senate with Senator Blumenthal, but we all have John Larson to thank when it is signed into law. His crusade of over a decade to get this done will be taught in classrooms as an example of persistence, persistence, and more persistence, paying off in the end,” said Senator Chris Murphy."The Colt Manufacturing facility played a critical role in our national defense and promoted the spirit of American business ingenuity around the world," said Mayor Pedro Segarra. "This monumental decision will help shape an ongoing renaissance in the City of Hartford, lead to long-term job growth in the region and increase focus on heritage tourism in our state. I want to sincerely applaud and acknowledge Congressman John Larson of his consistent leadership on this issue and Senators Blumenthal and Murphy for always supporting the advancement of Connecticut's Capital City. "Coltsville was the Hartford, Connecticut home of Samuel Colt’s industrial enterprise, the Colt Fire Arms Company. In Hartford, Samuel Colt developed the use of the assembly line and highly mechanized techniques that set the stage for mass production of the bicycle, the typewriter, the automobile, and the jet engine. Colt manufacturing not only transformed the firearms industry but was a major contributor to the industrial revolution by pioneering the use of interchangeable parts and precision manufacturing. The site was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2008. Once the bill is signed into law, the National Park Service will initiate the process of implementing the legislation and will lead the process of establishing a park. The Coltsville National Historical Park Act (H.R. 1259/S.615) is known as an ‘authorization bill’, a common and important step in the establishment of other National Parks nationwide. As an authorization bill, the establishment of a National Park at Coltsville is contingent upon meeting the conditions set out in the legislation, as well as the development of a management plan and funding from federal and non-federal sources. ### In the News: Hartford Courant EDITORIAL: Coltsville Finally A National Historic Park The Day: Moving closer to Coltsville Park, Hartford
12.11.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: “This measure was rushed to the floor with little time for members to review and included numerous problematic policy provisions unrelated to the appropriations process. "From language that could potentially increase health insurance premiums to alterations to the Dodd-Frank law, this bill was filled with provisions that do not belong in a bill that is simply supposed to fund our government. This flawed legislation also included a provision to allow wealthy donors to contribute hundreds of thousands of additional dollars to political parties than previously allowed and a last minute deal on multiemployer pension plans that groups like the AARP, IAM, the Teamsters and others have raised serious concerns with. Rather than a long-term solution, this bill also only provided temporary funding for the Department of Homeland Security, holding a vital part of our national security hostage for purely political reasons. “On these issues and many others, the American people deserve a full and open debate rather than an eleventh hour deal rushed through at the end of the year. I am extremely disappointed in the process today but remain committed to working on the most pressing issues facing our country, jobs and the economy." ###
12.10.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act, S. 2244, in the U.S. House of Representatives: “Today, Congress provided needed certainty to main street businesses and communities across the country that insurance would be available to help them recover in the event of terrorist attacks. “The losses and financial impact of September 11th devastated the economy and overwhelmed businesses struggling to rebuild with insurance policies unprepared for a terrorist attack. The loss of affordable insurance halted the construction and development of major metropolitan areas as well as recovery around ground zero. In order to help jumpstart the economy, Congress came together in 2002 to provide the federal support necessary to allow insurance companies to continue offering financial assistance to families, businesses, cities, universities, sports leagues, and the construction industry. “While it is our hope that this kind of terrorism insurance claim never needs to be fulfilled, we cannot afford to keep businesses suspended in uncertainty and taxpayers on the hook for the total cost of an attack. Providing a government backstop to the work of private insurers in these circumstances is both necessary and fiscally responsible. By reauthorizing TRIA today, we are continuing to provide the security of insurance to developers, building owners and families in the event of a terrorist incident while drastically lowering the ability of those who wish to disrupt our economy through terrorist means.” The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act extends TRIA for six years, providing government assistance in industry losses of over $200 million resulting from a terrorist attack. ###
12.04.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement tonight: “Today’s vote in the U.S. House of Representatives marks a step forward for Coltsville becoming a national park. "The House approved today, along with the NDAA (National Defense Authorization Act), the first major park service and lands bill since 2009. It has both bipartisan and bicameral support and demonstrates that Democrats and Republicans can work together for the common good of the nation. "I am proud of the efforts of the community I represent. For more than a decade, community, historic, cultural, and literary organizations along with not-for-profits and for-profits have persisted in assuring the legacy of Samuel and Elizabeth Colt would become a national historic destination here in Hartford, Connecticut on the banks of a national historic river. "I commend the efforts of three Mayors of the City of Hartford, four United States Senators and especially Senators Blumenthal and Murphy who - as cosponsors of this bill - have worked tirelessly to honor the history of American manufacturing and innovation, the State of Connecticut, the City of Hartford and the entire region.” ###
12.03.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 5771, the ‘Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014’: “For nearly a year, businesses and individuals across the nation have been lost in the void between expired or expiring tax credits and a Congress unwilling to work together. While the short-term bill passed in the House today was the only option short of inaction, my priority remains tax reform to provide certainty for the American people. “I am proud to have fought for many aspects of today’s measure, including the bipartisan Research and Development Tax Credit that has long helped Connecticut businesses and manufacturers create jobs and lead the way in innovation. I am also pleased to see the passage of mortgage debt forgiveness provisions that ensure Americans are not taxed on mortgage debt they have already cancelled. I remain disappointed, however, that the bill put to a vote only provides retroactive and short sighted relief. “More than 500 local and national organizations have urged the extension, enhancement or permanency of a number of tax provisions including Feeding America, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Habitat for Humanity and more. From the business community and charitable organizations to nonprofits and working families, these tax provisions are crucial across the board. I am disappointed that, despite having the ability to work together towards a solution, Congress could not get a longer-term deal done.” ###
12.03.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 647, The ABLE Act of 2014, in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Act would create new savings accounts, known as a 529-ABLE Plan, that would allow families that have a child or children with disabilities save money tax-free to help pay for future costs associated with their child’s disability. “For years I have heard from constituents like Andrew and Tamara Selinger of West Hartford advocate not only on behalf of their own family, but families across the nation who have children with disabilities. With two children diagnosed with Fragile X Syndrome, the Selingers simply want the same opportunities as other families with existing 529 plans – to have a savings mechanism that would enhance their children’s lives without minimizing services they already receive,” said Larson. “I’ve also heard from individuals like Bob and Rosie Shea, Shannon Knall from my local Autism Speaks Chapter, and many other families and groups advocate on behalf of individuals with disabilities. Their passionate message is clear – this legislation is important not only for their children, but for children across Connecticut and the country. “Despite the partisan rancor that often dominates Washington, passage of this measure shows that we can come together in a meaningful way to help the American people. I commend the efforts of my colleagues Representative Ander Crenshaw and Representative Chris Van Hollen for their leadership and steadfast commitment to moving this legislation forward. I’ve been proud to join the hundreds of members of Congress who’ve supported it as a cosponsor for a number of sessions and applaud its passage in the House today.” The 529-ABLE Plans are similar to other 529 plans currently utilized by families to save for education costs. Larson has long advocated for passage of the ABLE Act, previously voting to pass it out of the Ways & Means Committee earlier this year. ###
12.02.2014	Hartford, CT - The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today announced 11 grants from the National Endowment for the Arts to support the arts and creativity in communities across the state. The competitive grants were among 1,118 awarded nationwide and were selected from a pool of 3,455 applicants. “From music education and public art to provocative theater and international festivals, these grants will help enrich and enliven communities across Connecticut. Whether it is in the classroom, on the street, or in our parks, museums and theaters, the arts play a vital role in shaping our understanding of who we are as a community. Connecticut is a better place because of the outstanding talent, commitment and creativity of our artists. We look forward to continuing to support and advance their work, as well as opportunities to inspire and foster our next generation of artists, thinkers and dreamers,” the delegation stated. A full list of grantees is listed below. Organization Name Grant Amount City Project Description Litchfield Performing Arts, Inc. $20,000 Litchfield Residential and day students of different ages and skill levels will participate in the multi-week program held at the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut. While the focus is on collaborative and improvisational music-making and performance, the core curriculum may include combo coaching, music theory, composition, as well as electives such as ear training and sight reading. All students are expected to participate in jam sessions, weekly concerts, and perform at the festival. Instructors include as many as 40 internationally renowned musicians such as Don Braden, Vincent Gardner, Charli Persip, Claudio Roditi, HartBeat Ensemble $10,000 Hartford The play will depict the American political climate of the late 1950s and early 1960s through the lens of two significant artists of the time - James Baldwin and Lorraine Hansberry. Following their careers as artists, their call to social activism, and the challenges of balancing an artistic career with politics, Baldwin and Hansberry's lives provide a look at a rich period of political and social upheaval that resonates 50 years later. The play will be directed by Brian Jennings. Eugene O'Neill Memorial Theater Center, Inc. $55,000 Waterford The project will include the creation and development of new plays and musical theater works by emerging and mid-career artists. Approximately 1,600 manuscripts will be received through an open submission process that will culminate in the selection of seven to ten plays and two to four musicals. The scripts will receive a rehearsal period and staged readings that will be open to the public. Connecticut College $10,000 New London The college will present diverse productions in contemporary and classical dance and music for audiences from southeastern Connecticut and southwest Rhode Island. Artists will include jazz violinist Regina Carter and Doug Varone and Dancers. I-Park Foundation, Inc. $10,000 East Haddam The residencies and symposium will focus on site-specific, temporary art. The public symposium will be presented on the I-Park campus and will serve artists working in various creative disciplines, the academic community, and the general public. During the residency and exhibition, filmmakers will document the art in progress as well as the finished works. New Haven International Festival of Arts & Ideas, Inc. $65,000 New Haven Featured projects will include "From Bach to Bebop," by Imani Winds with Jeff Scott (New York) and poetry by A.B. Spellman (Washington, D.C.), and "Eve" from singer-songwriter Angelique Kidjo (Benin) with guest African artists. The festival also will present "Song of the Jasmine" by Ragamala Dance (Minneapolis) and jazz saxophonist/composer Rudresh Mahanthappa (New York), and the Mark Morris Dance Group's (Brooklyn) "Acis and Galatea.". Wesleyan University $20,000 Middletown Artists may include Chicago's Lucky Plush, Seattle's Zoe/Juniper, and Chicago- and New York-based Darrell Jones. Engagement programs will be tailored to each artist to embed his or her work across the campus. The series also will include a commissioned work by Austin-based Allison Orr, who will work with Wesleyan's College of the Environment and the Middletown community to draw attention to environmental sustainability through the creation of a site-specific community-based work. The performances and residency activities will happen on campus and in the surrounding community. Wesleyan University $25,000 Middletown Poets to be published include Honoree Jeffers, Rae Armantrout, Heather Christle, Jean Day, Marta del Pozo Ortea, and Evie Shockley. The books will be available in both print and digital formats, and accompanied by online readers for teachers, students, and general readers. Yale University $40,000 New Haven Commissioned by Yale Rep, the play follows a quartet of characters whose lives become entangled after a fateful blind date between a young woman finishing cancer treatments and an Internet celebrity who is about to sell his identity to a corporation. The play will be directed by Jackson Gay. Callaghan will be in residence at the theater through the rehearsal process, and will collaborate with Gay and the dramaturgical staff on the ongoing refinement of the text. Connecticut Players Foundation, Inc. $10,000 New Haven Long Wharf Theatre will feature fully produced mini-runs of plays by emerging and established playwrights such as "Forever," written and performed by Dael Orlandersmith, and "Rodney King," a one-man show by Roger Guenveur Smith. Additional festival programming such as staged readings of works-in-progress, post-show conversations, and communitywide conversations will be hosted by the New Haven Free Public Library. Silvermine Guild of Artists, Inc. $25,000 New Canaan Events will include performances by musicians Caladh Nua (Ireland), multidisciplinary animation and performance artist Miwa Matreyek (United States), and a new co-commissioned work from collaborators Bridgman/Packer Dance (United States) and filmmaker Peter Bobrow (United States). Silvermine also will present Arts Fest, a free, outdoor festival of music, dance, and the visual arts, featuring hip-hop and percussion troupe Street Beat(United States). ###
11.20.2014	Hartford – Congressman John B. Larson released the following statement tonight: “Tonight’s announcement moves us closer to fixing our failing immigration system. By using his authority - in the same manner that Presidents George H.W. Bush and Reagan did before him - to do what House Republican Leaders have so far been unwilling to do, the President will help families across the country currently stuck in limbo. “The President also reminded the nation of the work we have left to do and the responsibility of Congress to get the job done. Right now, the House has a comprehensive immigration reform bill ready for a vote. We could deal with this immediately if House Republican Leadership were to put the measure to the floor where it would pass. We cannot continue to ignore the rising moral and economic costs of inaction and must work together to finish the job and build a fair, effective and commonsense immigration system. “With less than ten legislative days left before the New Year, immigration is one of many issues Congress must deal with. I look forward to discussing these in Connecticut’s First Congressional District over the next several days and bringing the comments and concerns of my constituents back to Washington.” ###
10.24.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement:“My thoughts and prayers go out to the students, faculty, and families affected by this senseless tragedy. Unfortunately, we are once again bearing witness to what is now an epidemic of shootings occurring across our country. With each tragedy that occurs and each day that passes Congress remains complicit in its inaction to address gun violence. While members of Congress focus their attention on combating the public health crisis from Ebola, we must be engaging with the same fervor on the public health crisis of gun violence that has affected communities across our nation.” ###
10.20.2014	East Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) today announced a five-year, $6 million contract between the United States Air Force and the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, Inc. (CCAT). The contract, “Manufacturing Technology Innovation for Cost Reduction,” is being awarded by the Air Force Research Laboratory to fund development and use of tools for metal and composite materials manufacturing for Air Force supply chain companies, many of which are based in Connecticut.“This contract is further commitment to strengthening our manufacturing base, especially the vast aerospace industry that is at the fabric of the Air Force’s supply chain,” said Congressman Larson. “CCAT has forged a strong partnership with the Air Force and its Research Laboratory that has led to the creation of the Advanced Manufacturing Center, located on the doorsteps of the United Technologies Research Center. That partnership is only reaffirmed by this contract. I am proud that CCAT is leading the way here in Connecticut on behalf of manufactures across the country and the brave men and women of our armed forces.”“CCAT will utilize its Advanced Manufacturing Center (AMC) and our research and manufacturing expertise to devise and implement cost reducing machining solutions for the USAF,” said Elliot Ginsberg, President and CEO, CCAT. “The AMC, with long-standing support from USAF, has emerged as a national applied research asset that is paying back dividends from prior investment in manufacturing innovation. Together with our expert partners, we will foster the success of this program to optimize methods for machining parts made out of specialty metals and advanced composites.”CCAT has assembled a team of machine manufacturers and machining optimization software companies to demonstrate efficient machining processes for parts made of aerospace alloys and composites. Machining optimization can improve cycle time, lower energy consumption, and extend tool life for manufacturers, resulting in an increased capacity with existing equipment and lower operating and acquisition costs. The intended outcome of this collaboration is for Air Force manufacturers to meet their target cost objectives and, ultimately, improve their global competitiveness. ###
10.16.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on Thursday afternoon:“With the critical challenges facing our nation, including not only the threat of ISIL but also Ebola, I continue to call on Congress to come back into session and do its job. However, as it is clear that our leaders seem to be unwilling to do this, I will be in Washington on Friday to receive a briefing from national security officials on current military actions being taken against ISIL and will be speaking with senior officials at the Centers for Disease Control to discuss the steps that need to be taken to prevent the spread of Ebola. I look forward to continuing the conversations I’ve been having with the community on these critical national security issues next week to provide additional information and receive your feedback.” To find out more information on the current government response to Ebola, visit: State of Connecticut – https://www.governor.ct.gov/malloy/cwp/view.asp?Q=555040&A=4010 State Department - https://www.state.gov/p/af/rt/health/ebola/index.htm Federal Aviation Administration - https://www.faa.gov/news/press_releases/news_story.cfm?newsId=17375 Department of Defense - https://www.defense.gov/home/features/2014/1014_ebola/ ###
10.15.2014	Hartford, CT – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn), U.S. Rep. Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), U.S. Rep. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), and U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty (D-Conn.) issued a joint statement today praising the U.S. Department of Defense’s recent $592 million contract with Pratt & Whitney for the seventh lot of F135 propulsion systems to power F-35 Lightning II aircraft. The low rate initial production contract for the seventh lot will deliver 36 total engines.“We applaud Pratt & Whitney for its continued commitment to driving down the cost of the F135 engine,” the delegation said. “With the signing of this $592 million contract, Pratt will further reduce the cost of the engine by 4.5 percent and meet the war on cost goals. This contract is fantastic news that should serve as a reminder of the bright future for Connecticut’s aerospace industry and the highly skilled workforce that supports it.” ###
10.15.2014	Hartford, CT – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut’s Congressional delegation joined Governor Dannel P. Malloy today in applauding news that Capital Workforce Partners and Workforce Alliance Inc. have received Ready To Work grants from the U.S. Department of Labor. Capital Workforce Partners has been awarded $6,695,685 and Workforce Alliance, and their partner the Eastern CT Workforce Investment Board (EWIB), has been awarded $5,490,000.The Ready To Work initiative supports collaboration between employers, nonprofit organizations and job training programs to connect Americans with available jobs. Today’s grants are aimed at getting people struggling with long-term unemployment back to work. The grants have three primary functions: outreach and recruitment, training and support services, and placement strategies.DeLauro and Blumenthal are the lead sponsors of the Fair Employment Opportunity Act, which would prohibit employers and employment agencies from discriminating against unemployed job-seekers by refusing to consider them for employment.“In a tough job market, where unemployed workers are often discriminated against, we need to do everything possible to level the playing field,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). “These grants will help ensure that Connecticut residents who want a job can be better-equipped to compete for available positions. I applaud Workforce Alliance and Capital Workforce Partners for all the great work they do helping Connecticut families.”Senator Richard Blumenthal said: "These grants will fuel our continued economic recovery, helping the long-term unemployed learn new skills and land new jobs. Workers must be evaluated based on their qualifications and experience when applying for jobs, which is why I introduced the Fair Employment Opportunity Act to prohibit discrimination against those who are currently unemployed. These grants emphasize the skills employers are looking for and will help fill areas of need and power economic growth. I commend Workforce Alliance Inc. and Capital Workforce Partners for their incredible work helping Connecticut residents to transition smoothly back into the workforce."Senator Chris Murphy said: “The unemployed in Connecticut are ready to get back to work, but they still need help getting connected to available jobs in the state. That's why the grants announced today are so important. They'll help make those critical connections and get the long-term unemployed in Connecticut back into good jobs. With this funding, Capital Workforce Partners and the Workforce Alliance Inc. can build on their tremendous job-training programs that help people in Connecticut find employment. These grants are a big win for families and workers in Connecticut, and I'm looking forward to seeing them benefit so many deserving people.”"I applaud Capital Workforce Partners and Workforce Alliance for having the vision to lead these efforts on behalf of the long-term unemployed and current workers looking to upgrade their skills," Congressman John Larson (CT-1) said. "These grants will provide training and job placement services for workers in high-skilled employment sectors, including our growing health care industry. Under the leadership of Governor Malloy and our Congressional delegation, Connecticut is laying the foundation for a stronger workforce."Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2) said: "These resources will help get Connecticut's long-term unemployed back on the job, with the skills they need to compete and succeed. The on-the-job training supported by this announcement is good for job-seekers, for employers who need skilled workers, and for our economic recovery. I applaud EWIB for the excellent work they have already done in helping place 220 eastern Connecticut workers into good jobs across the region--beating federal goals outlined in the previous grant round--and this additional funding is a testament to their continuing success.""These Ready to Work grants will provide Connecticut residents with the training and skills they need to excel in the workforce,” Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) said. “They will specifically help our friends and neighbors who have been unemployed for longer periods of time, connecting them with growing companies in Connecticut. I applaud the Workforce Alliance and Capital Workforce Partners for their efforts on behalf of Connecticut's workers and our state's economy.”Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) said: “It is critical that our neighbors and friends struggling to find work—particularly the long-term unemployed—have the tools they need to reenter the workforce. I applaud what Capital Workforce Partners and Workforce Alliance both do to help jobseekers in Connecticut, and this grant from the Department of Labor will allow them to reach more people seeking their assistance to move back into the workforce.”"While we are making steady progress growing our economy and we're seeing job growth in the private sector, we must continue our efforts to ensure that workers in our state have good-paying jobs with good benefits," Governor Malloy said. "Connecticut has some of the most talented and skilled workers in the nation, and these initiatives announced today are targeted specifically at those who are long-term unemployed so that we can match them with available positions at Connecticut employers."Workforce Alliance President & CEO William P. Villano said, “This grant does more than put people back to work. It builds Connecticut’s competitive advantage in high-skilled industries by targeting the skills gap in important sectors of the regional economy. All participants will be trained for and placed in career-path positions in one of the targeted fields.”Capital Workforce Partners President and CEO Thomas Phillips said: “The $6.7m that Capital Workforce Partners has received through the H-1B Ready to Work Partnership grant will not only allow us to re-tool and re-train long term unemployed individuals, but the grant will also ensure that local health care employers will have access to qualified pool of workers in our region, as demographic trends impact our labor force.”“Historically, Connecticut has been known for the excellent quality of its workforce.” said John Beauregard, EWIB Executive Director, “This grant will help us maintain that leadership by upgrading the skills of Connecticut workers. Companies grow where talent is readily available.” ###
10.15.2014	Hartford, CT – Today, U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) and U.S. Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Jim Himes (D-Conn.) and Elizabeth Esty (D-Conn.) announced that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released $77,288,422 of block grant funding for Connecticut’s Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). LIHEAP helps low income households pay their energy bills and is particularly crucial as we move in to the winter. The announcement comes less than two weeks after Blumenthal, Murphy, and a bipartisan group of 44 other senators urged the HHS to release LIHEAP funds as quickly and at as high a level as possible under the current continuing resolution. DeLauro is the senior Democrat on the subcommittee responsible for funding the Department of Health and Human Services, which administers LIHEAP.“LIHEAP is an indispensable lifeline during challenging economic times, helping to ensure that recipients do not have to choose between paying their energy bills and paying for other necessities like food or medicine. Connecticut families deserve the comfort of knowing their homes will remain heated throughout the winter season, and we applaud HHS for making this possible,” said the delegation. ###
10.14.2014	Originially published in The Hill on October 14, 2014. The La Brea tar pits preserve the pre-historic remains of mammals that were entangled in that quagmire and met their demise; even the mighty saber-tooth tiger found it was unable to extract itself from the tar pit that ultimately dragged it down to its death. The United States continues to grapple with extricating itself from over a decade of military involvement in Iraq. The confluence of world religions and the century-long tribal, regional, and religious disputes have entangled the people of the Middle East, which is metaphorically the equivalent of the tar pit. So any attempt to resolve conflicts by military force alone should be a clear warning sign for policymakers who know such an action would only further entrap us and leave us facing the fate of the saber-tooth. What is clearly needed before committing to prolonged action is thorough consideration of how we define the mission and what the exit strategy is – something that Congress must debate. This approach of evaluating how to determine the scope and timeline of military action was best summed up in 1998 by former President George Herbert Walker Bush, who warned us when he said: "Trying to eliminate Saddam, extending the ground war into an occupation of Iraq, would have violated our guideline about not changing objectives in midstream, engaging in ‘mission creep,' and would have incurred incalculable human and political costs… We would have been forced to occupy Baghdad and, in effect, rule Iraq. The coalition would instantly have collapsed, the Arabs deserting it in anger and other allies pulling out as well. Under those circumstances, there was no viable "exit strategy" we could see, violating another of our principles. Furthermore, we had been self-consciously trying to set a pattern for handling aggression in the post-Cold War world. Going in and occupying Iraq, thus unilaterally exceeding the United Nations' mandate, would have destroyed the precedent of international response to aggression that we hoped to establish. Had we gone the invasion route, the United States could conceivably still be an occupying power in a bitterly hostile land. It would have been a dramatically different--and perhaps barren--outcome." [i] How prescient he was. Now, we are facing a new threat in the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) whose barbarism and brutality have shocked the conscience of the entire world. Clearly, something must be done to thwart this group that not only has committed crimes against humanity, but ultimately poses a threat to the United States. The question is – will we jump blindly into the tar pit, or will we approach this enemy with the required strategy and coalition that will lead to the immediate goal of eliminating the security threat of ISIL and the long-term goal of finding a political solution to establish stability in the region? Make no mistake, left unchecked, ISIL poses a serious threat. However, defeating them will require diplomatic coordination, and support from countries in the region, our NATO allies, and the United Nations. I support the actions the president has taken to this point in using U.S. airpower to strike ISIL, providing humanitarian aid to those who have been victimized by them, and working with the international community to build a strong coalition. Yet, throughout this time, Congress has sat idle, abdicating its responsibilities to authorize military intervention- or even to debate it, as the British Parliament has done. It is simply unacceptable to prevail on our men and women in uniform who bravely serve our country while Congress cannot muster the courage to simply do its job, get back to work, and vote. This is a responsibility that can’t be postponed or put off until after an election, a lame duck session, or the next Congress. National security threats do not operate according to the Congressional calendar. The responsibility of duly elected officials is to vote. The authorization of the use of military force under Article I Section 8 of the Constitution is Congress’ responsibility. It’s Congress that must lay out the principles, the policies, and justification for action and fully debate and inform the public. To avoid the mistakes of the past, Congress must ensure that in any authorization that three things be clear: we cannot go alone, we will need more than military force, and we must have an exit strategy. To those ends I have introduced a proposal that would allow for the authorization of force, but contingent on the following principles that the president: Go to the United Nations Security Council, lay out the case for a multinational military intervention against ISIL and seek a resolution supporting military force; Build a broad coalition of allied nations to support and participate in such efforts; Seek partners in the Arab League nations who will actually commit and not just offer support. Present and explain his plan for eliminating the threat posed by ISIL; and Form a clear exit strategy Former Secretary of State to George H.W. Bush, James Baker, recently said that in order to achieve long-term peace and stability in the region, we must bring together the world powers and the regional interests who have the most to gain and lose to be involved in resolving age-old conflicts. He is right, that ultimately, any strategy that we have, must also have an eye towards a long-term political solution. Even as we are hopefully successful in dismantling the threat of ISIL, significant problems will remain in the region – ones that are beyond the capability of U.S. military force alone to solve. If we are to avoid the tar pit, we must learn from the past, engage our allies, and most importantly not plunge ourselves in without knowing how or if we can get out. [i] George H.W. Bush and Brent Scowcroft, A World Transformed (1998), pp. 489-90
10.08.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passing of Hartford firefighter Kevin Bell, a six-year veteran of the department who lost his life in the line of duty last night while battling a fire.“My heart goes out to Kevin’s family, especially his wife and daughter. The brave men and women of the Hartford Fire Department put their lives on the line to protect the city and its residents. Kevin embodied what it means to be a member of the force, selflessly putting himself in harm’s way to save the lives of others. My thoughts and prayers are also with the three firefighters who were injured last night. Chief Huertas and the rest of the department deserve all of our support during this difficult time.” ###
10.02.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (D-1), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn), Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn), Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra and Fire Chief Carlos Huertas today announced a $951,311 Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) for the Hartford Fire Department to be used to obtain 105 state of the art self-contained breathing apparatus, one of the most critical personal protective equipment items that firefighters use. In addition, the Department will acquire technical rescue equipment that will enable safe and effective response to trench incidents involving large vehicles, water/ice rescue and other hazardous situations.“This grant is a well-deserved recognition of the day in and day out hard work of Hartford’s firefighters and first responders,” Congressman Larson said. “I proudly join Senators Blumenthal and Murphy in congratulating Chief Huertas and the Hartford Fire Department for an outstanding job. The residents of Hartford including the hundreds of thousands of people who commute in and out of Hartford each day are safer because of this award.”“Hartford firefighters will now possess the critical technology and equipment necessary to respond to the most challenging emergencies, helping to save the lives of residents while protecting the health and safety of our brave first responders. This year, federal funds have made it possible for more than two dozen fire departments across the state to purchase life-saving gear. I will continue to advocate for additional federal resources that all of our emergency responders need and deserve,” Senator Blumenthal said."Few things are more important than supporting our firefighters and first responders who put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe. This grant will provide critical support to help Hartford's firefighters do their jobs more effectively and keep them safe as well. I'll continue to fight for these heroes as they fight for us," said Senator Murphy.“This FEMA grant will provide new state of the art rescue equipment that will allow for safer and more expedient extraction of fire victims,” said Mayor Segarra. "I want to thank Congressman Larson, Senator Blumenthal, and Senator Murphy for their consistent commitment to Hartford and, in this case, for helping to improve our overall public safety."“Everyone’s unwavering support has made this grant request a reality,” said Chief Huertas. “This Grant will allow us to increase and enhance our overall Operational effectiveness. This vital equipment will better prepare us to meet the day to day challenges that we will face now and in future encounters as it relates to high angle rescues, swift water rescues, protracted motor vehicle crashes and extrications. The men and women of the City of Hartford, Fire Department are ready and eager to continue their exemplary service to ensure Public Safety is not compromised. The residents and visitors to our City will be safer for all your efforts.”The Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program is administered by the U.S Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The program provides federal grants to help local fire departments and emergency medical response organizations meet their fire and emergency response needs. For more than a decade, AFG has enabled firefighters and first responders across the country to obtain much needed protective gear and equipment to protect the public from fire related hazards. ###
09.30.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that Portland Middle School has been recognized as a National Blue Ribbon School for 2014 by the U.S. Department of Education. Each school will receive a National Blue Ribbon plaque and a flag in honor of its status.“Congratulations to Principal Scott Giegerich, the staff, teachers, parents, and especially the students of Portland Middle School for being recognized as a model of excellence,” said Larson. “This coveted award signifies that the school has not only achieved academic excellence, but has created a safe and welcoming environment for children to learn and grow. This distinction is well-deserved based on their commitment to closing the achievement gap, and for challenging their students to tackle advanced coursework.” ###
09.29.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Governor Dannel P. Malloy, and the members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation today announced that a consortium of all 12 community colleges in Connecticut and Charter Oak State College have been successfully awarded a $15 million federal grant to launch the Connecticut Advanced Manufacturing Initiative (CAMI) – a project that builds upon the success of the state’s nationally-recognized Advanced Manufacturing Centers that are currently implemented at four state community colleges and expands manufacturing education to every community college in Connecticut.Governor Malloy explained that the state’s successful grant application represents a significant opportunity for Connecticut to maximize education programs in the advanced manufacturing field, providing more students with the skills needed to meet the challenges of 21st Century production design, innovation and manufacturing.Rep. John B. Larson (D-1) said, “I’d like to congratulate Manchester Community College for leading the consortium and all its partners for creating new and better opportunities for our state’s veterans, and providing a new pathway for Connecticut workers to get the skills they need to access good jobs in the manufacturing sector. Our community colleges have committed to driving our economy forward by developing a pipeline of workers for local manufacturers and providing today’s workforce with the skills and education needed for the jobs of tomorrow.”“A highly-educated and skilled workforce will provide leading manufacturers with the means they need to expand, increase production and create good-paying jobs with good benefits right here in Connecticut,” Governor Malloy said. “Time and again, I hear from manufacturers about their need for workers equipped with the tools necessary to fill some of these in-demand, modern technology manufacturing positions. To compete, we must show these employers that we are training our students for real-world jobs they want to fill. Our state’s four Advanced Manufacturing Centers have become nationally recognized in this field — expanding manufacturing education throughout the state’s community college system will show manufacturers our commitment to this emerging sector of our economy.”U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal said, “New technology has revolutionized manufacturing – and the skill training needed to do it – which is why this grant is so critically significant to Connecticut’s economic growth and job creation. The manufacturing skills instilled through these new resources will open exciting economic vistas and job opportunities for countless young people. It’s a solid investment in our state’s workforce, and a recognition of leadership by state and federal officials, including especially the Governor and Board of Regents.”“I’m thrilled that the Department of Labor awarded this grant to Connecticut’s 12 community colleges and Charter Oak State College,” said U.S. Senator Chris Murphy. “With this new funding, the colleges will enhance the recruitment, advising, and training of Connecticut’s manufacturing talent pipeline, ultimately creating new career pathways and opportunities for our state's devoted workers. I admire the commitment by Connecticut Community Colleges to invest in the economic future of our state, and this grant will enable the colleges to do just that.”“Connecticut’s community colleges are an invaluable resource for job training and retraining programs that will keep our skilled workforce at the forefront of technology,” said Congressman Joe Courtney (D-2). “I have worked to support Advanced Manufacturing programs at Asnuntuck Community College, which has excellent job placement rates for graduates, and am glad to see this effort expanding. It will benefit our economy and help attract new employers to our state.”“This kind of innovative center is the type of initiative we need across the country to restore and revitalize our manufacturing economy,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-3). “Technical education and workforce training are key pieces of how we fight the crisis of stagnant wages and limited career opportunities facing people across the country. Middle-skill jobs, which require more than high school but less than a four-year college degree, make up the largest part of Connecticut’s labor market. But many jobs go unfulfilled because not enough people are trained for these jobs. Until we close the skills gap families looking to move up the economic ladder through hard work will be denied access to good, well-paying jobs. Once again, Connecticut is leading the way and I could not be prouder of our community colleges for being at the forefront.”Congressman Jim Himes (D-4) said, “Housatonic Community College’s Advanced Manufacturing Center and others like it are critical to ensuring that we have workers who have the training needed for the highly-skilled jobs of the 21st Century economy. This important federal investment will help Connecticut’s manufacturing sector grow and it will expand education and economic opportunities for students throughout our state.”“I have heard directly from manufacturers and educators across my district, and it’s clear that we need to better develop our workforce for the highly-skilled, good-paying jobs of the 21st Century,” said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (D-5). “This funding from the Department of Labor will boost critical training programs and expand opportunities for those looking for a new career or looking to enter the workforce. As the manufacturing sector continues to grow in Connecticut, we must ensure that our community colleges, like Naugatuck Valley in Waterbury, are equipped with the resources necessary to meet both the needs of jobseekers and manufacturers.”“The Connecticut Advanced Manufacturing Initiative represents the very best of what we can accomplish as a system by expanding our successful advanced manufacturing programs throughout our 12 community colleges,” said Gregory Gray, President of the Board of Regents for Higher Education. “This funding will also align with the mission of Transform CSCU 2020 to expand manufacturing and training programs for workforce development in Connecticut.”“This funding will enable our colleges to educate and train the skilled workers necessary for advanced manufacturing jobs in our state,” said Board of Regents Chairman Nicholas Donofrio. “The Connecticut Advanced Manufacturing Initiative will help us respond to the needs of the state’s manufacturers and prepare students for the 21st Century global workforce. We thank Governor Malloy for his continued support of these programs and our students.”Specifically, the federal funding awarded today will be used to: Purchase capital equipment to upgrade the capacity of selected colleges to provide hands?on, industry relevant training experiences. Screen, advise, and guide advanced manufacturing students as they navigate the education, training, and workforce landscape. The colleges will partner with regional Workforce Investment Boards to replicate a sector?based model that leverages public workforce system resources. Engage all 12 community colleges in efforts to cultivate advanced manufacturing career pathways through strategies such as student recruitment, professional development for guidance staff, common competency assessments, online introductory courses, manufacturing modules in first?year experience programs, and pre?manufacturing programs. Strengthen industry advisory councils to ensure employer?driven training, support the development of Registered Apprenticeship programs and specialty training, and provide internships and permanent employment. Expand partnerships with technical high schools for the use of technical high school manufacturing labs that can be shared with colleges during off?hours, curriculum alignment, professional development, and opportunities for high school students to earn college credit. Increase instructional capacity by adding teaching faculty and educational assistants, and offer professional development and faculty externships to support the development of industry relevant competencies in students. Enhance the menu of advanced training technologies through strategies such as virtual learning, simulation, prior learning assessment, and online and blended courses. Introduce a three?semester model that deepens training in high?skill, high?demand advanced manufacturing specialty areas such as additive manufacturing, tool and die, and metal fabrication. This model will benefit unemployed participants and incumbent workers who need skills upgrades to remain competitive. Support efforts by the Connecticut Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship Training to develop competency hybrid?based registered apprenticeship programs for high?demand manufacturing occupations, and increase utilization of existing manufacturing registered apprenticeships. Support the expansion of state career pathways systems in advanced manufacturing through targeted capacity?building activities with state and national industry partners. Support the required evaluation and data collection responsibilities associated with federal funding. The state’s first Advanced Manufacturing Center was launched at Asnuntuck Community College in Enfield. In 2011 under Governor Malloy’s leadership, the state added three new Advanced Manufacturing Centers at Housatonic Community College in Bridgeport, Naugatuck Valley Community College in Waterbury, and Quinebaug Valley Community College in Danielson.Increasing the advanced manufacturing training capacity at the state’s community colleges collaborates with Governor Malloy’s initiatives to improve the business climate and increase manufacturing jobs in the state. For example: Earlier this year, Governor Malloy signed legislation establishing the Connecticut Manufacturing Innovation Fund (CMIF) to support the growth of Connecticut manufacturers while creating jobs for residents. The CMIF targets aerospace, medical device, composite materials, digital manufacturing, and other opportunities to innovate commercial products and services, and help industry drive enhancement in, or development of, products or services that strengthen the competitive position of Connecticut manufacturers. The state continues making ongoing investments to expand partnerships with Connecticut’s world-class companies and global-supply chains. These initiatives augment and combine the state’s best incentive and tax credit programs to attract new companies to the state, as well as encourage our existing companies to expand operations. For example, in May 2014, the Governor enacted an agreement with United Technologies Corporation (UTC), under which the company will invest up to $500 million to upgrade and expand its aerospace research and development manufacturing facilities over the next five years. During that time, UTC expects to invest up to $4 billion in research and other capital expenditures in the state, impacting more than 75,000 jobs in Connecticut. Enacted in 2012, Connecticut’s “Step Up” program helps small businesses train new workers during the first few months of their employment. The program provides either a wage subsidy or training grant of up to $12,500 to eligible small employers with a workforce of 100 or less for the first six months of a worker’s employment. Step Up has proven to be a valuable catalyst to help companies expand their workforce, and also includes an initiative specifically targeted at assisting veterans re-entering the workforce. ###
09.25.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) sent the following letter to Speaker John Boehner and Majority Leader Harry Reid today urging them to bring Congress back into session immediately. Dear Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Reid, With the recent air strikes in Syria, we are once again a nation at war. During such times, it is irresponsible for Congress to be out of session campaigning for seven weeks. Therefore I prevail on you to bring Congress back into session immediately. It is during these early days that Congress is most instrumental in determining the trajectory of our military action. Not only does Congress have the constitutional responsibility to decide when to provide authorization to use military force, it must also have a hand in defining the size and scope of the U.S.’s involvement. We must lay out the principles, the policies, and the justification for action. This can only happen through an open and vigorous debate on the floors of both the House and Senate, where the American public can tune in and hold their elected officials accountable. If there was ever one issue that needed to be separated from Washington’s highly politicized environment, it is this one. We ask our men and women in uniform to perform without regard to elections and no less should be required of members of Congress in carrying out our constitutional duties. This obligation becomes all the more apparent in light of President Obama’s speech before the United Nations General Assembly this past week. In that speech, the president called upon the nations of the world to join us in the fight against extremism. If we are to gather the international support that is needed to beat this threat, our government must be a model of careful deliberation and not give into the rhetoric and tone of a campaign season.As the House was making haste to adjourn as quickly as possible last week, I introduced legislation that would provide a responsible framework for authorizing the use of military force as a part of a coalition of allies. This is only one of a number of proposals put forth by my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that deserve to be fully considered and debated in a deliberate and open manner. Again, I prevail on you to bring Congress back into session immediately so that we can provide the American public an open and focused debate on the ramifications of actions needed in the Middle East. Sincerely, John B. Larson Member of Congress ###
09.24.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding the recent airstrikes in Syria: “It is clear that with the recent strikes in Syria, we are now a nation at war. “The authorization of the use of military force is Congress’ responsibility and that is why we have to lay out the principles, the policies, and the justification for action. We ask our men and women in uniform to perform without regard to elections and no less should be required of members of Congress in carrying out our constitutional responsibilities. “Last week, I introduced legislation that would provide a responsible framework for authorizing the use of military force as a part of a coalition of allies. I prevail on Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Reid to bring Congress back into session immediately so that we can provide the American public an open and focused debate on the ramifications of actions needed in the Middle East.” ###
09.24.2014	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passing of John Toner, the longtime former Athletic Director at the University of Connecticut, former President of the NCAA, and a prominent figure in intercollegiate athletics: “The passing of John Toner is an immense loss to the UCONN family and to collegiate sports as a whole. Throughout his long tenure as the Athletic Director, John was faced with tough decisions that would shape the future of UCONN athletics, and the unmatched success of the program speaks to his wisdom in making those decisions. From adding on a women’s varsity sports program, to joining the once unknown Big East Conference, to hiring two now Hall of Fame coaches in Jim Calhoun and Geno Auriemma, the sense of pride felt by any fan of UCONN sports begins with John Toner. I am extremely saddened by his loss, and I will keep my thoughts and prayers with his family during this difficult time.” ###
09.22.2014	East Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) met today with Dr. James H. Billington from the Library of Congress and Mayor Marcia Leclerc to discuss a future collaboration between East Hartford’s Raymond Library and the Library of Congress in Washington, DC. “I am pleased the Raymond Library and the Library of Congress are moving forward on a partnership that will benefit the town of East Hartford and the state of Connecticut. This collaboration will highlight Connecticut’s essential manufacturing role during World War II and the sacrifices of our veterans, Teaching with Primary Sources for our local schools, and connecting students here in East Hartford with the largest library in the world,” Congressman Larson said. “No one has been more dedicated to the preservation and expansion of our nation’s vast collection of literature, history, and art than the Librarian of Congress, Dr. Billington. Through this partnership, the Raymond Library will bring together educators, local businesses, and even other libraries to share in the wealth of the Library of Congress and Dr. Billington’s global digitalization efforts.” “The Library of Congress, with the support and assistance of Congressman Larson, is pleased to collaborate with the city of East Hartford, the Raymond Library, and local educational institutions to bring our unparalleled collections and digital resources to the citizens of Connecticut to advance the sharing of knowledge,” said Dr. Billington. Mayor Leclerc stated, “The renovation and expansion of our Library has opened the doors to unlimited possibilities including our partnership with the Library of Congress. This opportunity is a benefit for the residents of our town and the region.” The Library of Congress is the nation’s oldest federal cultural institution and serves as the non-partisan research arm of Congress. Dr. Billington has served as the Librarian of Congress since 1987. Under his leadership, the Library has expanded its public outreach with gatherings like the International Summit of the Book, and through the establishment of a World Digital Library that makes available on the internet significant primary source materials that tell the stories of countries and cultures from around the world. The Raymond Library opened over a century ago, serving the community of East Hartford. It is currently under renovation. When the Raymond Library re-opens, it will have increased to 14,000 square feet, with the capacity to provide computer stations, training programs, public meeting spaces, and improved access for visitors. ###
09.18.2014	Washington - Following the vote to authorize funding for the training and arming of moderate Syrian rebels to combat ISIL, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “No matter how targeted the decision to train and arm moderate rebels in Syria, any action taken in isolation misconstrues the larger responsibility of Congress. I voted no because furthering what may become a costly, complex, and open-ended military engagement without an exit strategy is wrongheaded. I commend the President for stepping up and starting the task of building a multilateral military and diplomatic effort to stop ISIL. Congress should not punt its responsibility while our men and women in uniform perform theirs.” ###
09.18.2014	Washington — Today, after the Senate approved former Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs Commissioner Linda Schwartz to the position of Assistant Secretary of Veteran Affairs for Policy and Planning, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut House delegation released the following statement: “We are very pleased to see Linda Schwartz’s nomination move forward today, at this critical juncture for the VA. As the Assistant Secretary of Veteran Affairs for Policy and Planning, Linda brings a lifetime of expertise and hands-on experience to an agency that needs more people like her in top positions. An Air Force veteran herself, Linda spearheaded efforts during her ten years as Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs to modernize resources—including the state veterans home in Rocky Hill—and expand access to critical supports and services. Linda has also worked tirelessly to ensure that Vietnam veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange receive the recognition and care that they deserve. As a nurse, an advocate, a veteran, and an expert in VA services, Linda has the qualifications, experience and dedication to help American veterans receive quality, timely care and supports that they have earned.” Schwartz was nominated in August 2013. The Connecticut delegation previously sent two letters in support of Schwartz’s nomination, in September 2013 and June 2014. ###
09.10.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: “Thirteen years ago, at twilight on September the 11th, Democrats and Republicans stood in unity on the steps of the Capitol against a common threat. This evening, the President said we are best when we act together. He is right. We need to put aside the partisanship and electoral politics, as we did thirteen years ago, and come together to act in the common interests of the American people. This requires no profile in courage, but only that Congress engage and vote. “The President’s remarks tonight should serve to unify the nation against the national and international threat of ISIS. I commend the President for consulting with our allies and building appropriate coalitions with NATO, members of the Arab League and the United Nations Security Council while informing the American people as well as Congressional Leadership of the threat that ISIS presents. “Two things remain clear – a global and regional response is imperative and the mission and exit strategy must be clearly defined. On those two issues, Congress should be engaged.” ###
09.05.2014	Hartford, CT – Last week, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Patrick Nelligan, Chief Warrant Officer Five (CW5) of the U.S. Army Reserve's 81st Regional Support Command Augmentation Detachment, with the ‘Legion of Merit’. Nelligan, a Bristol resident, was joined by his family and representatives of the Army Strong Community Center for the presentation. "Through his selfless efforts and sacrifice, Patrick strengthened a pathway for others who wish to serve their nation," said Larson. "I am honored to present the Legion of Merit to such a deserved member of our Armed Forces and join in thanking him for his work and continued service." While recommended more than two years ago, Nelligan had not yet received the Legion of Merit he earned due to delays in processing. Upon hearing of the delays, Congressman Larson petitioned directly to the U.S. Army Human Resources Command to process the award prior to today's presentation. The Legion of Merit is awarded to members of the Armed Forces who exhibit exceptionally meritorious service. As the Officer in Charge of Northeastern US Region Recruiting Assistance Program, Nelligan is credited with establishing an effective mentorship program, resulting in a 100% candidate completion rate in Warrant Officer Candidate School and a significant reduction in Non-Participant Soldiers and Unsatisfactory Performers during his tenure. ###
08.28.2014	Hartford, CT - U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Manchester Mayor Jay Moran, and Fire Chief David Billings today announced a $79,411 federal grant for the Manchester Fire Department to be used to purchase 38 portable radios and 16 vehicle radios. The new equipment will replace existing, outdated radios, providing the department the most modern communication technology available and better allowing firefighters to communicate life-saving details as fires and emergencies develop. The grant program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “Reliable communications are crucial to our first responders and the communities they protect,” said Larson. “With this funding, the Manchester Fire Department will be able to purchase the latest in radio technology. I am pleased to join in announcing this award today and know it will be used to help keep our firefighters and our neighborhoods safe.” “This grant will ensure all Manchester firefighters have access to the most modern radios available needed to communicate quickly and clearly in an emergency. Our brave firefighters risk their lives every day to save ours, and they deserve the most current safety equipment and technology available. At a time when local funding is often limited, I will continue to fight for federal dollars to ensure all local firefighters and first responders have the safety technology they need and deserve,” Blumenthal said. “These scarce competitive grant funds will be used for upgrading equipment vital to the well-being of our firefighters and potential victims, specifically, portable and mobile radios. I appreciate the delegation’s efforts to support these types of critical needs in our community,” stated Manchester Mayor Jay Moran. The grant is the 22nd firefighting grant awarded in Connecticut this year. ###
08.26.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: “The extreme violence and latest political unrest witnessed in Iraq has brought to light old and new questions about the region. As President Obama’s administration weighs several options, Congress should be fully engaged. “Rather than remaining at home second guessing and criticizing the President’s every move, Congress should be back in Washington and fully briefed. It remains unclear with regard to strikes in Syria whether the President needs Congressional authority. It is Congress’s duty to weigh in and clarify. As this serious situation continues to evolve, Congress has the responsibility to examine the issues and potentially vote on authorizing military force. “There is no question that Americans are weary of war. Given the gravity of the situation, their elected Representatives should be in Washington, working through these issues.” ###
08.15.2014	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $199,960 in federal funding for Winsted’s Northwestern Connecticut Community College. The Advanced Technology Education Grant will be used to continue development of their Manufacturing Associate Degree Education (MADE) program. “Large manufacturers and suppliers alike rely on the strength of Connecticut’s knowledgeable and skilled workforce,” said Larson. “With the expansion of the MADE program made possible by this grant, Northwestern Connecticut Community College will help strengthen the pipeline of workers for local manufacturers by providing greater educational opportunities to our current and future workforce.” "NCCC is honored to have received a grant from the National Science Foundation to pursue a college credit program in manufacturing technology. MADE in Northwestern Connecticut will take manufacturing training and education to the next level. NCCC has had great success with a non-credit pre-manufacturing program. Now the college will be able to offer an Associate Degree in this job critical area," said Northwestern Connecticut Community College President Barbara Douglass. “The grant was developed in conjunction with area manufacturers, the NW Manufacturing Coalition, and Oliver Wolcott Technical High School. I want to thank Professors Gusky and Holmberg for forging this new, exciting pathway in manufacturing education.” MADE is an advanced manufacturing technician associate degree program designed to provide students with the knowledge and skills they need to obtain advanced manufacturing jobs. The program will serve the needs of students, manufacturers, and economic developers by helping to increase the number of skilled workers in the Northwest corner of Connecticut. ###
08.14.2014	Click here for information about the 2015 - 2016 Social Security 2100 Act Fact Sheet | SSA Chief Actuary Letter | Social Security Works Endorsement Strengthening Social Security Coalition Letter Washington – Today, Congressman John B. Larson released details of the Social Security 2100 Act, H.R. 5306. Authored and introduced by Congressman Larson, the proposal stands to comprehensively strengthen benefits for current and future Social Security beneficiaries while keeping the program strong through the 21st Century: “Social Security is America’s insurance program. In fact, it’s the insurance you have paid for!” said Larson. “Social Security lifts Americans, including children, out of poverty and boosts our economy as a whole. This is a system we can count on, and by taking common-sense, gradual steps, we can ensure that Social Security benefits keep up with the needs of current and future generations.” “We applaud Representative Larson for sponsoring such important, visionary legislation,” said Nancy Altman and Eric Kingston, founding Co-directors of Social Security Works, in a joint statement. “In recognition of a looming retirement income crisis, an increasing squeeze on middle class families, and rising income inequality, Representative Larson has introduced The Social Security 2100 Act, which is an important step in addressing all three. Among other important improvements, it increases benefits for all current and future beneficiaries and switches to the more accurate CPI-E to better protect benefits from eroding over time. He pays for the improvements in responsible, balanced ways, including by requiring the wealthiest to pay more of their fair share and by increasing the return on Social Security’s $2.8 trillion reserve.” Larson’s proposal improves Social Security benefits by providing: Benefit bump for current and new beneficiaries – Everyone will see modest increase starting in 2015. Improved cost of living adjustments (COLA) by adopting the CPI-E formula. A tax break to over 10 million Social Security recipients by raising the threshold for taxation on benefits for individual and joint filers. Protection for low income workers because no one who paid into the system should come out poor. It would set a new minimum benefit that will be 25% above the poverty line. Social Security is currently estimated to remain solvent until the early 2030’s. According to the Social Security Administration’s Chief Actuary Stephen C. Goss, Larson’s proposal would make the Social Security Trust Fund fully solvent beyond the 75-year projection period (2088) and put the system into actuarial balance. Larson’s proposal keeps Social Security strong through the 21st Century by ensuring millionaires and billionaires pay into the system like every American, by gradually increasing the payroll tax on workers and employers starting in 2018, equivalent to 50 cents per week cumulatively, and investing a portion of the reserve back into the American economy to double the rate of return on assets held by the Trust Fund. ###
08.13.2014	New Haven, CT—U.S. Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), and Jim Himes (CT-04) today applauded the announcement that three organizations that serve Connecticut veterans have been awarded over $3 million in federal grants. Columbus House, The WorkPlace and Community Renewal Team are among 301 community agencies that will be receiving a total of approximately $300 million. The grants provide funding to local organizations to help prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and to help re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness. The WorkPlace in Bridgeport; Community Renewal Team in Hartford and Columbus House in New Haven will use the funding to provide a range of services that promote housing stability and play a key role in connecting veterans and their family members to VA services. “It is our responsibility to end veterans homelessness and fight for those who have protected the freedoms we all enjoy today,” said Larson. “They deserve the support of their nation, state and community for their sacrifice. This award will continue that effort by helping a number of organizations provide needed assistance and housing opportunities to our brave service members returning to Connecticut.” “As a nation, we have an obligation to ensure that, at the very least, the brave men and women who serve our country have a place to call home,” DeLauro said. “We have to be sure we are doing everything possible to facilitate the transition from the battlefield back to civilian life. These grants will go a long way towards helping some of those with the most difficulty making the transition.” “Our nation’s veterans fought to protect our freedoms and the American way of life; we must ensure that they have a chance to live their own lives with a stable home for their families and good jobs back at home,” Himes said. “These grants are an important part of supporting our veterans after their service. I applaud The WorkPlace on receiving this significant grant to support their programs this year. They have been a consistent ally of Connecticut veterans and I look forward to continuing to work with them to help all of our veterans achieve the success they have earned.” “Columbus House served close to 100 Veterans last year with Supportive Services for Veteran Families (SSVF) funding, providing cases management, employment services, legal services and short term financial support,” said Alison Cunningham, Columbus House Executive Director. “SSVF is critical to our efforts to end and prevent Veteran homelessness, and we are grateful to the VA for its support of this program.” “Since becoming the first Connecticut provider of SSVF, we have found it to be one of the best ways to assist truly vulnerable veteran households get back to stability,” said Lena Rodriguez, President and CEO of Community Renewal Team. “In the past year, we have helped over 200 veteran families – the majority of whom were literally homeless and lacked family connections or community resources to help them find stable housing. Veterans who are in shelters or living outdoors benefit from CRT’s intensive wraparound services that help them reunite with families, secure employment, and move to transitional and then permanent housing.” “Support Services for Veteran Families is a very important program which helps us meet the needs of our veterans and their families. We are very pleased to be selected to continue our work supporting this community,” said Joe Carbone, President and CEO, The WorkPlace.” “Our thanks go to Connecticut Representatives DeLauro, Larson and Himes for their support of this opportunity which will enable us to make a real difference for Connecticut veteran families.” The full list of Connecticut awards from the SSVF program is as follows: Community Renewal Team: $529,380 The WorkPlace: $1,281,624 Columbus House: $1,516,990 ###
08.01.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: “The frustration of the American people is only further underscored by the hypocrisy of Republican leaders who, while at war with themselves, continue to make our citizens the victims. “Instead of moving forward on comprehensive infrastructure programs to rebuild the nation, instead of making sure students can afford a higher education and those that have accumulated debt can refinance and restructure, instead of addressing comprehensive immigration reform, Republican Leadership spent the first part of this week suing the President of the United States and the latter part of the week writing a bill that ignores the issue at hand while providing special provisions for the Texas National Guard. “It’s beyond hypocrisy and a spectacle of embarrassment for a nation that deserves a government working on its behalf. A government that helps create jobs, provides relief and brings opportunity for our citizens. The American people will see through this political stunt and I applaud those, including the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the AFL-CIO and others for seeing this issue for what it is. “I pledge to continue working with those Republicans, as we saw earlier this week with the veterans bill, who understand that the concerns for the people must rise above the politics.” ###
07.30.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed The Veterans Access, Choice & Accountability Act of 2014, H.R. 3230: “Our veterans fought to preserve the freedoms we all enjoy today. These brave women and men deserve more than lip service when it comes to their government providing the benefits and health care they earned. While I would have preferred a stronger version of the measure as proposed in the Senate, I am pleased Members came together on a compromise today that addresses unacceptable wait times for care and includes care card provisions I have long supported and previously introduced in the House to provide avenues for veterans to obtain services from non-VA providers. “In Connecticut, I applaud the work of my Veteran’s Advisory Council. Their efforts have provided my office with vital information and needed direction on addressing this crisis since it first unfolded. I look forward to speaking with them on this legislation and continuing our work to ensure those who have defended their nation receive the services they deserve. “I also commend Representative Miller and Senator Sanders for doing what all of Congress could be doing – working across the aisle to do what’s right for our veterans and the American people. Congress should work together through August and stay in session until we address a number of other issues, including our transportation infrastructure, comprehensive immigration reform, pay equity, affordability of higher education, unemployment benefits and more impacting the American people.” ###
07.30.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined the entire Connecticut House Delegation released the following statement today as Speaker John Boehner attempts to push through a lawsuit against President Barack Obama in the final days before the August District Work Period: “We are extremely disappointed that, with so many issues still left on the table, House Republican Leadership is choosing to waste time and money on a frivolous lawsuit against the President,” said Congressman John B. Larson, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Congressman Joe Courtney, Congressman Jim Himes and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty in a joint statement. “Instead of voting on long-term transportation funding to give our construction and other related industries the certainty they need to create jobs and fix our infrastructure, House Leadership is attempting to sue the President. Rather than bring comprehensive immigration reform to the floor, House Leadership is focused on suing the President. As measures to reduce gun violence, provide equal pay for equal work, ensure our businesses have the resources they need to export and compete globally, and others to make higher education more affordable await action, House Leadership is wasting time and money on a distracting, meritless lawsuit.” “Leadership should end this political charade that will only waste time and tax dollars. The nation deserves better. The House should stay in session through August, vote on the issues that impact the American people, and get the job done.” ###
07.29.2014	Washington — Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut delegation released the following joint statement applauding the Connecticut Department of Insurance’s decision to limit rate increases on individual and small group health insurance policies for 2015: “Today’s decision is a victory for Connecticut consumers and a testament to the Affordable Care Act’s measures to empower state insurance departments to overturn unreasonable rate increases. Instead of an average 12.5 percent increase as Anthem requested or a 12.8 percent increase as Connecticare requested in 2015 rates, the increase will be limited to an average two percent and 3.1 percent, respectively. In addition, other carriers’ rate requests were dramatically curtailed. In particular, the decision cited the ACA reinsurance program as grounds for cutting the rate hike requests. The program’s cushion and robust review by the Department indicate a new era of consumer protection in Connecticut’s health insurance marketplace. We applaud the vigorous advocacy of the Attorney General and the Health Care Advocate who did so much in the Anthem case to ensure that families will have access to quality, affordable coverage in 2015.” Last November, the Connecticut House Delegation and others called on the Administration to utilize the reinsurance program to help ensure affordable rates. In June, the entire Connecticut delegation sent a letter to Connecticut Insurance Department Commissioner Thomas Leonardi encouraging a robust review process for rate increase requests for 2015. Click here to read the text of the June letter. 2015 rate decisions released today include: Connecticare: Requested 12.8 percent increase, revised to 6.2 percent; Disapproved, reduced to 3.1 percent increase for individual plans HealthyCT: 8.5 percent decrease for 2015 individual plans HealthyCT: 13.4 percent decrease for 2015 small group plans United Health Care: 2.5 percent increase for small group plans Anthem: Requested 12.5 percent increase; Disapproved, reduced to 1 to 2 percent average increase for individual plans ###
07.16.2014	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Election Task Force, announced the introduction of H.J. Res 119, a companion to S.J. Res 19, the constitutional amendment slated for a historic vote in the U.S. Senate later this year. The Democracy is for All Amendment will reverse highly controversial Supreme Court decisions like Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC, which have given corporations and the wealthiest donors the right to buy unlimited influence in our elections. “We need to give our elections back to everyday Americans,” said Larson. “The electoral process is awash with unregulated and undisclosed money. Recent Supreme Court decisions have continued clearing a path for special interests, millionaires and billionaires to drown out the voices of the people. This amendment is a vital step towards strengthening our system by reversing the negative impact of decisions like Citizens United, helping ensure our elections are not for sale to the highest bidder. I commend Leader Pelosi for creating an agenda to take big money influence out of politics and thank Representatives Deutch, Edwards, McGovern and the entire Task Force for putting everyday Americans first.” Yesterday, Larson joined U.S. Representatives Ted Deutch (FL-21), Donna Edwards (MD-4), Jim McGovern (MA-2) and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) to officially file the legislation. Click here to view a copy of H.J. Res 119. Since the 2010 Citizens United decision, Americans have witnessed an unprecedented explosion of big money in state and federal elections. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, outside spending tripled between 2008 and 2012, and 93 percent of the more than $600 million spent in 2012 by Super PACs came from about 3,300 donors, or .0011 percent of the American population. Sponsored in the U.S. Senate by Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), S.J. 19 was amended and passed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee on July 10, 2014. The provisions within the Democracy for All Amendment are the product of months of collaboration between the House and Senate sponsors of previously proposed constitutional amendments, constitutional scholars, and grassroots advocacy organizations committed to restoring the integrity of our electoral process. In addition to overturning recent rulings like Citizens United and McCutcheon, the Democracy is for All Amendment also reverses the Supreme Court’s controversial holding in Buckley v. Valeo that spending money in elections is a form of speech protected by the First Amendment. ###
07.16.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today announced a $1.2 million federal Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Recruitment and Retention grant for the Connecticut Fire Chiefs Association to help recruit and retain local volunteer firefighters. The funds will help support 15 local departments over a two-year period through marketing campaigns, mentoring programs, technology, planning, media assistance, and leadership training. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response grant program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “Volunteer firefighters provide immeasurable and life-saving service to their towns, responding with the utmost professionalism to fires and emergencies day and night. This grant will help recruit, train and retain these volunteers, saving local tax dollars and providing fire departments the resources they need to keep our communities safe,” the delegation stated. “The CFCA is proud to spearhead this program that sets out to increase the operational readiness of the Connecticut fire service as a whole to further improve services to the residents and visitors of the state of Connecticut. The CFCA thanks all of the Connecticut elected officials for their continued support,” said CFCA President Robert Shea, chief of the Portland Fire Department. “Retention is a critical portion of this grant. It is important that the each municipal leader work with their service chiefs in the development of incentives for their volunteers such as pensions, tax abatements and pay per call stipends during their budget deliberations each year. Towns save millions of dollars each year through their volunteer public safety departments.” The grant is the 9th firefighting grant awarded in Connecticut for Fiscal Year 2013. Stamford received $1.05 million to hire six additional firefighters through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) and Assistance to Firefighters grant programs administered by FEMA. Norwalk, Orange, Waterbury, Stafford Ambulance Association Inc. and the town of East Hartford also received grants to support operations and safety measures. ###
07.15.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of the Highway and Transportation Funding Act (H.R. 5021) in the U.S. House of Representatives: "Today, the House passed short-term transportation infrastructure funding. Now the real work begins. Speaker Boehner should cancel the August recess and allow Members to stay in session until we complete a long-term transportation bill. We owe our workers, trades, businesses and the American people the certainty of a long-term solution and I am prepared to join my colleagues through August until we get the job done." Congressman Larson has strongly advocated for transportation infrastructure funding, joining the Connecticut Delegation and Connecticut construction industry last week to call for a long-term solution and voting for an amendment in the Ways & Means Committee that calls on the House to pass a 6 year infrastructure package before the end of the year. The proposal was rejected on party lines in the Committee. ###
07.15.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation in asking the United States Postal Service (USPS) for a full assessment of its consolidation plan’s impact on employees in Connecticut. The USPS’s plan – which consolidates a number of postal processing facilities, and delays mail delivery and costs jobs in order to cut operating costs – affects the processing and distribution centers in Wallingford, Stamford, and Hartford. The USPS is planning to resume this plan which began in 2012. “We remain concerned that the closings of Area Mail Processing Centers and other facilities across the country may have an adverse impact on local and national unemployment and would further delay mail delivery for the American people. Given the importance of these facilities to communities in our state, we respectfully ask for a prompt and full accounting concerning the plan’s employee impact, as well as specific information about the implementation date and the plan’s timeline,” the delegation wrote. The full text of the letter is below. Mr. Ronald A. Stroman Deputy Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza SW Washington DC 20260-0050 Dear Mr. Stroman: We are writing to you regarding the U.S. Postal Service’s plan to continue the implementation of its network rationalization plan. This plan will affect the Southern Connecticut Processing and Distribution Center in Wallingford, CT, the Stamford Processing and Distribution Center in Stamford, CT, and the Hartford Springfield Network Distribution Center located in Hartford, CT and Springfield, MA. It is our understanding that the United States Postal Service will implement these changes as early as January 2015, and that said changes will be completed prior to the fall of 2015. We remain concerned that the closings of Area Mail Processing Centers and other facilities across the country may have an adverse impact on local and national unemployment and would further delay mail delivery for the American people. We appreciate your efforts to be forthcoming about these changes. Given the importance of these facilities to communities in our state, we respectfully ask for a prompt and full accounting concerning the plan’s employee impact, as well as specific information about the implementation date and the plan’s timeline. In addition, we ask that you continue to keep our offices updated about any other developments in this matter. Thank you for your consideration of these requests. Sincerely, Christopher S. Murphy United States Senator Richard Blumenthal United States Senator Rosa DeLauro Member of Congress John Larson Member of Congress Jim Himes Member of Congress ###
07.14.2014	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today announced a $488,750 federal grant for the State Fire Training Academy to purchase a pumper truck to replace an outdated twenty year-old apparatus. The new pumper truck will allow newly trained firefighters from across the state to train with the most modern technology and equipment available, increasing firefighter safety, enhancing educational opportunities and reducing repair and maintenance costs. The grant program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. “Our brave firefighters deserve the safest and most up-to-date equipment available, both as they respond to fires and emergencies in our communities, and in training. This grant will ensure that the newly trained firefighters at the Academy have the opportunity to learn on the most advanced truck available, providing them the modern training they need to serve safely and effectively, while also exposing them to the equipment that they are most likely to use when responding to real emergencies. We will continue to fight for federal resources for all of our Connecticut first responders who risk their lives each day to protect our homes, businesses and families,” the delegation stated. “The Department of Emergency Services & Public Protection’s Commission on Fire Prevention and Control which operates the State Fire Training Academy is thrilled about this grant opportunity. We are proud to partner with the State’s congressional delegation and we are honored to receive this vehicle acquisition grant for a pumper truck in our first year of eligibility. With budget cuts impacting municipalities and state government, this grant gives DESPP Connecticut Fire Academy the opportunity to replace an older pumper truck which was difficult and expensive to maintain while expanding opportunities for fire service training. The ultimate beneficiaries of this grant are our students, Connecticut firefighters and the citizens they serve,” said State Fire Administrator Jeffrey Morrissette. The grant is the 8th firefighting grant awarded in Connecticut for Fiscal Year 2013. Stamford received $1.05 million to hire six additional firefighters through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) and Assistance to Firefighters grant programs administered by FEMA. Norwalk, Orange, Waterbury, Stafford Ambulance Association Inc. and the town of East Hartford also received grants to support operations and safety measures. ###
07.11.2014	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the entire Connecticut Congressional Delegation continued their efforts to bring a long-term transportation bill to a vote, joining the Connecticut Construction Industry in calling for a long-term solution in 2014: “House Leadership should cancel the August recess so that Members can stay in Washington, do their jobs, and come together to fix our crumbling infrastructure and put the nation back to work. With the uncertainty of funding shortages already casting a shadow over needed transportation projects in Connecticut and across the country, we cannot afford to lose another opportunity to truly strengthen the Highway Trust Fund,” said Congressman John B. Larson, Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Congressman Joe Courtney, Congressman Jim Himes and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty in a joint statement. “A long-term measure not only addresses our infrastructure needs, but will help drive down unemployment. Further, we know that the best way to reduce the deficit is to lower unemployment and get people back to work,” the Delegation continued. “Failure to act on the Highway Trust Fund could cost Connecticut as many as 31,000 construction and transportation related jobs. There is no reason why any Member of Congress should not join in this united goal to address our infrastructure needs, put people back to work and lower our nation’s deficit. While we should ensure our projects are funded today, we must continue to work on passing a long-term transportation bill.” Earlier, House Ways & Means Committee Democrats offered an amendment (attached here) calling on the House to pass a 6 year, long-term infrastructure package before the end of the year. The Committee proposal was rejected on party lines, with 16 Democrats including Congressman John B. Larson voting in favor and 23 Republicans opposed. The Connecticut Delegation is prepared to stay in session through the August recess and into the lame duck session to ensure a 6 year fix to the Highway Trust Fund Program. “The construction industry and our partners applaud the Connecticut House Delegation for working to shore up the Highway Trust Fund for the short term, but more importantly, our state delegation is right on point calling on Congress to develop a sustainable funding source to support a long term transportation program.” said Donald J. Shubert, President of the Connecticut Construction Industries Association and Lori Pelletier of the Connecticut AFL-CIO in a joint statement. “Thousands of construction jobs, safe and convenient travel for the public, and our competitive business climate are at stake if we fail to turn this short-term fix into a long term program without delay. The Connecticut Delegation is right – congress needs to stay over the recess and continue through the lame duck session until the job is done.” Without Congressional action, the Federal Highway Trust Fund is projected to become insolvent by the end of August, jeopardizing transportation projects in Connecticut and across the country. ###
07.11.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of House Resolution 657, expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding United States support for the State of Israel as it defends itself against unprovoked rocket attacks from the Hamas terrorist organization. Larson is a cosponsor of the resolution, which passed today by unanimous consent in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Israel is our greatest ally in the Middle East. The ongoing attacks and hundreds of rockets fired on the people of Israel threaten millions in the region. I join in support of Israel’s right to defend against this assault and thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together behind this effort,” said Larson. Full text of the resolution below: Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives regarding United States support for the State of Israel as it defends itself against unprovoked rocket attacks from the Hamas terrorist organization. Whereas Hamas is a United States-designated terrorist organization whose charter calls for the destruction of the State of Israel; Whereas Hamas continues to reject the Quartet's core principles--recognize Israel's right to exist, renounce violence, and accept previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements; Whereas Hamas has killed hundreds of Israelis and dozens of Americans in rocket attacks and suicide bombings; Whereas since Israel's withdrawal from Gaza in 2005, Hamas and other terrorist groups have fired thousands of rockets at Israel; Whereas since June 2014, Hamas has fired nearly 300 rockets at Israel; Whereas Hamas's weapons arsenal includes approximately 12,000 rockets that vary in range; Whereas innocent Israeli civilians are indiscriminately targeted by Hamas rocket attacks; and Whereas 5 million Israelis are currently living under the threat of rocket attacks from Gaza: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives reaffirms its support for Israel's right to defend its citizens and ensure the survival of the State of Israel; condemns the unprovoked rocket fire at Israel; and calls on Hamas to immediately cease all rocket and other attacks against Israel. ###
07.09.2014	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA): “I applaud my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for coming together to reinvest in our country’s best resource – our workforce," said Larson. "By retaining flexibility and dedicated funding to respond to both regional needs and employers, this legislation will help us in our fight to provide job-seekers with the opportunity to achieve the simple dignity of meaningful employment. "As Connecticut and the First District bring together our manufacturing, aerospace, health care, and financial industries with universities and community colleges dedicated to overcoming the skills gap, we are quickly becoming a hub of innovation for the region and the country. With passage of this bipartisan measure, we are strengthening that effort in our state and will help keep our nation's workforce competitive in the 21st century." “We believe this bill will open doors for innovation in the workforce system and better alignment with job creation strategies to produce more impactful outcomes, so that we can get people back to work, efficiently, with the skills businesses need today and in the future," said Thomas Phillips, President and CEO of Capital Workforce Partners. This bill reauthorizes and reforms career development programs to get Americans back to work and prepare the incoming generation of the workforce to succeed. WIOA will create: A more efficient workforce development system by eliminating duplicative federal programs; State and local boards that are more responsive to the needs of regional employers and the tools to help job-seekers develop those in-demand skills/credentials; Better outreach for individuals with disabilities and disconnected youth seeking educational or vocational opportunities; and More support for Connecticut’s long-term unemployed and aging workforce. WIOA has already passed the Senate and the President is expected to sign it into law shortly. ###
07.01.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the deaths of Naftali Fraenkel, Eyal Yifrach, and Gilad Shaar: “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of those killed in this recent tragedy. I condemn the acts committed against these youth and echo our President’s support. As our community and the nation looks to honor these three individuals, I continue to join in calls to end the violence that impacts so many around the world.” ###
06.19.2014	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) released a letter sent this week to U.S. Senate Leadership urging the confirmation of Commissioner Linda Schwartz as the Assistant Secretary of Veteran Affairs for Policy and Planning. In their letter, the Members address the vital need for qualified leadership at the Veteran Affairs Department in the wake of recently reported misconduct. Following her initial nomination in August of 2013, the Connecticut Delegation joined in a letter of support for Commissioner Schwartz to the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs (view the 2013 letter here). In today’s letter, the House Delegation builds on the calls by Senators Blumenthal and Murphy to confirm Commissioner Schwartz. Full text of this week’s letter below and attached: Dear Senator Reid, Senator McConnell, Senator Durbin and Senator Cornyn: In the wake of the reported misconduct within Veteran Affairs (VA) medical facilities across the country, it is evident that the health care system still struggles to adequately serve the rapidly growing number of veteran enrollees without appropriate leadership. Although we commend our colleagues for their bipartisan commitment to care for our veterans, to assure accountability, and for passing a marginal funding increase to the VA budget, it is a moral obligation of this Congress to put in place qualified leadership to effectively guide the Department and prevent such misconduct. This is why we are writing to urge you to expedite the confirmation of Commissioner Linda Schwartz’s nomination for the Assistant Secretary of Veteran Affairs for Policy and Planning. Over the past few years, VA has made progress in improving quality and expanding access to care as well as diversifying its range of services, including mental health, housing, job training, etc. As result, 8.92 million enrolled veterans today receive access to superior resources and some of the best treatments available in the market. Therefore, it is no surprise that our veterans and their families rated VA services, in the American Customer Satisfaction Index, among the highest in the nation. Unfortunately, the VA System still struggles to overcome a number of longstanding challenges. Staffing shortages, shifting demand for services, and lack of availability of resources around the country still contribute to the chronic backlog. As you know, Commissioner Schwartz is an extraordinary nominee who has already received bipartisan support in the Committee on Veteran Affairs and is only awaiting a vote on the Senate floor to complete the confirmation process. She has years of experience working within the Armed Services, both on Active Duty and as a Reservist, and after her retirement from the United States Air Force, she continued to successfully advocate on behalf of veterans’ rights. Her tireless efforts were recognized by not only veterans, but also leaders on both sides of the aisle as she was appointed Commissioner of the Connecticut Department of Veteran Affairs by Republican and Democratic Governors. Over more than a decade of service as the Commissioner, she fought to modernize VA resources leading a multi-year effort to expand the state’s veteran home in Rocky Hill to help ensure seamless accessibility to services. She also organized “Stand Down” events to expand access to critical services to veterans in need and reduce homelessness in the state. Commissioner Schwartz has also served as the president of the National Association of the State Directors of Veterans Affairs and on the boards of state and national nursing veterans’ associations. She is an active member of the Governor Malloy’s Veterans Cabinet as well as the First Congressional District Military and Veterans Advisory Council; and, she serves as an Associate Clinical professor at Yale University where she received an MSN and a Dr.P.H. Commissioner Schwartz’s knowledge and experience working in veterans services are indispensable and exactly what is needed to help the VA make the most of its resources and prevent further misconduct. Many of our colleagues in the House and Senate have voiced the need for Leadership change at the VA. It is important that we empower the Department with superb leaders who are known to proactively find solutions to problems. We urge you as Leaders of the Senate to come together and swiftly confirm the nomination of Commissioner Schwartz for the Assistant Secretary for the Policy and Planning of the Department of Veterans Affairs because our veterans desperately need her leadership. Sincerely, JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress ROSA L. DELAURO Member of Congress JOE COURTNEY Member of Congress JIM HIMES Member of Congress ELIZABETH H. ESTY Member of Congress ###
06.19.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $152,492 in federal funding for the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, Inc. (CCAT). The grant, awarded through the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Community Development Initiative Program, aims to improve energy reliability in 28 rural CT Communities over a three-year period. Funds will be used to develop collaborative and innovative energy reliability plans utilizing DEEP’s Connecticut Microgrid Program to help rural communities operate essential facilities during electric grid outages and energy crises. “Collaboration is vital to increasing energy reliability and efficiency across rural Connecticut,” said Congressman John Larson. “This funding will help bolster our communities’ energy systems in the face of increasingly common weather related events and foster development through increased energy reliability.” “CCAT is grateful that the USDA will be assisting us and our rural communities to prepare for and avoid power outages,” said Joel Rinebold, CCAT Director of Energy Initiatives. “The execution of the program with Connecticut’s Microgrid Program will have direct benefits for increasing energy efficiency and reliability, and will also provide opportunities for the development of renewable energy systems, reduced energy costs, and economic development.” “As part of our focus on innovative ways to increase economic growth through technology, workforce strategies and efficiency, we are proud to be leading the team in this project,” said Elliot Ginsberg, CCAT CEO. “The project is critical to boosting the economic strength of our state and region through energy efficiency. Through the support of the USDA and the extensive planning to be conducted under this grant, Connecticut’s rural communities will have the capability to be part of the state’s Microgrid Program and expand their economic development efforts.” The USDA funded Rural Community Development Initiative Program intends to help community-based development organizations promote economic growth in low-income, rural communities. The Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection (DEEP) will support this statewide initiative by matching funds, raising the total project funding to nearly $305,000 over a three-year period. ###
06.18.2014	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Rep. Todd Young (R-IN) in introducing the Social Impact Bond Act, H.R. 4885. The legislation would foster the creation of public-private partnerships that harness philanthropic and other private-sector investments to scale up scientifically-proven social and public health programs. Under the proposed legislation, the federal government would establish desired outcomes to pressing social challenges that, if achieved, would improve lives and save government money. State and municipal governments could then submit proposals to work towards those outcomes—such as increasing adoption rates of teenagers in foster care, or improving the health and mortality rates of infants born into low-income families—by scaling up existing, scientifically-proven interventions. Private sector investors would provide the capital needed to expand the existing programs, and, if an independent evaluator were able to validate that the desired outcomes were met and money was saved, the investors would be paid back their initial investment plus a small return from the realized government savings. “Government is most effective when it combines the best our public sector has to offer with the entrepreneurial spirit and innovation of the private sector. By utilizing those partnerships to cultivate better outcomes for the American people, we can strengthen our efforts on social issues and ensure more effective use of tax-payer dollars,” said Larson. “This legislation will help create a pathway for the development of evidence-based initiatives designed to address some of the most difficult issues we face. I am proud to join Representative Young on this measure and look forward to continuing our efforts to produce more effective outcomes in Connecticut and across the nation.” “Social Impact Bonds have the potential to transform our nation’s social safety net by shifting the focus of such programs from inputs to outcomes,” said Young. “In other words, instead of arguing about how much or how little we are spending, policymakers should reward what works based on actual evidence. Whether you think government ought to do more to help our fellow Americans in need, or you think government needs to save money wherever possible, social impact bonds provide a solution on both counts. I've been honored to work on this idea with a bipartisan group of colleagues, including Congressman John Delaney and Congressman John Larson, and I look forward to our continued cooperation on these efforts.” Already in widespread use in the United Kingdom, thus far social impact bonds have only been utilized on a very limited scale in the United States. The Social Impact Bond Act is the first detailed proposal to adapt the social impact bond model for broad use at the federal level, and the first proposal to incentivize the realization of savings across multiple layers of government (i.e., federal, state, and local). More information on the concept and legislation, including full bill text, supplementary materials, and a list of supporters, can be found at https://toddyoung.house.gov/social-impact-bonds. ###
06.13.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Barack Obama's Iraq update: "As the President stated earlier, the next several days will be crucial in assessing how to move forward in Iraq. I support his decision not to put boots on the ground and appreciate his caution,” said Larson. “As I’ve said before, the United States cannot go it alone. This is a global and regional issue that requires multilateral support based on the certainty of our intelligence and the cooperation of our allies. “While it is clear the President has authority to act, we now know that Congressional authority was based on a false premise and information. Understanding the dilemma facing the Administration, I continue to believe the President should come to Congress. Further, we must provide the American people opportunities for public discussion and debate on our involvement.” Congressman Larson plans to announce an upcoming forum in the First Congressional District on Iraq in the coming week. ###
06.11.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the House floor to call on Congress to bring gun violence legislation to a vote. Larson has repeatedly called on House Leadership to bring gun violence legislation to the floor, including universal background checks, which are supported by 92% of the American people. View a video of the remarks here “Yesterday, the House of Representatives stood in solidarity and silence as we once again rose to acknowledge another death, another shooting, another loss of life at one of our schools,” said Larson. “We rose out of respect for the victims and their families. On average, there has been one school shooting per week. The American people are outraged. They no longer want Congress’s silence. They want to hear Congress’s voice. In America, the most important thing we can do is vote. The most patriotic thing we can do is vote.” Transcript of Congressman Larson’s remarks below: Yesterday, the House of Representatives stood in solidarity and silence as we once again rose to acknowledge another death, another shooting, another loss of life, again, at one of our schools. We rose out of respect for the victims and their families, as we have done repeatedly. On average, there has been a shooting, in a school, a week. The American people are outraged. They no longer want Congress’s silence. They want to hear Congress’s voice. In America, the most important thing that we can do is vote. The most patriotic thing that we can do is vote. But, in this chamber, we have yet to take up simple legislation on background checks. Now, let me be very specific about that. Pat Toomey, Joe Manchin, two of most conservative Senators in the United States Congress, put together a very narrowly constructed compromise that called for universal background checks to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill. This is not complicated. It is supported by 92 percent of the American people and 76 percent of the NRA. John Boehner, Eric Cantor, Kevin McCarthy, Cathy McMorris [Rodgers] are honorable people. They know what the right thing to do is. And the right thing here, whatever side you come down on this issue, is to give the people - in the people’s house - a vote. How many more times are we going to hear the pleas from parents who are crying out for Congress to take action? In a body where many people pride themselves on the right to life, why would we not rise to do everything to protect our school children? When I was growing up we used to have drills because we were fearful of nuclear annihilation by Russia. Today, our schools go through routine lockdown drills for fear of our own citizens. Congress has got to act, or Congress, as I’ve said before on this floor, is duplicitous in every single tragedy that takes place. Duplicitous because of its inaction. It is the morally right thing to do to cast a vote, however you feel on this issue. And, there are strong feelings about it, but the American people - and clearly the families of these victims - need to know that minimally, their democracy was willing not to stand in silence and in remorse as important as that was and is, but to take action and vote. ###
06.10.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R. 4810, the Veterans Access to Care Act: “Today the House put politics aside and did what’s right for our veterans,” said Larson. “The most recent reports are clear; we need to do more to ensure the brave men and women who fought for their nation are receiving the care they have earned. While I remain proud of the quality care Connecticut’s facilities are providing, this measure will address the issue of wait times across the country. I have been honored to discuss solutions with my veterans advisory council, who have long joined me in calling for greater choice and reduced wait times, and will be continuing our efforts to improve veteran services.” The Veterans Access to Care Act seeks to improve health care access and choice for veterans enrolled in the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system by reducing their wait times and allowing them to seek care at non-VA facilities if certain scheduling goals are not met. The measure also ensures that veterans can use their VA coverage at non-VA facilities if they live more than 40 miles from a VA medical center or outpatient clinic. Congressman Larson has long championed legislation to reduce wait times for veterans seeking care. Previously, Larson has introduced measures to allow veterans to use their existing VA coverage at a non-VA facility if their wait times exceed an appropriate limit, including the “21st Century Veterans Equitable Treatment Act” in the 107th, 108th, and 109th and 110th Congress. ###
06.07.2014	FRANCE — Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-02) released the following statement today applauding the creation of the justice AmeriCorps program. The program will provide cost effective legal representation to unaccompanied minors who come to America alone after being victims of abuse and/or human trafficking. “I applaud the Corporation for National and Community Service and the Department of Justice on establishing justice AmeriCorps,” said DeLauro. “Human trafficking is modern day slavery, pure and simple. We must work to provide victims of both trafficking and other forms of abuse with the resources and support they need in order to get the justice they deserve. I look forward to seeing the results of justice AmeriCorps, and the difference it makes in the lives of children.” "The Corporation for National and Community Service and the Department of Justice have done the right thing in creating a path for victims of abuse and human trafficking to obtain legal representation, especially for children," said Larson. "Public service is an important part of our democratic and legal system, and I commend AmeriCorps for working on behalf of our world's most vulnerable citizens. This program is a step forward in efforts to help those who've had these heinous crimes committed against them." Justice AmeriCorps is a joint venture of the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), and the Department of Justice. The program aims to have paralegals and lawyers represent minors so they do not have to attend immigration hearings alone and without representation. Hartford is one of the first 29 cities where justice AmeriCorps will launch, with approximately 100 lawyers and paralegals taking part nationwide. DeLauro is the senior Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee for Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, which funds CNCS. She recently led a bipartisan letter calling on Attorney General Holder to address the demand side of sex trafficking, which Larson also signed. Last October, DeLauro introduced a resolution committing Members of Congress in the fight against domestic trafficking. Larson is a cosponsor of that resolution, which declares “Our Daughters Are Not For Sale,” and currently has over 80 cosponsors, from both sides of the aisle. It condemns child trafficking and sexual exploitation, and encourages law enforcement to help victims and end these practices for good. ###
06.05.2014	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the Town of East Hartford Fire Department has been awarded $298,431 in federal funding. The funding, awarded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, will be used to purchase 40 self-contained breathing apparatus’ for the department. “Firefighters remain our front line defense against fire hazards and other related disasters,” said Larson. “With the purchase of equipment made possible by this funding, the East Hartford Fire Department will be better prepared to protect our communities and keep their men and women safe.” "I am thankful for the support from FEMA and the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program that will enable our fire department to replace its breathing apparatus equipment. Our fire department’s continued high level of service to our community is grounded in the integration of the skills of our firefighters and the use of the latest technology to ensure the safety of our firefighters during a fire operation," said Mayor Marcia Leclerc. "This grant award will ensure our ability to provide the best protection to our members as they deliver service to the residents and visitors to our community. The support from the FEMA AFG program leverages the Mayor’s support of the department to ensure the members have the best personnel protective equipment," said East Hartford Fire Chief John Oates. ###
06.04.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the EPA proposed guidelines to cut carbon pollution under the Clean Air Act: “We owe it to our children and our grandchildren to leave them with a healthy planet, which is why I applaud President Obama and Administrator McCarthy for taking meaningful action to put limits on carbon pollution,” Larson said. “This proposal will harness American ingenuity to bring our energy infrastructure into the 21st century with Connecticut companies poised to lead in deploying energy efficient and clean energy technologies from UTC Buildings & Industrial Systems, to our fuel cell manufactures, to small rooftop solar installation businesses.” According to the EPA, these new standards will create the equivalent of 78,000 new jobs within the energy efficiency sector in 2020. “The Administration’s proposal is the direct result of inaction by those in Congress who have been unwilling to accept scientific findings and have refused to take up legislation to protect the planet,” Larson continued. “When it comes to protecting the health of our children and families, Congress should come together to address climate change on a nonpartisan basis.” Congressman Larson has long championed a market-based solution to limit carbon emissions. Previously, Larson has introduced the America’s Energy Security Trust Fund Act, to put a price on carbon pollution and pass the revenue back to consumers through a tax cut. The proposed standards will reduce emissions from the nation’s largest source of carbon pollution to 30% below 2005 levels by the year 2030, giving individual states flexibility on how to meet the proposed standards. States such as Connecticut that already participate in the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI) could potentially use their existing program to meet the new federal benchmark. ###
05.28.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passing of author, poet, actress and teacher Maya Angelou: “Today, the nation lost a literary giant whose impact reached the hearts of millions around the world. Dr. Maya Angelou overcame great adversity before going on to receive wide praise in the arts, becoming a voice for justice and an inspiration for the American people. What she meant to this country cannot be understated as we look back at her work and honor a lifetime of achievement.” ###
05.27.2014	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passing of Moraith "Rae" Marra-O'Toole, Chairwoman of the West Hartford Democratic Town Committee and long-time community organizer: "Rae exemplified what it means to bring people together towards a better community. A tireless advocate for the American worker, Rae's leadership, intellect and friendship will be sorely missed. I am saddened by the loss of one of the kindest people I have had the pleasure of working with and will keep her friends, family and all those she helped along the way in my thoughts and prayers during this difficult time." ###
05.23.2014	East Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) joined Connecticut veterans today at the Veterans of Foreign War Post 2083 in East Hartford in seeking results of detailed audits to be conducted at all VA facilities. Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki announced his department would conduct “face to face” audits of all VA medical facilities following reports of falsified wait lists and widespread treatment delays at VA medical facilities, including allegations up to 40 veterans may have died while waiting for treatment in Phoenix, Arizona. Preliminary audit findings are due to the President next week. In a letter Friday to Secretary Shinseki, the Connecticut congressional delegation requested full details of those audits, including reports regarding the accuracy and duration of reported wait times for all appointments at Connecticut facilities, including the West Haven Campus, Newington Campus and all six Community Based Outpatient Clinics in Danbury, New London, Stamford, Waterbury, Willimantic and Winsted. "The recent reports of misconduct call for a full investigation of our VA facilities in order to ensure every veteran is getting the care they deserve," said Larson. "I have been honored to meet with veterans over the past few weeks on this issue and know that as this investigation moves forward, results of these audits must be made available to both make sure the needs of our veteran community are being met and to help prevent any future mistreatment. I join the Connecticut Delegation in our commitment to the men and women who have fought for their nation and will be following this auditing process closely as we move forward." “The more I learn of misconduct and impropriety at VA facilities around the country involving falsified wait lists and widespread treatment delays potentially causing deaths and injuries , the more concerned and outraged I become. These horrific and reprehensible claims merit a full, comprehensive investigation,” Blumenthal said. “While I am unaware of any similar allegations regarding such wrongdoing in Connecticut, a thorough audit of all facilities is warranted to restore public faith in the VA system and to ensure no other veterans are forced to endure the atrocious neglect and possible criminal wrongdoing alleged in Phoenix and elsewhere.” “The VA scheduling controversy that has impacted medical centers nationally is deplorable, and must be addressed swiftly and effectively. When I met with Director Culliton last week, he assured me no significant problems have been found in Connecticut. He and his staff deserve credit for having their focus on patient care, just as it should be, and must be for our veterans throughout Connecticut and across our nation,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT-3). “After startling allegations regarding delayed care and falsified records at VA facilities made earlier this month, it is of utmost importance that the people’s faith in the VA, including our local VA hospitals, be restored,” said Congressman Jim Himes (D-CT-4). “I urge Secretary Shinseki to share the findings of Connecticut clinics’ audits as soon as possible so that we can be sure our state’s veterans are receiving the timely care they deserve and have earned.” “What we’ve discovered across the country is very disturbing and needs to be addressed swiftly and effectively. I join my colleagues in the delegation in calling for full transparency regarding the accuracy and duration of reported wait times in our state. Our veterans have sacrificed so much serving our country, and they deserve the best treatment,” said Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty (D-CT-5). The full text of the letter can be found below: May 23, 2014 The Honorable Eric Shinseki Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Ave, NW Washington, DC 20420-001 Dear Secretary Shinseki: We understand that you are conducting “face to face” audits of all Department of Veterans Affairs clinics and that you are due to report your preliminary findings directly to the President next week on the scope of allegations of misconduct at Veterans Affairs facilities. Although we have spoken with officials in Connecticut who have assured us that no problems were found with wait times during a recent national level inspection, we believe all our state’s medical facilities must be included in the ongoing audit and the results be made public promptly. We respectfully request full details of this audit, and specifically all details regarding the accuracy and duration of reported wait times for appointments at the West Haven Campus, Newington Campus and all six Community Based Outpatient Clinics located in Connecticut. We urge you to provide both your preliminary findings and the final results to us as soon as they are completed. This week the President proposed a plan to investigate the falsification of records for wait times at VA medical facilities and restore confidence in the Department of Veterans Affairs. You must seize this moment of national focus on the needs of our veterans to immediately advance comprehensive medical care delivery reforms within the Veterans Health Administration. No further reports are needed to end the already documented and unacceptable practice of deceptive scheduling practices and misleading numbers on lengthy appointment wait times for veterans. Our veterans deserve the very best medical care our nation can provide, in quality and timeliness. We share your commitment to provide the best possible care for all veterans and to take all necessary measure to restore confidence in the Veterans Health Administration. We look forward to your response as soon as possible. Sincerely, RICHARD BLUMENTHAL United States Senator CHRIS MURPHY United States Senator ROSA DELAURO Member of Congress JOHN LARSON Member of Congress JOE COURTNEY Member of Congress JIM HIMES Member of Congress ELIZABETH ESTY Member of Congress ###
05.21.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL) announced the passage of a National Defense Authorization Act amendment that would require TRICARE, the military healthcare program, to ensure access to behavioral treatments for military families who have children with development disabilities. The measure is nearly identical to legislation Larson and Rooney introduced (The Caring for Military Children with Developmental Disabilities Act) which has received wide support from military, veteran and disability advocacy groups. “The House stood up for military families today- moving us one step closer to ensuring that children with developmental disabilities covered by TRICARE have access to the care they deserve,” said Larson. “The bottom line is that this is the right thing to do. I want to thank my colleague Tom Rooney whose steadfast work on this issue on behalf of military families across the nation has been integral in moving this forward. We must be doing everything we can to ensure that those who have sacrificed so much for our nation have the peace of mind that their children will be able to access the care they need. Passage of this amendment moves us one step closer and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure it is signed into law. “Families across the country face incredible challenges in raising children with development disabilities,” said Rooney. “I’ve seen this firsthand with my two nephews. For our military families, these challenges can be particularly daunting. Passing this amendment helps ensure that the children of our troops and military retirees have access to the health care services they need.” Despite proven effectiveness in helping children with developmental disabilities, families must navigate a patchwork of different policies, all with eligibility and coverage limitations, within TRICARE that allow access to a behavioral health treatment known as applied behavior analysis (ABA). Larson has joined Rooney in introducing a number of measures to expand access under TRICARE to behavioral health treatment, including ABA, for military families, including legislation earlier this month and the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288) in the 112th Congress. Click here to view a list advocacy groups that have expressed their support for Larson and Rooney’s TRICARE legislation (H.R. 4630) ###
05.20.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Reform and Development Act Conference Report (H.R. 3080), a bipartisan infrastructure bill that passed 412-4 in the House of Representatives: “Today, Congress took an important step toward improving our nation’s infrastructure by passing the WRRDA legislation. It is my hope that the innovative financing programs, such as the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA), which I advocated for and were ultimately included in the agreement will have a real impact on the infrastructure associated with our waterways, particularly the 70-year old levees protecting the banks of Hartford and East Hartford. This, however, was only a first step towards addressing our significant infrastructure problems. "The American Society of Civil Engineers gives our nation’s ports a C grade, inland waterways a D-, dams a D, and levees a D-. Funding for levees and flood protection projects are acutely critical to Connecticut and the Northeast in the face of a changing climate. Every dollar invested in pre-disaster mitigation or resilience measures can reduce the cost of damage by four dollars. “What we need is a Marshall Plan for our infrastructure. It’s time to set aside our partisan bickering and come together to develop a real plan to rebuild and repair our nation’s waterways, railways, airways, roads, bridges and broadband, and in turn, put Americans back to work. As Transportation Committee Chairman Bill Shuster said at my forum in Hartford last year, investing in our infrastructure is neither Republican, nor Democrat, it’s American.” BACKGROUND WRRDA will provide a boost to our nation’s water infrastructure by eliminating $18 billion of the Army Corps’ estimated $60 billion backlog, reforming the Army Corps’ broken project approval process, and creating innovative financing mechanisms to get private capital off the sidelines and towards infrastructure. The measure will move to the Senate and is expected to be signed into law by President Obama. The Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) will provide an opportunity for states and municipalities to access much-needed capital for water infrastructure through loan guarantees and low interest loans. This program is modeled after the U.S. Department of Transportation’s successful TIFIA program, which has spurred $60 billion in transportation investment since its inception. Earlier this year, Larson joined a bipartisan group of colleagues in writing a letter to the WRRDA conference committee urging the inclusion of WIFIA in the conference report. Last year Congressman Larson published an op-ed calling on Congress to take up WRRDA legislation. ###
05.09.2014	Washington - Today, Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) introduced legislation to require the nation's military healthcare program, TRICARE, to ensure access to behavioral treatments for military families who have children with developmental disabilities. "Access to health care services and treatment are crucial for children with developmental disabilities," said Larson. "Today, families serving our nation and military retirees face even greater challenges accessing that care. That's why we are continuing our work to honor our military families and ensure access to the care and services they deserve." "Families across the country face incredible challenges in raising children with autism and developmental disabilities. I've seen this firsthand with my two nephews on the autism spectrum. For our military families, these challenges can be particularly daunting," Rooney said. "Our common sense bill helps ensure that the children of our troops and military retirees have access to the health care services they need." In Washington, Congressman Larson and Rooney have worked on a number of measures to ensure access to treatments. In the 112th Congress, Larson joined Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC) in introducing the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288), cosponsored by Rooney. The legislation initially came after several issues with TRICARE were brought to light during an Autism Speaks forum in West Hartford. During the forum, Rachel Kenyon of Manchester, wife of Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon, explained that many military families face challenges with TRICARE, which now limits access to behavioral health treatment. ###
05.09.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4438, The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2014. Larson is the primary cosponsor of the legislation introduced by Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX). “The Research and Development tax credit impacts a large number of Connecticut businesses and manufacturers. By encouraging investment in innovation, companies and manufacturers are better positioned to create economic development and job growth opportunities. “Providing certainty and the ability to plan ahead is important to research, development and innovation and should be applied equally across the board to the alternative fuel producer and to the teacher at our local schools. I am disappointed that, rather than take up a comprehensive package of extenders, the Majority has decided to pick winners and losers and further ignores how this will be paid for. As Karl Radune, President of BioDiesel One in my district said, it’s the expiration of these tax credits time after time that prevent him from growing his business and bringing on more employees. “While I continue to believe that we should be addressing our tax extenders in a comprehensive, fiscally responsible manner, I will not let the perfect become the enemy of the good. Since my first term in Congress, I’ve worked with these innovators towards permanently extending and enhancing the R&D Credit. Nothing has changed since I was first elected when businesses and manufacturers told me that certainty to do long-term planning only enhances our economic growth and jobs." ###
05.07.2014	Washington - Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) commended the announcement that United Technologies Sikorsky Aircraft along with Lockheed Martin have been awarded the production contract for the Presidential Helicopter. The contract brings the Helicopter back to Sikorsky following pressure from Larson, DeLauro and the Connecticut Delegation on the Pentagon to end a previous contract with Lockheed Martin and the European based AugustaWestland after large cost overruns nearly doubled the price of the program and saw it fall six years behind schedule. “I commend the announcement that Sikorsky Aircraft will once again be producing the Presidential Helicopter,” said Larson. “This contract is a testament to the hard working men and women at Sikorsky. A part of our nation’s history, this helicopter is a great source of pride for Connecticut manufacturing. I look forward to seeing the President fly in a helicopter produced by Connecticut machinists who are once again building a part of that history." “Sikorsky has long been synonymous with Marine One, the presidential helicopter,” DeLauro said. “Every president since Eisenhower has flown in a Sikorsky, made right in Connecticut. I am thrilled to see this contract come back to Stratford where it has always belonged and where it should have gone in the first place. Congratulations to the dedicated men and women who make the best helicopters in the world.” Sikorsky has historically flown the President prior to the Lockheed Martin, AugustaWestland 2005-2009 contract. Following efforts that began immediately after that former contract was announced, Congressman Larson, Congresswoman DeLauro and the Connecticut Delegation wrote to then Secretary of the Navy Donald Winter in February of 2009 expressing concern regarding the significant cost overruns associated with the previous Presidential Helicopter, spurring nationwide attention on the program. In April of 2009, then Secretary of Defense Robert Gates recommended termination of that contract, citing it had fallen six years behind schedule. Following that recommendation and the cancellation of the previous contract, Larson, DeLauro and the Connecticut Delegation again wrote to Secretary Gates suggesting that a “solution might be to award the contract to the only other qualified competitor, Sikorsky’s H-92 helicopter, and team Sikorsky with the incumbent systems integrator, Lockheed Martin.” In today’s announced contract, Sikorsky Aircraft will lead a team that includes Lockheed Martin, along with Rockwell Collins, Honeywell International and United Technologies Aerospace Systems. ###
04.24.2014	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the Connecticut General Assembly approved legislation confirming an agreement between United Technologies Corporation and Connecticut. As part of the agreement, United Technologies will invest hundreds of millions upgrading and expanding operations across the state, commit to maintaining the Pratt & Whitney division headquarters in Connecticut for the next 15 years, and develop both a new World Headquarters and Engineering Facility and a new Research Center at Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford. “I commend passage of this agreement and the work of Governor Malloy, our lawmakers and the leadership at United Technologies to help secure Connecticut as the global aerospace hub. By confirming these investments, we are in better position to provide certainty to our manufacturing supply chain, including the over 450 Pratt & Whitney suppliers that employ thousands across our state. “From small and large tool-shops, small businesses and innovators, to the community colleges and universities training tomorrow’s workforce, Connecticut’s manufacturing ecosystem fuels job creation and economic growth. This agreement helps strengthen that ecosystem. I again praise the efforts of our Governor and look forward to seeing the impact of this agreement in East Hartford, Windsor Locks and other communities across Connecticut.” ###
04.12.2014	Originially published in the Journal Inquirer on April 12, 2014 This year marks the first time since 1983 that Pratt & Whitney will start production on more than 1,000 engines that will continue to ratchet up through 2017. While the great engine wars of the 1980s seem like a distant past, the many years that followed are a reminder of the transformation that has taken place. The recent success of the PWA Geared Turbofan, and the hard work of our delegation to secure single-source Pratt & Whitney contracts for the F-35 and the Air Force’s Next Generation Tanker, will sustain the next generation of machinists and will provide a springboard to the future of aerospace. The Governor’s visionary announcement in March will bring us into the 21st century by securing the long-term commitment of Connecticut’s largest manufacturer, setting the stage for our state to be the aerospace hub to the world. All of which has been made possible by our booming manufacturing ecosystem that we must continue to strengthen. What is that ecosystem? It’s the entrepreneurs, innovators, and small to medium-sized tool shops; our communities, universities, and community colleges. It’s the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), our economic and community development arm, and all the interrelated and interconnected relationships coordinated by the Malloy administration. How do we strengthen that ecosystem? By understanding the changing nature of our workforce, the future needs of employers and positioning ourselves to effectively compete. We know our jobs and manufacturing base is changing. Today’s factories look more like laboratories than your grandfather’s shop floors. Globally, advances in information technology, logistics and transportation have transformed how manufacturers do business. It wasn’t long ago that Connecticut housed a number of major manufacturing centers. Pratt & Whitney alone employed more than 15,000 machinists at one time. Those were the days when they brought raw materials in one door and shipped jet engines powering the world’s airlines out the other. Today, advanced manufacturing technology operations like closed cell manufacturing and 3-D printing can accomplish – with one employee and one computer – what once required a line of machinists. As competition and the nature of work changed, original equipment manufacturing (OEM) plants closed and new subcontractor machine shops opened, leading to a rise in our supply chain since the 1980s. Many jobs previously housed within companies like Pratt have moved to these small businesses. Today, Pratt has over 450 suppliers in Connecticut, with eighty percent of their parts sourced to those companies. Suppliers provide the foundation of Connecticut’s world class manufacturing base, including more than 40,000 aerospace jobs across the state: the second-highest number of aerospace and advanced manufacturing jobs per capita nationwide. Ecosystems combine a number of factors to create sustainable environments that improve as they evolve. The Connecticut Aerospace Reinvestment Act, recently introduced by Governor Malloy, recognizes these trends and positions Connecticut for the future. By committing their global headquarters to East Hartford for the next fifteen years, Pratt is providing certainty for Connecticut’s suppliers. Pratt is also showing its commitment to Connecticut innovation by agreeing to build a new world headquarters and engineering facility, and making renovations to the United Technologies Research Center. In addition, Connecticut is building its manufacturing workforce of tomorrow. The Town of East Hartford, Goodwin College, Pratt and Whitney, the International Machinists Union, CCAT and the state have partnered for the first time to build an exciting program aimed at ensuring a pipeline of skilled and credentialed workers. Connecticut’s legacy of innovation continues; since 2012, Pratt & Whitney has filed more than 700 patents and secured more than 340 in the last year alone. Whether it’s inventing, designing or engineering new products, area manufacturers are hiring new engineers and keeping the most highly-skilled machining in close proximity in order to stay competitive. Connecticut is and will be an aerospace hub. The recent announced investment in Connecticut by one of the world’s foremost manufacturers is more than encouraging for our future. The hopeful passage of that legislation, in addition to continued collaboration on workforce development, are the keys to fueling job creation, economic growth and Connecticut’s vital manufacturing ecosystem for years to come.
04.08.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the recently proposed budget by House Republicans. The U.S. House of Representatives plans to vote on the proposal later this week. "This week, the House will vote on a budget that guts services for our most vulnerable, breaks the promise of Medicare to our seniors and pushes higher education further out of reach for our students. Rather than work on legislation to help the American people, like reinstating unemployment benefits or helping close the pay gap, time will be spent on a budget whose misguided priorities will never be enacted. “Both Republicans and Democrats understand that cutting services for our seniors, students and disadvantaged while increasing protections for the wealthiest among us is not the right direction for our nation or the economy. Yet, this politically-driven proposal ends Medicare as we know it by turning it into a voucher program, increases borrowing costs for higher education, raises taxes on the middle class and cuts billions from food assistance. “I am committed to working across the aisle to maintain and grow the American middle class by protecting Medicare, lowering the cost of higher education and ending pay inequality for our minimum wage and women workers. This proposal drives Members apart when we should be coming together.” ###
04.02.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, condemned today’s decision by the Supreme Court to remove restrictions on total dollar amounts of aggregate contributions a donor may make in our elections. The decision follows a challenge to current limits in the McCutcheon v. FEC case, heard by the Supreme Court in October of 2013. “Today, the Supreme Court again moved to hand our elections to the wealthiest among us by allowing political donors the ability to offer the maximum contribution to an unlimited number of federal campaigns. “At a time when big money donors are gaining steam, we must do all we can to protect and encourage the voices of everyday Americans. That’s why I plan to introduce legislation in the House to fully reverse this latest Supreme Court blunder and reinstate restrictions vital to our electoral process on special interests.” Last year, Congressman Larson, Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (PA-01) of the Committee on House Administration and Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (MI-13) of the House Judiciary Committee joined 85 other Members in an Amicus brief calling on the Supreme Court to maintain restrictions on the total dollar amount of aggregate contributions. These include contributions to candidate committees as well as other non-candidate political entities such as political parties or PACs. ###
04.01.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 1557, the “Children's Hospital GME Support Reauthorization Act of 2013”. The legislation authorizes funding for children’s hospital graduate medical education programs and passed the House by voice vote. “We must provide our hospitals the resources they need to train tomorrow’s pediatricians,” said Congressman Larson. “Funding made possible by this act will continue to offer hospitals nationwide, including the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center, an avenue for educating our future pediatric physician workforce. I applaud passage of this important, bipartisan legislation that will help improve the health of our children for years to come. Children’s hospital graduate medical programs receive federal funding towards education and training for resident physicians. Serving as the Pediatrics Department for the University of Connecticut School of Medicine, the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center has trained over 200 new pediatricians, with more than 80 currently practicing in state. ###
04.01.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the White House announced that more than 7 million nationwide have signed up for private health insurance under the Affordable Care Act: “Seven million is a great start. I am pleased by the progress we have made in Connecticut and many other states in providing quality healthcare to those with preexisting conditions, youth, women and families. We must continue to improve this important legislation that can help strengthen our healthcare system, while also working to drive down the deficit. For the nation to move forward, Congress must come together for the American people.” ###
04.01.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after Ways & Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp announced he would not seek reelection: “Chairman Camp has earned the respect of people on both sides of the aisle for the integrity, fairness and intellect he brought to the job," said Congressman Larson. "His leadership along with his commitment to the people of Michigan and the nation will be missed. I wish Dave, Nancy and his family all the best and look forward to working with him for the remainder of his term." ###
03.27.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on H.R. 4302, the “Protecting Access to Medicare Act.” The twelve month patch to the Medicare payment system is opposed by a large number of physician groups across the nation: “I stand firm with our doctors and Medicare beneficiaries – we must stop politicizing the Medicare payment system. “Coming together to fix the broken Medicare physician formula is long overdue. Members on both sides of the aisle, and both sides of the Capitol, already developed a permanent, bipartisan policy fix that provides certainty to our healthcare community, and there is a verifiable, valid way to pay for this by utilizing savings associated with the drawdown of troops in Afghanistan. Rather than continue a bipartisan process to find agreement on an offset, this bill is a signal to physicians and Medicare beneficiaries that Congress will not address a permanent solution until at least next year. That’s why I opposed this piecemeal approach that will do nothing to help our seniors and only exacerbates the problem.” ###
03.27.2014	Washington - Today Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Tom Rooney (R-FL) released the following statement after the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) released the latest data showing 1 in 68 American children are now living with autism: “Autism presents families across the nation with unique challenges. These families and children deserve access to the care and services they need,” Larson and Rooney said in a joint statement. “With 1 in 68 American children having an autism diagnosis, it is clear we must work together to address challenges that touch millions of families, including those currently serving in our military. “Over the past several years, we’ve heard from military families that have children with an autism diagnosis who are concerned with access to treatment under their current coverage. Today’s announcement further reinforces the need for Congress to work together towards improving access and coverage of evidence-based treatment services for these families, many who are actively serving their nation. “We plan to reintroduce legislation in the near term aimed at expanding access to treatment vital to the development of our children and the wellbeing of our military families.” Congressman Larson has joined Congressman Rooney in introducing several provisions in the House to expand access to behavioral health treatment for military families under TRICARE, including the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288) in the 112th Congress. ###
03.26.2014	Washington – Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Joe Courtney(CT-02), Jim Himes (CT-04) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) released the following joint statement today after the Connecticut General Assembly approved legislation to raise the Connecticut minimum wage to $10.10 per hour by 2017: “Connecticut and Governor Malloy are doing the right thing by continuing to lead the country on fair wages, and we applaud the state General Assembly for taking this important step forward in improving the lives of Connecticut's working families. Now it is time for Congress to increase the federal minimum wage and ensure all hardworking Americans have the same opportunities as those in Connecticut.” The entire Connecticut House delegation has cosponsored the Fair Minimum Wage Act, H.R. 1010, which would raise the federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $10.10 per hour over the next three years. ###
03.14.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on H.R. 4015, The SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014. The amended version considered today attaches a five-year delay to the individual responsibility provision under the Affordable Care Act to a much-needed fix to the Medicare payment system. This marks the 51st attempt to delay or repeal the ACA. “This legislation fails to provide certainty for our healthcare community. I am disappointed that after months of bipartisan and bicameral work, House Republican Leadership moved to gain political points rather than fix the Medicare payment system. “The House cannot waste time on politics while our seniors’ access to healthcare is threatened. In the next month, physicians could see significant cuts to Medicare payments unless Congress acts. We must work together and finally fix a problem that has long impacted doctors and patients.” ###
03.12.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the announcement that Senator Richard Blumenthal will chair the Armed Services Airland Subcommittee: “Senator Richard Blumenthal’s new chairmanship is great news for Connecticut. As Chair of the Armed Services Airland Subcommittee, Senator Blumenthal will play an important role in the future of aerospace and U.S. military operations. In Connecticut, this position is crucial to a defense base that fuels our supply chain and employs thousands of residents. I am thrilled to see Senator Blumenthal step up as a leader for our state and this critical industry for the nation’s defense and look forward to working with him in his new role in Washington.” ###
03.05.2014	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Barack Obama's remarks at Central Connecticut State University: "Today the President brought his fight for an increased minimum wage to Connecticut. I commend his efforts for our working families. From providing fairer pay and strengthening job training to helping students gain the education they deserve, the President is working to move our nation forward. I thank Governor Malloy for his leadership on an issue that impacts so many in our state and look forward to continuing my work with the Connecticut delegation in Washington." ###
02.26.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after Governor Dannel P. Malloy joined in announcing a $500 million investment by United Technologies Corporation in Connecticut. The investment will upgrade and expand operations across the state, including major development at East Hartford’s Pratt and Whitney. “Today’s announcement by Governor Malloy of a $500 million commitment to upgrade and expand United Technologies’ operations in Connecticut will not only keep the eagle flying; it will make the eagle soar. “Connecticut defense and its manufacturing base are moving forward. I was proud to work alongside Republican colleagues to ensure Pratt builds the only engine for the F-35, bolstering work for a generation of machinists. We have also seen the development of the Geared Turbofan by Pratt, who have already received thousands of orders, in addition to the Air Forces Next Generation Tanker to be built in America. "For the first time since 1983, Pratt & Whitney will see more than a 1,000 engines manufactured in 2016, representing the efforts of the hard working men and women at Pratt and the efforts of our delegation. “I again applaud the work of Governor Malloy and the leadership at United Technologies for investing in Connecticut’s workforce and bringing certainty to our manufacturing supply chain. The announcement today brings each of these efforts together, signaling the bright future of Connecticut aerospace manufacturing." As part of the investment, UTC has committed to maintaining the Pratt & Whitney division headquarters in Connecticut for the next 15 years. Funding will be used to develop both a new World Headquarters and Engineering Facility and a new Research Center at Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford, build new engineering labs and renovate an Aerospace systems facility at UTC in Windsor Locks and improve Sikorsky facilities in Stratford. ###
02.20.2014	New Haven, CT — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut’s delegation to the House of Representatives wrote to Director of the Veterans Affairs CT Healthcare System, Gerald F. Culliton, requesting a status update on how they are meeting the recommendations outlined in a recent Inspector General report. The letter can be viewed here. “We understand that since the report was issued in June, the Center has taken steps to implement the Inspector General’s recommendations,” they wrote. “We want to work with you to fully and swiftly implement all the report’s recommendations to ensure the brave men and women who sacrificed for our country get the proper care they deserve…With final implementation of policies to sustain these changes required by the IG by March 15, 2014, we respectfully request that you provide us with a status report on the IG recommendations met and plan for fully meeting all recommendations within the next month.” According to the IG report: Cleaning procedures in the operating room were not being performed appropriately There were insufficient staff resources assigned to the operating room (OR) Recognized industry standards for cleaning were not being met Patients with infectious diseases who may require special precautions were being scheduled for procedures with patients who were not infectious OR staff were not always made aware of an infectious patient’s status prior to the patient’s arrival ###
02.11.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 540, “Clean Debt Limit Increase”: "Tonight, Members did their jobs by voting to ensure our nation's bills are paid. "Extending the debt limit through 2014 without strings attached strengthens the ability of our businesses and local stakeholders to plan ahead. I thank Speaker Boehner for his vote and am pleased to see both sides of the aisle come together to pass this important legislation. "While this is good news for the nation, we still have work ahead of us. I am encouraged by tonight’s vote and know that if we work together to break through partisan politics in Washington, we can help Americans across the country.” ###
02.11.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed S. 25. The legislation extends sequester cuts to Medicare in order to repeal recent changes to military retiree cost of living adjustments. “Today, the House voted to address changes to cost of living adjustments for military retirees on the backs of our seniors. The measure passed today was the wrong way to go for the nation, pitting supporting our veterans against supporting our seniors. “Last year, Democrats and Republicans came together to pass a budget. While the budget steered our nation away from another fiscal cliff, certain provisions needed to be revisited. I joined Members in calling for a fix to the COLA changes, cosponsoring various measures by Representatives Maffei and Miller and standing in support of the Senate version of today’s legislation. “Despite the crucial need to fix changes to military retiree benefits, I could not vote on extending Medicare cuts to pay for it as big oil and big agribusiness continue to receive tax breaks and federal funding. From last month’s farm bill to today’s vote, politics as usual is failing the nation." ###
02.10.2014	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Jim Himes (CT-04), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) condemned the violence in Ukraine, calling for a peaceful solution to the current crisis. All five Members are cosponsors of House Resolution 447, supporting the democratic and European aspirations of the people of Ukraine and urging continued collaboration between the United States and the European Union. “The people of Ukraine should not be afraid to express their democratic rights. It is crucial that we work with the international community towards a peaceful solution and urge those responsible for harm against demonstrators and others to be held accountable. The government of Ukraine should engage its people in the country’s recovery rather than impose division and violence. All citizens must have a right to advocate for their futures without fear of retribution,” said the Representatives. The U.S. House of Representatives is scheduled to bring House Resolution 447 to a vote later today. Full text of the resolution here:Supporting the democratic and European aspirations of the people of Ukraine, and their right to choose their own future free of intimidation and fear. Whereas a democratic, prosperous, and independent Ukraine is in the national interest of the United States; Whereas closer relations with the European Union (EU) through the signing of an Association Agreement will promote democratic values, good governance, and economic opportunity in Ukraine; Whereas millions of Ukrainian citizens support closer relations with Europe and the signing of an Association Agreement; Whereas the Government of Ukraine has declared integration with Europe a national priority and has made significant progress toward meeting the requirements for the Association Agreement; Whereas Ukraine has the sovereign right to enter into voluntary partnerships of its choosing, in keeping with its interests; Whereas Ukraine's closer relations with the EU do not threaten any other country, and will benefit both Ukraine and its neighbors; Whereas on November 21, 2013, following several months of intense outside pressure, Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych abruptly suspended negotiations on the Association Agreement one week before it was due to be signed at the EU's Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius, Lithuania; Whereas this reversal of stated government policy precipitated demonstrations by hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens in Kyiv as well as in cities throughout the country; Whereas the demonstrators have been overwhelmingly peaceful and have sought to exercise their constitutional rights to freely assemble and express their opposition to President Yanukovych's decision, as well as their support for greater government accountability and closer relations with Europe; Whereas on November 30, 2013, police violently dispersed peaceful demonstrators in Kyiv's Independence Square, resulting in many injuries and the arrest of several dozen individuals; Whereas on December 11, 2013, police raided 3 opposition media outlets and the headquarters of an opposition party; Whereas on December 11, 2013, despite President Yanukovych's statement the previous day that he would engage in talks with the opposition, police attempted to forcibly evict peaceful protesters from central locations in Kyiv; and Whereas United States, European, and other leaders, as well as 3 former presidents of Ukraine, have urged restraint and warned against the use of violence against peaceful protesters, and have called for dialogue with the opposition to resolve the current political and economic crisis: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives Greatly values the warm and close relationship the United States has established with Ukraine since that country regained its independence in 1991; Supports the democratic and European aspirations of the people of Ukraine, and their right to choose their own future free of intimidation and fear; Calls on the United States and the European Union to continue to work together to support a peaceful resolution to the crisis, and to continue to support the desire of millions of Ukrainian citizens for closer relations with Europe through the signing of an Association Agreement, as well as for a democratic future; Urges the Government of Ukraine, Ukrainian opposition parties, and all protesters to exercise the utmost restraint and avoid confrontation, and calls on the Government of Ukraine to live up to its international obligations and respect and uphold the democratic rights of its citizens, including the freedom of assembly and expression, as well as the freedom of the press; Calls on the Government of Ukraine to bring to justice those responsible for violence against peaceful protesters, and to release and drop criminal charges against those detained for exercising their democratic rights; Urges the United States and the European Union to continue to make clear to Ukraine's leaders that those who authorize or engage in violence against peaceful protesters will be held personally accountable; States that in the event of further violence by government authorities against peaceful protesters, the United States House of Representatives may consider targeted sanctions against those who authorize or engage in this use of force; and Urges all parties to engage in constructive, sustained dialogue in order to find a peaceful solution to Ukraine's current political and economic crisis. ###
02.06.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after Governor Dannel P. Malloy unveiled his agenda for Connecticut: "Today Governor Malloy showed why he is leading Connecticut into the future. I was pleased to see an emphasis on education in this year’s agenda as well as efforts to end veterans homelessness, raise the minimum wage, strengthen our economy and his continued focus on jobs. “As a former teacher, I am very encouraged by the education initiatives that Governor Malloy outlined in his address. From early childhood education and the community college system to investing in manufacturing programs, our Governor is working to strengthen both the development of our students and the ability of residents to receive the training and education necessary for a rewarding career. “I was also pleased to hear our Governor’s pledge to end veterans homelessness by bolstering avenues for retired service members to find a home. He is right to honor their sacrifice by moving to eliminate homelessness among our veteran population through increased housing and additional assistance towards security deposits. “I am heartened by the vision laid out by Governor Malloy today and look forward to seeing Connecticut’s continued progress under his direction.” ###
02.05.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, continued his efforts to reduce the influence of big money in politics by joining as an original co-sponsor of the Government By the People Act (H.R. 20). The bipartisan bill establishes a voluntary, competitive alternative to big money politics in House races by empowering everyday Americans in our elections and providing resources to fight against big, outside spending. Introduced by Congressman John Sarbanes (MD-D), the bill is a piece of the comprehensive approach to reforming campaigns and elections promoted by the Task Force which also includes increased disclosure and transparency of PAC donations, amending the Constitution to undo Citizens United and upholding voting rights nationwide. “Bringing our elections back to the people empowers everyday Americans and strengthens our democracy. We must protect the voice of every voter in the face of efforts to drown them out,” said Larson. “That’s why I have advocated for taking big money out of politics and why we must continue to push initiatives that support small donors. This bill would create incentives for candidates to seek out small-dollar donations from average Americans so that their voices can be heard over the outsized spending of the super-wealthy and Washington special interests.” “I want to thank Representative Sarbanes for his impassioned leadership on this issue, as well as acknowledge the contributions of Representatives Price, Yarmuth, Pingree and other members of the Task Force on Election Reform, and Leader Nancy Pelosi for continuing to make election reform a top priority.” The Government By the People Act includes provisions that: Empower everyday Americans by creating the My Voice Tax Credit. Encouraging all Americans to participate in campaigns with a $25 tax credit for small donors and generating more small contributions to candidates for Congress will reduce Congress’s dependence on big money interests. Amplify the voice of the people. To strengthen the voice of everyday Americans in campaigns, small contributions will be matched by a new Freedom From Influence Fund, provided the candidate forgoes big money special interests and enjoys broad-based support from small donors. Prevent Super PACs and other dark money interests from drowning out the voice of the people. To counter the unlimited spending that bombards the airwaves in the final weeks of elections, citizen-funded candidates would have access to more resources to fight back against outside spending and ensure the peoples’ voice is heard in the last 60 days of a campaign. Previously introducing the Fair Elections Now Act (FENA) in the House, Congressman Larson has long called for comprehensive election reform. In order to fix our broken electoral system, the Task Force on Election Reform’s approach also includes disclosing the sources of the money in our campaigns, amending the Constitution to overturn the grievous error of the Citizens United decision and empowering citizens everywhere to exercise their right to vote. The Government By the People Act has received support from Americans for Campaign Reform, Common Cause, Public Campaign, Public Citizen, U.S. PIRG, NAACP, Sierra Club and United Auto Workers. ###
02.04.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after Governor Dannel P. Malloy announced his proposal to raise Connecticut’s minimum wage to $10.10 by 2017: “I commend Governor Malloy on his proposal, which supports Connecticut workers. Across the state, many are struggling to balance the cost of living with the current minimum wage. In taking this matter into his own hands, the Governor is strengthening our economy and meeting the needs of our working class. “By raising the minimum wage, families, women and other individuals impacted would be in a better position to reinvest in our economy, pay for their homes, feed their children and stay above the poverty line. House Democrats have been working for years to pass legislation that increases the minimum wage to $10.10, and the real effort began with the start of the 113th Congress and President Obama’s call to action during his State of the Union address. Today’s announced proposal is a proactive step for Connecticut as we continue to work on this issue in Washington.” ###
02.04.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced an amendment to the Ways & Means Committee seeking the reauthorization of a tax break for volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel. Mirroring legislation introduced by Congressman Larson in January, the amendment renews a tax exemption to aid in the recruitment, retention and recognition of volunteer first responders. “Nearly three quarters of our firefighter force are volunteers, providing over $140 billion in services across the nation," said Larson. "Providing tax incentives to our communities will enhance local recruiting and retention while supporting the recognition of their sacrifice. This is a simple and straightforward step to support these brave volunteers.” In January, Congressman Larson introduced the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act (VRIPRA) in order to reauthorize the tax break. Originally introduced by Larson, the break was first authorized in 2007 and expired in 2010. The legislation has received support from the Congressional Fire Services Institute, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Association of Towns and Townships and National Volunteer Fire Council. Larson introduced the amendment during a markup of H.R. 3979, the "Protecting Volunteer Firefighters and Emergency Responders Act". The act would codify a previous decision by the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service not to count volunteer hours of volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel when determining an employer’s full-time employees under the Affordable Care Act. The Treasury and IRS decision followed a call for guidance from various departments as well as requests for clarification from Congressman Larson and the Connecticut Delegation. ###
02.03.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the announced retirement of Congressman Henry Waxman of California: “Throughout his career, Congressman Henry Waxman fought to improve the lives of every generation. A dogged advocate for seniors, youth and families, Henry led the way in efforts to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid and provide affordable, quality health coverage across the country. His efforts to both reduce pollution and understand climate change are already helping to protect our environment for years to come. “Whether working on health, energy, environment or commerce, Henry’s determination and knowledge of the issues helped develop comprehensive policies crucial to our nation. Henry stood up for those struggling with HIV/ AIDS and stood guard against efforts to threaten the rights of women, reduce regulation on environmental abuses and reduce transparency in government. “I would like to thank Henry for all he has given to the people of this nation and wish him, Janet and his family all the best moving forward.” ###
01.29.2014	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 2642, The Agricultural Act of 2014, by the U.S. House of Representatives: "Today, the House passed a farm bill that once again puts the needs of big agribusinesses ahead of the small farmer and families in need. "This bill asks our most vulnerable households to choose between heating their homes and feeding their families. While the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) was spared an outrageous $40 billion in cuts nationally, states like Connecticut would be forced to reduce benefits for the most vulnerable. Seniors, veterans, the disabled and young children would watch already scarce food assistance be further reduced by an average of $90 a month. "I would like to commend Congressman Joe Courtney for fighting for improvements to the new dairy insurance program, which is so important to the small dairy farmers in Connecticut. While the bill contained other promising reforms such as the reauthorization of the National Oilheat Research Alliance and whole-farm insurance, I could not in good conscience support this bill and a Congress that continues to subsidize big Agriculture, big Oil and Wall Street while the poorest amongst us are going hungry. That is not the America that I know.” ###
01.28.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Barack Obama’s State of the Union Address: “The strength of our nation rests on opportunity. I applaud President Obama for his call tonight: that opportunity should never be out of reach because of where you’re from or how much money you have. “The President is right to seek a higher minimum wage. From a forum in Winsted last summer to various events and meetings in the district, activists and residents alike have made it clear the current minimum wage is not adequate. I am pleased to see the President take a step in the right direction today and hope his words echo through Congress, where Members have heard the struggles of individuals and families around the country. “Empowering the middle class is crucial for our economy. I was pleased to hear the President announce a new workforce training initiative and know that in the First Congressional District, local stakeholders are working to improve vital industries and strengthen our workforce. Just this month, East Hartford's Goodwin College in partnership with the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology awarded its first credentials to students participating in a new program designed to improve our manufacturing workforce pipeline. I was proud to bring the Mayor of East Hartford Marcia Leclerc as my guest tonight. A supporter of local workforce training, Mayor Leclerc is a leader in bringing greater opportunity to the community of East Hartford. "President Obama also spoke to the importance of supporting natural gas infrastructure. I commend his work to both lower our dependency on foreign energy and efforts to bring the financial and environmental benefits of natural gas to the nation. “Tonight the President reaffirmed that together we can strengthen job creation, improve our education system, support our seniors and veterans and move our economy forward. I will be working with both sides of the aisle in the coming months on these issues and look forward to continuing my efforts for the people of Connecticut.” ###
01.21.2014	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined over 100 Members of Congress in a bipartisan letter to the American Studies Association (ASA) opposing their recent boycott of Israel. In December, the ASA voted in favor of a resolution to boycott all Israeli academic institutions and universities. “As a former educator, I am deeply troubled by the America Studies Association’s recently approved resolution to boycott Israeli institutions and scholars,” said Larson. “Freedom of thought and expression are core to our nation’s values and, historically, education has been a cradle of change across the world. Restricting educational and cultural exchanges with Israel is as damaging to our academia as it is to Israeli institutions, and quite frankly, violates academic freedom. I commend hundreds of universities and organizations who are opposing this resolution and urge ASA to overturn this boycott.” Full text of the letter below: Mr. Curtis Marez President American Studies Association 1120 19th St NW, Suite 301 Washington, DC 20036 Dear Mr. Marez: We write in strong opposition to the American Studies Association’s (ASA) recent decision to boycott Israeli universities and academic institutions. While ASA has every right to express its views on policies pursued by any nation or government, we believe that the decision to blacklist Israeli academic institutions for Israeli government policies with which ASA disagrees demonstrates a blatant disregard for academic freedom. The ASA claims that the boycott “is in solidarity with scholars and students deprived of their academic freedom and it aspires to enlarge that freedom for all, including Palestinians.” We believe that this boycott accomplishes just the opposite. The university is an institution intended to foster, encourage, and inspire constructive dialogue and original thought. However, this boycott undermines academic freedom by prohibiting educational and cultural exchanges with Israeli universities and academic institutions. Even more concerning is the singular targeting of Israel for boycott. Like all democracies, Israel is not perfect. But to single out Israel, while leaving relationships with universities in autocratic and repressive countries intact, suggests thinly-veiled bigotry and bias against the Jewish State. This morally dishonest double standard has already been rejected by well over 100 university presidents, with several member universities even withdrawing from the organization in protest. Some higher education organizations—including the American Association of University Professors, the American Council on Education, and the Association of American Universities—have denounced the boycott as unjust and harmful to the goals of academic freedom. Even Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas rejects boycotts of Israel, stating: “No, we do not support the boycott of Israel…We have relations with Israel, we have mutual recognition of Israel.” Academic cooperation can be an important tool to help foster peace between Israelis and Palestinians, but you have chosen the unproductive path of isolation. We hope that the ASA will learn to appreciate the mutually beneficial academic ties between the United States and Israel and work with us to promote peace and academic freedom. ###
01.17.2014	Bristol, CT - In light of the potential closure of the Social Security Administration part time office in Bristol at the end of January, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Bristol Mayor Ken Cockayne are announcing a new collaborative effort to continue to allow residents with general Social Security issues to have a direct link to Social Security Services. Following discussions between Mayor Cockayne, Congressman Larson, the Social Security Administration and key Social Security constituencies to increase opportunities for service, three new partnerships have been created. These partnerships include local Bristol organizations, the Social Security Administration state headquarters in Hartford and the installation of a teleconference system in the Bristol Senior Center to facilitate one on one meetings between key Social Security staff and Bristol residents. “I remain frustrated that sequestration cuts have left the Social Security Administration with no choice but to significantly reduce costs after continual reductions in funding since 2010. Drastic cuts in funding have also translated, in part, to a reduction in staff of 12,500 employees nationwide, including 144 in Connecticut. After working with Mayor Cockayne and leading local constituency groups towards a solution, we have been able to preserve crucial access to services from Social Security for Bristol residents,” said Larson. New partnerships between the Hartford Social Security Office have been established between the following organizations to provide direct avenues of communication between Bristol residents and the Social Security Administration: The Bristol Community Organization, 55 South Street, Bristol The Army Strong Support Center, 111 North Main Street, Bristol The Bristol Senior Center, 240 Stafford Avenue, Bristol “Moving forward, these partnerships will allow Bristol Seniors, Veterans and residents with general Social Security issues to have a more direct link with Social Security services,” Larson continued. “I will be closely monitoring the implementation of this change in service and will continue to fight for a permanent office in Bristol with Mayor Cockayne and Senators Blumenthal and Murphy” "These budget cuts have left seniors, veterans, and others in the area in the lurch, unsure about the future of this critical resource,” said Murphy. “But these new partnerships represent a good, workable solution that will allow direct access to Social Security services for people in the area. Congressman Larson, Senator Blumenthal and I will keep pushing for a more permanent office, but I'm pleased that the Bristol Community Organization, the Army Strong Support Center, and the Bristol Senior Center have stepped up to help fill this void." “Bristol residents deserve direct access to Social Security services,” said Cockayne. “The new partnerships announced today will provide additional ways for our community to connect with Social Security, maintaining direct communication. In the coming weeks, my staff and I will be working to inform our seniors, veterans and others on these new partnerships. I want to thank Congressman Larson and our Senators for their work on this collaborative effort and will be continuing my push for a permanent Social Security location in Bristol.” Senators Blumenthal and Murphy and Congressman Larson have sent two letters and had sit down meetings with Social Security officials to discuss their significant concern with the potential closure of the Bristol office. Recent budget cuts to the Social Security Administration have resulted in the closure of 41 field offices, 490 contract stations and a 20 percent reduction in office hours nationwide since fiscal year 2010. Since fiscal year 2011, budget cuts have reduced staffing by 12,500 employees across the country. ###
01.14.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement today on the announcement that Miles Rapoport will serve as the new president of Common Cause: “From his time in Connecticut to his work with Demos, Miles Rapoport has fought to lessen inequality and improve our electoral system. A champion of every voter’s rights, Miles exemplifies the values of Common Cause. I offer my congratulations on his new position and know his experience will serve him well moving forward.” ###
01.13.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the announced retirement of Congressman George Miller of California: “True change often begins outside of Washington. George Miller was the exception. One of the most intelligent and innovative policy strategists I have ever met in Congress, George drove the nation forward in education, labor and health issues over the last four decades. “Congressional Leadership often turned to George for his guidance and intellect during the development of legislation. From student aid, workforce development and youth employment to his work on the Affordable Care Act, George’s policy initiatives have left a lasting impact on a number of industries essential to the American people. “I wish George and Cynthia, and his family, all the best and thank him for his friendship as we reflect on his career and congratulate him for everything he has done on behalf of our nation.” ###
01.10.2014	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-01), and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) applauded the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service’s decision not to count the volunteer hours of volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel when determining an employer’s full-time employees under the Affordable Care Act. The decision confirms that the employer shared responsibility requirement does not apply to volunteer departments. “Today’s decision is welcome news for the thousands of departments and volunteers working to keep our communities safe,” said Congressman Larson. “When the volunteer first responder community, including one of our local fire chiefs, brought this issue to my attention, I knew an explanation was needed to ensure our departments have the resources they need. This decision could not have come at a better time as the demand for volunteer first responders steadily increases in Connecticut and across the nation. I applaud Commissioner Koskinen, the Department of Treasury and the IRS for their timely response and look forward to continuing my efforts for our brave volunteer first responders.” “I am pleased that the Obama Administration has responded favorably to our request to ensure that Connecticut’s volunteer fire departments are not improperly classified under the Affordable Care Act,” Congressman Courtney said. “I am proud to have collaborated with Congressman Larson to raise this issue directly with the White House over the last few weeks after many conversations with eastern Connecticut fire chiefs about their concerns. I am committed to working pragmatically to solve issues such as this one when they arise during implementation of the ACA, to ensure that the law works as intended to expand access to affordable, quality health care for Americans.” "I’m pleased that the Obama Administration listened to the concerns I heard from volunteer firefighters throughout my district," said Congresswoman Esty. "The clarifications just published by the IRS will help the Affordable Care Act work better for our fire departments and, ultimately, make sure that the departments have the capacity to recruit and retain volunteer firefighters, which is critical to keeping our communities safe." Today’s decision follows a call for guidance from various departments, concerned that the “volunteer” status of many first responders may not be applied to the ACA employer shared responsibility requirement due to certain nominal compensation or service award programs. Yesterday, January 9th, Representatives Larson and Courtney led the Connecticut Delegation in a letter to IRS Commissioner John Koskinen calling for the clarification. See attached for the full letter and today’s response from the U.S. Department of Treasury. ###
01.08.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Rep.Tom Latham (R-IA) today announced the introduction of the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act (VRIPRA) in order to reauthorize a tax break for volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel. The tax break, authorized in 2007 following its original introduction by Larson, expired in 2010. By renewing this tax exemption, VRIPRA would increase the value of benefits offered by communities that bolster recruitment and retention of volunteer first responders. “When it comes to protecting our communities, many towns in Connecticut and around the nation rely on brave individuals who donate time to helping their neighbors,” said Congressman Larson. “It is crucial that we offer these men and women our gratitude and give back what we can for their sacrifice. This act helps us show our appreciation by strengthening the value of volunteer benefits, in turn helping communities find and train needed volunteers.” “The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act is a commonsense approach to recruiting, retaining and thanking our brave volunteer firefighters and emergency responders, who are vital in keeping our families and communities safe,” Congressman Latham said. “I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to advance this measure.” “There is no greater challenge facing the volunteer emergency services today than recruitment and retention. The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Reauthorization Act will give local agencies and governments much-needed flexibility to implement incentive programs that work for their community. On behalf of the nation’s volunteer firefighters and EMS providers I’d like to thank Representatives Larson and Latham for introducing this critically important bill,” said Philip C. Stittleburg, Chairman of the National Volunteer Fire Council. “With the ranks of volunteer fire and EMS personnel declining but still critically needed, the federal government should provide a small incentive to these volunteers who risk their lives for little or no compensation. The cost of these proposed incentives to the federal government would be minimal compared to the estimated cost savings provided by volunteer emergency services,” said Larry Merrill, President of the National Association of Towns and Townships and Executive Director of the Michigan Townships Association. The work of volunteer first responders is estimated to be worth over $140 billion to communities across the country who otherwise could not afford these vital services. Despite the importance of these services, the number of volunteer firefighters nationally has dropped by nearly 44,000 in the last five years while training and certification requirements have steadily increased the time commitment for those who wish to offer their help. The Congressional Fire Services Institute, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Association of Towns and Townships and National Volunteer Fire Council have each expressed their support for the legislation, most recently in a letter to Representatives Larson and Latham, which can be viewed here. ###
01.07.2014	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate voted to advance a bill extending unemployment benefits: “Today the Senate moved Congress in the right direction by advancing a bill that would provide relief to 1.3 million Americans impacted by the recent loss of unemployment insurance. Looking ahead, House Leadership cannot hold the American people hostage as this measure advances. In the depths of this cold winter, we must vote to extend benefits that are morally right and economically sound to those who need our help. “Over a million people across the country lost their unemployment insurance after its expiration last month, including nearly 24,000 Connecticut residents. My office has been fielding calls from constituents across the First Congressional District, including Dave from West Hartford who stands to lose his unemployment benefits this week, and others who are facing the loss of this critical assistance. “I am prepared to continue working with members on both sides of the aisle to extend unemployment benefits and help those in need, like Dave and Connecticut’s own Katherine Hackett, who eloquently voiced the concerns of her fellow unemployed when she appeared at the White House this morning with President Obama.” ###
12.23.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) along with U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced a $231,465,987 contract from the Air Force to Pratt & Whitney for the maintenance and repair of F119 Engines. The contract, signed Monday, modifies an existing agreement between the Air Force and the East Hartford aerospace manufacturer and will run through 2014. The delegation members said, “This contract is tremendous news for Connecticut’s aerospace industry, our national defense, and workers up and down the supply chain who build F119 engines. Our state is a leader in producing specialized engine parts critical to the safety and success of our military aircraft and the soldiers who operate them, and today’s announcement is a testament to the highly-skilled, hardworking men and women of Pratt & Whitney. We applaud their success and will continue to fight to ensure that military contracts are awarded to the most eligible manufacturers here at home.” ###
12.13.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced a resolution this week along with Congressman Peter King (R-NY) calling for the U.S. House of Representatives to recognize the election, inspirational statements and actions of Pope Francis. Archbishop Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Argentina was elected Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church on March 13, 2013, and is the first Pope of the Americas. Over 120 Members of Congress have currently joined in the resolution, H. Res. 440. Full text of the resolution here: Congratulating Pope Francis on his election and recognizing his inspirational statements and actions. Whereas on March 13, 2013, Archbishop Jorge Mario Bergoglio of Buenos Aires, Argentina was elected Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church; Whereas his election marked the first time a Pope from the Americas has been selected; Whereas he is the first Jesuit to become Supreme Pontiff of the Catholic Church; Whereas he took the papal name of Francis, becoming the first pope to take the name of St. Francis of Assisi, who was known for his devotion to humility and the poor; Whereas he has demonstrated his humility by choosing not to live in the lavish Apostolic Palace, living instead with the clergy and lay people in the Vatican guesthouse; Whereas on March 28, 2013, he broke from tradition during the washing of feet, when he washed the feet of 12 criminals, including two women, becoming the first pope to include women in the rite; Whereas on November 6, he displayed his charity by caressing a man with severe disfigurement, drawing comparisons to the actions of his namesake, St. Francis, whose kiss of a leper forever changed his life by solidifying his commitment to the poorest among us; Whereas when asked to describe himself during an interview with a Jesuit magazine, he replied ‘‘I am a sinner’’; Whereas his emphasis on humanitarian efforts to alleviate suffering serves as an inspiration to Congress and all Americans; Whereas his humility, his commitment to economic justice and improving the lives of the poor, and his outreach to individuals from all walks of life have been universally praised and are living examples of Jesus Christ’s message; and Whereas his call to end inequality has echoed across the globe and brought millions together in solidarity: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates Pope Francis on his election and recognizes his inspirational statements and actions. ###
12.12.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted in favor of a bipartisan budget deal, H.J. Resolution 59: “The budget passed in the House tonight is a small step forward for our economy. I am pleased to see some of the harm of the sequester addressed, helping to protect jobs by relieving pressure on Connecticut’s defense industry. The lessened impact on certain domestic programs is also encouraging, along with a temporary patch to the broken SGR formula that will help us avoid large reductions for our physicians at the end of the year. “These important measures for defense and domestic programs will help thousands in Connecticut and the First District avoid the consequences of another protracted budget debate. It is astounding, however, that during this holiday season, the House will adjourn without at least considering an extension of unemployment insurance. I am extremely disappointed and frustrated that Republican Leadership has refused to help these Americans who, in our recovering economy are now facing cuts in these vital benefits. “As Members return home this holiday season, they will hear from people who through no fault of their own have found themselves without a job and have now lost their only source of income. I will press that unemployment be taken up in a retroactive manner by both sides of the aisle on our return. “While it is clear that too much has been left on the table, I hope the overall bipartisan nature of this budget agreement can continue into next year. The major issues we face as Americans are just that: not Republican, not Democratic but American. I look forward to continuing my efforts with Members regardless of party on the issues that impact Connecticut’s First and our nation.” ###
12.12.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the House Committee on Ways & Means voted in favor of a permanent solution to fix the broken Medicare physician payment system. Larson, along with the full committee, voted in favor of the “Medicare Patient Access and Quality Improvement Act of 2013”, H.R. 2810: “Today, the Ways and Means Committee took a positive step towards replacing the flawed SGR formula. By working together to pass this in committee, we are moving towards a sustainable payment structure that will benefit both our healthcare community and most importantly, patients. Not only does this bill provide a fix to the flawed payment system, it also builds on existing efforts to improve the quality and coordination of care for patients. “Shortly, the House will vote on a three month patch to ensure physicians do not see large reductions at the end of this year. It is my hope that during this time, the bipartisan and bicameral spirit can continue as we seek to once and for all address this longstanding problem.” ###
12.12.2013	Washington — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut’s Congressional Delegation released the following statement today applauding the Federal Railroad Administration’s announcement they are conducting a thorough analysis of every aspect of the Metro-North Commuter Railroad. The analysis, Operation Deep Dive, will take 60 days and is a response to a series of accidents dating back to March. “This is a badly needed and overdue first step to address the specifics of recent Metro-North accidents and how to reduce their likelihood in the future,” the delegation said. “We expect changes to be made based on the results of this analysis and will hold people’s feet to the fire to ensure that they are. The safety of travelers remains our number one priority.” ###
11.27.2013	Hartford, CT – In a letter to the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation today urged the agency to be more flexible with enrollment periods and strengthen standards for Medicare Advantage plans for UnitedHealth Group enrollees. “The ability of people to make decisions is further hampered by the providers’ ongoing appeal of their termination by UHG. We ask that you consider the uncertainties that these unresolved appeals can cause in determining how best to serve MA enrollees regarding enrollments for 2014. As we see the effects of network adjustments unfolding in Connecticut, we urge you to review and strengthen the process for determining network adequacy. Additionally, because of the novelty of UHG’s approach and the significant confusion that currently exists for MA enrollees, we ask that you consider allowing additional time to make enrollment decisions for next year by opening an additional enrollment period or extending the current one.” The full text of the letter follows: November 27, 2013 Dear Commissioner Tavenner; We are writing to urge the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to expeditiously address the concerns of Connecticut patients who have UnitedHealth Group (UHG) Medicare Advantage (MA) policies. As you know, members of the Connecticut congressional delegation and Connecticut Attorney General Jepsen have previously contacted your department regarding the disruption to UHG’s provider networks. Since our initial contact, we now know that UHG has dropped over 2,000 providers from their Connecticut network, notifying Connecticut enrollees only days before they need to decide on Medicare plan for 2014. UHG’s provider terminations have, for example, resulted in the Yale Medical Group being cut from the network, leaving thousands of patients without their regular physician, and in the city of Norwich, a community of over 40,000, there will not be a single cardiologist available to UHG MA enrollees. Adding to further confusion, the health care providers may appeal their termination and some have filed lawsuits alleging contract and federal law violations. Rather than assuaging the Medicare population in Connecticut, UHG’s handling of these terminations is intensifying patient and provider confusion. While we understand that insurance companies need the ability to adjust their network of providers in response to market realities, the significant disruptions that we are experiencing in Connecticut show an urgent need for CMS to immediately review how the network adjustment was made and address the needs of the consumers in Connecticut moving forward. Network adequacy determinations are typically made when a plan is entering a new market and MA plans are contractually required to maintain the adequacy of their networks. Because provider choice is important for consumers deciding which plan will best meet their needs, we ask that CMS take into account UHG’s dominance in the Connecticut market as a part of determining whether UHG’s approach is appropriate in this case. While CMS has not affirmatively determined that UHG has violated CMS regulations for MA plans, nor has a court determined that UHG’s termination of its CT providers breached their contracts, we believe that CMS should use the full extent of its authority over MA plans to ensure that beneficiaries do not have to make a final decision regarding their Medicare coverage for next year without the benefit of fully understanding what the network of their current UHG MA plans will look like as of February of next year. MA enrollees only have 10 days left of open enrollment, at which point they may still decide to switch back to traditional Medicare until February 14, but the ongoing uncertainty regarding these plans in Connecticut warrants further action from CMS prior to the day on which Connecticut enrollees must decide on a Medicare Advantage policy. The ability of people to make decisions is further hampered by the providers’ ongoing appeal of their termination by UHG. We ask that you consider the uncertainties that these unresolved appeals can cause in determining how best to serve MA enrollees regarding enrollments for 2014. As we see the effects of network adjustments unfolding in Connecticut, we urge you to review and strengthen the process for determining network adequacy. Additionally, because of the novelty of UHG’s approach and the significant confusion that currently exists for MA enrollees, we ask that you consider allowing additional time to make enrollment decisions for next year by opening an additional enrollment period or extending the current one. We look forward to receiving your response. While we are not necessarily opposed to these adjustments, we hope to work with you in the future to ensure that MA enrollees have the necessary information that they need to make decisions about their health coverage. Please contact Laurel Sakai (202-224-2823¬) on Senator Blumenthal’s staff with any additional questions. ###
11.22.2013	Originially published in the East Hartford Gazette on November 21, 2013 In November 1983, I submitted an op-ed to the East Hartford Gazette on President John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Thirty years have passed and I asked Bill Doak if the Gazette would be receptive to a revision. Most, myself included, would rather dwell on the President’s birth and celebrate his heroic service. Indeed May 29th should be a national day of remembrance. President Kennedy would be 96 years old if he were alive today. But it is that youthful, vigorous man that remains, seared in our memory, whose life was taken from us in the summer of his years. For my parents’ generation it was December 7, 1941, a day that would live in infamy. For my children and the current generation, it is September 11, 2001. For my generation it remains November 22, 1963, the day the nation stood still…in shock and disbelief. The shot heard round the world was not the one fired at Lexington and Concord, but in Dallas. The shot that cut down the 35th President of the United States ended dreams of Camelot and cut short the life of an American hero. Everyone can recall where he was and what he was doing when he first heard the news of the assassination of John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Fifty years after his death, the country still gropes for answers and searches to fill the void created by his departure. It was sixth period in Mr. Desmond’s French class when Mrs. Bray’s voice, noticeably shaken, announced over the loudspeaker that the President had been shot. An unsettling silence that was laden with anxiety fell over a perplexed and unbelieving class. Attempts to calm the class were fumbled by a visibly stunned teacher as he sought answers to a host of questions. Such an irrational act – it just couldn’t be. What seemed to be within minutes, Mrs. Bray’s tearful voice announced that the President had died. Hollow disillusionment and deep sadness engulfed not only the classroom but the entire nation. Despair was replaced by speculation concerning the perpetrator of such an act. Walking home from school, conjecture of this heinous crime centered on the KGB and Castro as likely culprits, but even conjuring up these villains brought no resolve. When I reached home, my mother, with Kleenex in hand, sat motionless next to the TV. She was glassy-eyed and unable to comprehend the events of the day that saw the first president born in this century struck down. The family gathered around the TV and waited for Dad to come home; surely he could explain. When my father arrived, everything from the Russians to the Texans was mulled over as my father revealed various theories discussed at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, but all with the same anguish and perplexity. Thus began a family vigil with Walter Cronkite, but even he couldn’t explain to the viewing public…that’s the way it was on Nov. 22, 1963. It was a numbing experience for our family and the rest of the country as we sat in shock, traumatized as the first real-time media account of the ‘60s unfolded in our living room. In a weekend that never seemed to end, we witnessed a nation in mourning, the apprehension, then murder of Lee Harvey Oswald and subsequent arrest of crime figure Jack Ruby; the plot only seemed to become more complicated. The complexities of American society and the very fabric of our way of life in this nation hit home like never before. What I most recall from that weekend are the vivid scenes and images of that ordeal. The distressed widow in a blood-stained pink suit, with all the dignity and strength she could muster, being met at the airport by Robert Kennedy, the long lines of people passing through the Rotunda to pay their last respects, the veiled face of Jacqueline Kennedy as she kneeled over the coffin, clutching the hand of her daughter, Caroline, the Kennedy brothers, the Kennedy family, the boots placed backwards in the stirrups of Black Jack, the horse following the caisson, the procession of world leaders enroute to Arlington, a weekend of images culminating in John-John’s final salute to his Dad. I will never forget that weekend of tragedy, wrought with emotion and dream-crushing reality. Its impact and the impact of other events in that decade perhaps won’t be fully understood until the next century. As William Manchester noted and puts in perspective, “In November of 1963, among the living were Robert Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr. and 58,209 young men who would die in Vietnam over the next nine years.” Questions went unanswered. The Warren Report was unconvincing. Camelot lay in ruin and the American Dream was severely shaken. David Brinkley was to conclude that the assassination was beyond understanding, “The events of those days don’t fit, you can’t place them anywhere, they don’t go in the intellectual luggage of the time. It was too big, too sudden, too overwhelming, and it meant too much. It has to be separate and apart.” Jacqueline Kennedy, writes Ralph G. Martin, in her memorial to her husband, someone who had loved President Kennedy, but never had known him, wrote to me this winter: “The hero comes when he is needed. When our belief gets pale and weak there comes a man out of that need who is shining – and everyone living reflects a little of that light – and stores up some against the time when he is gone…” “So now he is a legend,” Mrs. Kennedy said, “When he would have preferred to be a man.” And so it has been – Steinbeck said of Kennedy, “This man who was the best of his people and who by his life and death, gave back the best of them for their own.” Arthur O’Shaughnessey stated, “For each age there is a dream that is dying and one that is coming to birth.” John Fitzgerald Kennedy embodied dreams that were coming to birth and through his Presidency ushered in the future dreams for this century and the next. Heroes are those people who we admire for their achievements, their character, and their ability to inspire. They are often an extension of what we would like to be. If John Kennedy had never been president of the United States, he would still have been a bona fide hero. His war record alone was heroic, his Pulitzer Prize admirable- combined with his personality, wit, and intelligence and you have a man to emulate and respect. It is as President, that we remember John Kennedy and in that capacity, his greatness came from being the cog, the catalyst, the spark that ignited the tremendous latent strength of his nation. Summoning the nation like no other president, Kennedy established goals for excellence, raised the consciousness of the American people to a level of dignity befitting a nation embarking on building a positive future for mankind. Some would say John Kennedy was a tragic hero, much like the tragic heroes of Greek literature and Shakespearean plays. Kennedy was neither Achilles nor Hamlet. He was a man who through sheer force of personality and conviction motivated and excited people. He moved a nation. What he shares with ancient heroes was the great promise of youth, cut short by death before that promise could be fulfilled. James Reston wrote, “The tragedy of John Fitzgerald Kennedy was greater than the accomplishment, but in the end the tragedy enhances the accomplishment and revives hope.” What died in Dallas was promise, the hallmark of both the Kennedy Administration and the man. “It’s sad to see what happened in this country,” Ted Sorenson has commented. “It’s as if people don’t want to believe in anything today. Sometimes they even turn against John Kennedy because he was the last man they believed in.” Sorenson’s remarks are well taken. I share his sadness and tire of cynics who seek only to tear down, discredit, destroy and in general, believe in nothing. I do not share an untainted or distorted view of John Kennedy, for whatever his human foibles and shortcomings may have been, his rhetoric of purpose, his goals for the nation are still worth believing in and aspiring towards. Others will say that Kennedy had a superficial charisma, hyped by his ability to manipulate the media. Ralph G. Martin, a biographer of Kennedy’s notes, “John Kennedy had more than charisma, sports figures have charisma. He had more than the magnetic attraction of a movie star. What Kennedy had was real…Magic…” John Kennedy’s appeal was not limited to this country, it was worldwide. Throngs gathered throughout the world, not to chant anti-American slogans, or to protest, they came to touch, to hear, to see the man who represented the hope of the free world. One has only to recall the vivid scenes in Berlin to realize there was a special magic about John Kennedy; the excitement was real. John Kennedy struck a chord in all of us. “Why are you crying?” Senator Hugh Scott’s wife asked, “You didn’t have that much admiration for him.” He was to have said, “I’m not crying for him, I’m crying for the American people.” What John Fitzgerald Kennedy meant to America was lodged in their hearts and minds. He opened the door through his challenge and beckoned the people to a greater future, a ‘New Frontier.’ He was our voice. History will probably bear out that a thousand days was too short a time to judge the greatness of Kennedy as president, but it will also bear out what Robert Kennedy said of his brother’s legacy, “The essence of the Kennedy legacy, is a willingness to try and to dare and to change, to hope for the uncertain and risk the unknown.” It is in that context that the Civil rights movement, the Bay of Pigs, the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the Cuban Missile Crisis, the Space Race and other actions of his administration will be judged, with the constant footnote to that ancient thief…time. “It was all too brief,” Ted Kennedy said of his brother’s era. “Those thousand days are like an evening gone. But they are not forgotten. You can recall those years of grace, that time of hope. The spark still glows. The journey never ends. This dream shall never die.” It is the end of the story of Camelot that takes on significance, for it is that point in the tale when King Arthur tells of his legends to the young boy, so they would still remember even if he were killed in battle. Fifty years have passed and the life and death of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, it is the topic of every magazine, newspaper and TV series across the nation seeking separate the myth from the man. Who was John Kennedy? Certainly not a myth, he was a real man with hopes, fears, doubts and the same human frailties and desires we all possess. Was he a great President? His time in office was too short to objectively evaluate his long-term objectives and goals. But we can never forget him or let him go – Chris Matthews recalls Daniel Patrick Moynihan once saying to him, “’We’ve never gotten over it.’ Then, looking at me with generous appreciation, he added, ‘You’ve never gotten over it.’ I saw it as a kind of benediction, an acceptance into something warm and Irish and splendid, a knighthood of the soulful.” John Kennedy is a hero because of the message he brought, the hope and dreams he inspired. He set a standard by which all successive presidents are measured. He united the country on the great issues of the day, guided the nation through crisis by calling on the American people to uplift their expectations, their goals, and their fellow man. It wasn’t hollow rhetoric or dazzling showmanship; it was sincere and compelling belief in the purpose of this country and its people. John Fitzgerald Kennedy is a hero for all time and for those who believe in the promise of America because he elevated what it means to serve in government on behalf of the people. He made elective office, the Peace Corps and public service noble and honorable pursuits. He made poetry, literature, and the arts in general, a part of the fabric of everyday life and did it all with the ease, grace, wit, humor, and understated elegance that exuded the confidence of his nation and his countrymen. For those who listen, he speaks to us still.
11.21.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced a resolution calling for a National Day of Remembrance in Honor of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Congressman Joe Courtney, Congressman Jim Himes and Congresswoman Elizabeth Esty along with the entire New England Delegation also joined in the resolution designating May 29th, President Kennedy’s birthday, as a National Day of Remembrance. Full text of the resolution here: Expressing support for designation of May 29, 2014, as a national day of remembrance honoring the late President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, the 35th President of the United States. Whereas President Kennedy was born on May 29th, 1917 in Brookline, Massachusetts; Whereas he served his country honorably in World War II, in the Navy; narrowly escaping death in 1943 when his PT boat was sunk by a destroyer; Whereas he bravely led survivors to safety, despite his own grave injuries and was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, as well as a Purple Heart, for his leadership and courage; Whereas he heeded the call to public service and was elected to serve Massachusetts’ 11th Congressional District in 1946, and served three terms in the U.S. House of Representatives; Whereas then-Congressman Kennedy would promote the interests of his working class district by serving on the distinguished Committees on Education, the District of Columbia, and the Joint Committee on Labor-Management Relations. As a House Member, introducing legislation to support primary and secondary education, strengthening employment protections, and protecting housing rights for returning veterans; Whereas he was then elected to serve in the U.S. Senate in 1952 and served two terms, representing the great Commonwealth of Massachusetts; Whereas then-Senator Kennedy served on the Committees for Labor and Public Welfare, Government Operations, Foreign Relations, and the Joint Economic Committee; Whereas he authored Profiles in Courage to tell the stories of political leaders who defied public opinion in order to vote their conscience and was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for biography in 1957; Whereas he was then elected President of the United States in 1960, being the youngest person elected to our nation’s highest office; Whereas he led the way for Catholic-Americans to achieve the highest office in the land as the first Catholic President of the United States; Whereas in his inaugural address, he challenged the nation and its citizens to, ‘‘Ask not what your country can do for you – ask what you can do for your country,’’ and asked the nations of the world to come together to fight the ‘‘common enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself’’; Whereas the President understood the importance of service to others, and that the strength of the United States rests not in its military prowess, but in its generosity to our neighbors across the globe, he sent young Americans out to serve the world in the first generation of Peace Corps volunteers; Whereas the President sought to make good on the 100 year old promise of the Civil War by finally bringing true equality to all Americans’ through a Civil Rights Act; Whereas the President strove to make the United States of America the most technologically advanced country on Earth, and in doing so inspired an entire generation of young people to reach for the stars, by putting us on the path to sending a man to the moon; Whereas we also honor the Kennedy family for their commitment to the nation and the generations they inspired to also enter into public service; and Whereas May 29, 2014, would be an appropriate date for a national day of remembrance in honor of John Fitzgerald Kennedy: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives supports the designation of a national day of remembrance in honor of John Fitzgerald Kennedy. ###
11.15.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the most recent attempt by House Republicans to eliminate or hinder the Affordable Care Act. In a conference meeting this week, Speaker John Boehner reiterated his “strategy for stopping Obamacare”, stating, “That plan is being executed as we speak.” "The goal of Republicans hasn't changed: they shut down the government over the Affordable Care Act; they threatened to take the nation to the brink of default over the Affordable Care Act, and once again they have offered a Trojan Horse amendment to raise insurance premiums on the masses and block the president's and Democrats' efforts to implement the Affordable Care Act. Their goal, as outlined by Speaker Boehner again this week, is to scrap the Affordable Care Act. "Building on the president's announcement, Democrats have put forward a plan designed to help consumers during this transition. I will continue to work on behalf of these impacted consumers during this rollout and am encouraged by Governor Malloy, Lt. Governor Wyman and Kevin Counihan, as well as local insurance companies addressing this issue constructively, for their efforts.” ###
11.12.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on comments from President Barack Obama and former President Bill Clinton that Americans whose individual market insurance plans have been discontinued deserve a solution: “The Affordable Care Act has provided vital benefits to our youth, women, those with preexisting conditions and more in a crucial step towards fixing our health care system. Now, as with any act, we must continue our efforts to ensure an effective and positive roll-out. “I agree with President Obama and former President Clinton for stating that we must develop a solution for those Americans recently finding their health plans discontinued. In the last week, my office has fielded calls and received letters from constituents who are worried about their own health plans, including Stephen Pelton who I met with in Hartford. With no political axes to grind, these individuals are simply looking out for the health and well-being of their families and are asking for relief from their government. "Moving forward, I will be working with both sides of the aisle to help people like the Peltons as we continue efforts to strengthen our nation's healthcare." ###
11.08.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined several Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Barack Obama regarding the reauthorization of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA). In their letter, the Members state: “Any new proposed Trade Promotion Authority must reflect the changing nature of international trade and ensure that Congress plays a more meaningful role in the negotiating process than in the 2002 TPA.“Any proposed negotiating authority should help our country and its workers better compete in the modern global economy. A new TPA should include incentives to help keep well-paying jobs at home, and to help spur new American innovation and job creation across all sectors of our economy.“A new TPA should also include a reauthorization of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs to help retrain workers impacted by changing global trade and by the implementation of trade agreements. Finally, any new TPA should strengthen our trade laws and adequately fund our trade enforcement agencies so that we can hold other countries accountable and ensure they adhere to their commitments and provide fair market access.” Since the 1930's, Congress has delegated authority to the President to enter into trade agreements with foreign nations, with this authority being modified by Congress over the years to keep up with the changing nature of international trade. The most recent TPA expired in 2007. President Obama requested renewed TPA on July 30, 2013. ###
11.06.2013	New Haven, CT — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut’s delegation to the U.S. House of Representatives today advocated for Sikorsky’s world-class helicopters in a letter to the Norwegian Ambassador. Sikorsky was recently removed from the competitive bidding process on a contract by the Norwegian government, but Norway has had a change in government since that initial decision was made. “We find the decision difficult to understand as Sikorsky offered an S-92 helicopter configured specifically for Search and Rescue (SAR) that is very similar to the aircraft Ireland and the United Kingdom chose to perform their national SAR missions,” Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Joe Courtney, Jim Himes and Elizabeth Esty wrote. “Moreover, Norway is very familiar with the S-92’s superb capabilities given the aircraft’s strong presence and performance in Norway’s offshore oil sector.” The full letter is as follows: November 6, 2013 The Honorable Kåre R. Aas Ambassador Royal Norwegian Embassy 2720 34th Street NW Washington, DC 20008 Dear Ambassador Aas, We wish to congratulate you on your recent appointment as ambassador and welcome you to Washington. As elected representatives, we take an active interest in U.S. foreign policy, including issues arising in our relations with transatlantic allies such as Norway. We also closely monitor developments and opportunities overseas involving companies with a significant presence in the state of Connecticut. Accordingly, we have watched with considerable interest as Norway moves to replace its All Weather Search and Rescue Helicopters, your country’s so-called NAWSARH program. Sikorsky Aircraft, which is headquartered in Connecticut, is competing for this opportunity. As you may know, the company is widely regarded for its technological leadership and top performing military and commercial helicopters found in fleets throughout the world, including in Europe. We were therefore disappointed to recently learn that Sikorsky was not selected to engage in final negotiations on the NAWSARH contract. We find the decision difficult to understand as Sikorsky offered an S-92 helicopter configured specifically for Search and Rescue (SAR) that is very similar to the aircraft Ireland and the United Kingdom chose to perform their national SAR missions. Moreover, Norway is very familiar with the S-92’s superb capabilities given the aircraft’s strong presence and performance in Norway’s offshore oil sector. Indeed, of the more than 600,000 flight hours logged on the S-92 so far, 36 percent of them have been flown by the 32 S-92’s operating on the Norwegian shelf. In light of the S-92’s outstanding track record, we respectfully urge the Norwegian government to reconsider the decision to de-select Sikorsky. We know Sikorsky stands ready to negotiate a contract that provides a robust and reliable SAR solution on schedule at reduced risk and cost to Norway. We are grateful for your consideration of our views on this matter and hope that like us you make this issue a top priority. Thank you for your consideration and we look forward to hearing from you on this matter soon. Sincerely, ROSA L. DeLAURO JOHN B. LARSON JOE COURTNEY JAMES A. HIMES ELIZABETH H. ESTY ###
11.06.2013	Bristol, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT01) joined Mayor Art Ward in presenting Bristol resident and Korean War veteran Omer Deabay with the medals he earned during his service in the United States Army. After entering the military in 1951, Mr. Deabay served as a Sergeant in the 27th Infantry Regiment, 25th Division. Mr. Deabay continues to support veterans in his community, participating in a Korean War Veterans group that has raised money for Korean War monuments in Bristol and Forestville. “Mr. Deabay bravely served our nation during the Korean war, sacrificing his safety for our freedom,” said Larson. “I am honored to join Mayor Ward today in presenting him with these well-deserved medals for his service. I thank him for his bravery during the Korean War and for his continued efforts to support the veteran community in Bristol and across Connecticut.” “Mr. Deabay served his country with honor and distinction and has earned our utmost respect and extreme gratitude,” said Mayor Ward. Mr. Deabay was presented with the following medals: The Purple Heart National Defense Service Medal Korean Service Medal with 2 Bronze Service Stars Combat Infantry Badge 1st Award United Nations Service Medal ###
11.01.2013	Hartford – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Treasury announced a modification to the “Use-or-Lose” rule for health flexible spending arrangements (FSA). An estimated 14 million families utilize health FSAs to save tax-free money for medical expenses. Currently, participants in health FSAs are forced to forgo all unused amounts within their FSA at the end of each year. Following the change, up to $500 of unused amounts can now be carried over to the next year. “Medical expenses are some of the costliest and most difficult to predict for millions of Americans,” said Larson. “For years the use or lose rule has unfairly prevented families from utilizing money they have saved for these costs. I applaud the Treasury for this modification that will help families in Connecticut and across the nation pay for the services and care they need.” Larson has for years advocated for a change to the “Use-or-Lose” rule, previously introducing legislation to provide a similar carry over of unused benefits in health flexible spending arrangements or a cash-out of funds. Click here for additional information on the modification from the U.S. Department of Treasury. ###
10.29.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the Center for Medicare Services announced that seniors will see zero growth in Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles for 2014 and that Medicare beneficiaries continue to save money on their prescription drugs due to the Affordable Care Act: "This is great news for seniors as we continue to honor our promise to provide them with the insurance they have paid for at a low cost. I am also pleased by the announcement that Medicare beneficiaries in Connecticut and across the country continue to save money on their prescription drugs because of the improvements made to Medicare Part D as a part of the Affordable Care Act. With so many Medicare beneficiaries living on fixed incomes and dealing with the ever increasing costs of housing, food and heat, this announcement should only further inspire our efforts to provide every American, including our seniors greater access to healthcare at a price they can afford." In 2014, Medicare Part B monthly premiums will remain at $104.90 while Part B deductibles will continue to be $147. In their announcement, CMS also cites that seniors nationwide have saved over $8.3 billion since the 'donut hole' was closed for prescription drug coverage by the Affordable Care Act. Across Connecticut, total savings have exceeded $114 million, with an average discount of $898 per beneficiary. ###
10.24.2013	Hartford, CT – In a letter to United Healthcare Group (UHG) CEO Jack Larsen, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation pressed the company on its decision to terminate thousands of providers from its Medicare Advantage Plan. Approximately 32,000 Medicare enrollees in Connecticut may be impacted by this decision, which came just days before the Medicare open enrollment period began. The Connecticut Congressional Delegation’s letter and questions to UHG are attached and below: The full text of the letter follows: October 23, 2013 Mr. Jack Larsen Chief Executive Officer United Healthcare Group 9700 Healthcare Lane Minnetonka, MN 55343 Dear Mr. Larsen, We are writing to express our concern regarding the recently announced changes to the United Healthcare Group (UHG) Medicare Advantage (MA) plan offered in Connecticut. UHG has long been an important part of Connecticut’s health insurance market, and we value your dedication to providing health insurance to the people of Connecticut and across the country. However, we have heard from our constituents who are very concerned about the effects that terminating so many physicians from the UHG MA plan could have for Medicare beneficiaries in the state. While we appreciate UHG’s willingness to discuss this issue with members of our staff, we have some outstanding questions regarding the decisions that UHG made about provider participation in the UHG MA network. We would like to better understand the process of notification by UHG that was made to your Connecticut participants and physicians in compliance with CMS requirements for notice. We also need a better understanding of how network adequacy requirements will be met despite the sudden drop of what appears to be nearly one quarter of UHG’s MA provider network. This significant reduction in physicians raises many concerns about whether people who have chosen to participate in the UHG program will have adequate time to make informed decisions about their Medicare coverage before the open Medicare enrollment period closes on December 7. We understand that UHG has similarly streamlined provider networks in other states, including a reduction of approximately 1,000 providers in the network in New York. Because the UHG MA plans in Connecticut currently serve around 32,000 members who may potentially be affected by this decision, we appreciate your efforts to ensure that these beneficiaries will continue to have options for using their chosen providers within the MA plans or have appropriate notice to switch back to traditional Medicare before the end of the enrollment period. As you are well-aware, the open enrollment period for MA plans began on October 15, 2013, and will end on December 7, 2013, so we request a response to the attached questions as soon as possible, but not later than October 31, 2013, so that we can serve our constituents and address any outstanding concerns that are brought to our attention in a reasonable amount of time. Thank you in advance for your consideration of our request. If you have further questions about our request please contact Laurel Sakai in Senator Blumenthal’s office at 202-224-2823. Sincerely, RICHARD BLUMENTHAL United States Senate CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHY United States Senate ROSA L. DELAURO Member of Congress JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress JOE COURTNEY Member of Congress JIM HIMES Member of Congress ELIZABETH H. ESTY Member of Congress Questions In order to help us better understand the changes made to the UHG MA network in Connecticut, we request timely responses to the following questions 1. How many providers will be dropped from the UHG MA plan networks in Connecticut between October 1, 2013, and February 2, 2014, and what are the effective dates of such terminations of their agreements with UHG? a. Please provide a breakdown of the number of providers whose MA agreements were terminated, including where in Connecticut their practices were located, by county and town. Also please include the specialty of the practitioners by their location. 2. Please provide us with a detailed summary of the number of providers you expect to be in your MA network as of February 1, 2014, sorted by county, town, and specialty. 3. Please provide the number of days of notice that beneficiaries will have of these changes to the provider network prior to end of open Medicare enrollment period. 4. Please describe the quality factors that were considered when deciding which doctors would no longer be a part of the network. While we understand that there is some proprietary information potentially involved in some of these decisions, we hope that you will see how this information is incredibly important for understanding how the people of Connecticut will be affected. We are willing to work with you to provide this information in a manner that is consistent with your confidentiality and proprietary concerns. a. If determinations were made based on quantitative information from the Medicare Star quality program, please describe how such information was used. b. If determinations were made based on use of specific codes or procedures, please describe which code or procedure usage was used and how. 5. We understand that certain exemptions will be made for beneficiaries, in terms of their care still being considered “in-network.” One example given was those currently undergoing cancer treatments with providers who are slated to be dropped from the UHG MA plan network. Please list the exemptions and when those providers would officially be considered out-of-network for those beneficiaries. ###
10.24.2013	Washington, DC — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut's delegation to the House of Representatives today urged Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki to allow 23 Connecticut veterans at risk of losing their places in three retirement homes to stay in those homes, with coverage from the VA if they so choose. Veterans at the Seacrest Retirement Home in West Haven, Highview Manor in Hamden, and Mattatuck Health Care in Waterbury were recently notified by the VA Connecticut Healthcare System that, due to a VA error, care in these homes has erroneously been covered and will subsequently be ending at the end of the year. "None of these veterans receiving VA benefits should face financial hardship through the removal of these benefits due to a VA failure," the representatives wrote. "While some of the veterans involved may choose to move into other facilities, others may not want to move out of the facilities that they have called home for several years. Moreover, in some cases, doing so may not be in the best interest of their mental or physical well-being. Accordingly, we strongly urge you to use your authority under 38 U.S.C. 503 to extend coverage indefinitely for those veterans that wish to stay in their homes beyond December 31, 2013, relief which we firmly believe would be 'equitable.'" The full letter is as follows: October 24, 2013 The Honorable Eric K. Shinseki Secretary U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington DC 20420 Dear Secretary Shinseki: We write to express our strong objections to the treatment of 23 Connecticut veterans that have long received coverage from the Department of Veterans (VA) for care in their rest homes, but were recently informed by the VA that care will no longer be covered. It is imperative that this coverage continue indefinitely beyond the end of the year for any of these veterans that choose to continue to live in their homes. As you know, the VA Connecticut Healthcare System (VACHS) recently discovered that since 2001 it has been making unauthorized payments for 23 veterans residing in Seacrest Retirement Home in West Haven, Mattatuck Health Care in Waterbury, and Highvue Manor in Hamden. The error is the sole responsibility of the VA, which inadvertently combined the contracts associated with placement in these homes with contracted community nursing homes. The error was not just a one-time occurrence, but one that perpetuated itself with the VA continuing to offer contracts to the homes up until last year. Moreover, the manner in which these 23 veterans were notified of the error, through a letter that said payments for them to stay in their home will cease on December 31, 2013 and giving them three options to make living arrangements is deeply troubling. These are elderly veterans, many with mental and physical disabilities, which have lived in these rest homes for years, in some cases over a decade. An abrupt change to their way of life through an error that was no fault of their own is not an acceptable outcome. At this time, the VA is presenting these veterans with three options. Those that are medically eligible can be moved without personal expense to a VA contracted community nursing home. Those that choose to can stay in their current rest home at their own private expense. The VA can help facilitate a move for those that want to move to another facility, but not one contracted with the VA, though that may be at the veterans expense. It is our understanding that you determined that VACHS shall not attempt to recover any payments from the rest homes or the impacted veterans under the authority provided to you under 38 U.S.C. 503, which allows the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in cases in which a veteran "suffered loss as a consequence of reliance upon a determination by the Department of eligibility or entitlement to benefits" to provide "such relief on account of such error as the Secretary determines is equitable." It is our further understanding that you are continuing to use this authority to cover these 23 veterans' expenses in these rest homes through December 31, 2013. None of these veterans receiving VA benefits should face financial hardship through the removal of these benefits due to a VA failure. While some of the veterans involved may choose to move into other facilities, others may not want to move out of the facilities that they have called home for several years. Moreover, in some cases, doing so may not be in the best interest of their mental or physical well-being. Accordingly, we strongly urge you to use your authority under 38 U.S.C. 503 to extend coverage indefinitely for those veterans that wish to stay in their homes beyond December 31, 2013, relief which we firmly believe would be "equitable." Given this situation is a result of a VA error it is incumbent on the VA to resolve this matter in a way that meets the wishes of all 23 of these veterans. We thank you for your prompt attention to this issue, and look forward to discussing it with you in the near future. Sincerely, Rosa DeLauro John Larson Joe Courtney Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty ###
10.24.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-CT), and Rep.Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) issued statements regarding the award to Pratt & Whitney of a $508 million contract for the production of 38 F-135 engines to power the F-35 strike fighters, supporting thousands of jobs in Connecticut. The $508 million contract, signed Wednesday, modifies an existing agreement with Pratt & Whitney, bringing the total contract value for engine production up to $1.1 billion. In addition to the production of 38 engines, the contract covers program management, engineering support, and spare parts, among other work. The contract represents a decrease in cost of 2.5 percent for 32 of the takeoff and landing engines, and a 9.6 percent decrease in cost for the remaining six short takeoff and vertical landing engines. "The F135 engines built here in Connecticut continue to be a driving force behind our manufacturing base, in addition to playing an integral role in our nation's long term military future," Larson said. "Today's announcement reaffirms the importance of this program and demonstrates the successful cost reduction efforts of the hard working men and women at Pratt & Whitney. I fought to end the alternate engine for exactly this reason: Pratt & Whitney and Connecticut's manufacturing base are the best in the world at producing high quality, reliable engines for our military while keeping the need to reduce costs in mind. I am pleased to see their vision continue to strengthen the Joint Strike Fighter program that will help our nation remain the preeminent military power across the globe." "This latest contract award represents the unparalleled quality and ingenuity of Connecticut-made technology. Connecticut continues to have the best, most highly-trained and highly-skilled workforce in the world, providing second-to-none engines, aircraft and specialized parts for all sectors of our military," Blumenthal said. "I will continue to fight on behalf of Connecticut workers and our service men and women – particularly in these latest budget negotiations – to ensure that defense jobs and the life-saving products made here are protected." "The hardworking men and women who make Pratt & Whitney great form a critical pillar of our state's economy," Murphy said. "The best engines in the world come from Connecticut and our armed forces deserve nothing less. I'm proud to stand with our state's congressional delegation in support of this funding and will continue to push to ensure that our state remains at the forefront of America's defense industry into the future." "This contract is great news for Connecticut's economy and is a credit to the hardworking men and women at Pratt & Whitney," DeLauro said. "I am proud of Connecticut's central role in providing our troops with the necessary equipment to keep America safe. Connecticut has always been a state that does not just buy things, we build them, and we are stronger for it." ###
10.18.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy in a letter to Commissioner Carolyn Colvin of the Social Security Administration in opposition to the closing of the Bristol Social Security Office. The Members released the following in a joint statement: "The closure of the Bristol Social Security Office would have a significant impact on our communities and our seniors. While the current sequester has forced every agency to look for ways to cut down on costs, we must continue to provide our residents with the services and assistance offered by our local Social Security offices. We stand united with Mayor Ward and the greater Bristol community in our opposition to this decision and will be working with the Social Security Administration to explore all possible options to avoid closing this crucial office." In their letter, the Members request a meeting with Commissioner Colvin to discuss the rationale for the proposed closure and options of ensuring continued opportunities for in person contact between Bristol residents and Social Security Administration personnel. ###
10.16.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement tonight after the U.S. House of Representatives voted in favor of reopening the government and raising the debt ceiling. Under the deal, the government would be funded through January 15th while the debt ceiling would be raised through February 7th: "Tonight, Congress finally came to grips with what the American people have demanded and did its job. The government is funded and our debts are paid...for the time being. Let us hope that hostage politics are over and rational minds prevail. "I applaud the President for his patience and persistence in paying the bills and not being held ransom by an ideological agenda of the few. "It's long overdue for us to focus on job creation, economic recovery and help for a beleaguered middle class still struggling with access to quality education and affordable healthcare. There is a path forward. Job creation and the dignity of work are neither Democrat nor Republican ideas. They are American. It is time to stand up for America and the people we are sworn to serve." ###
10.12.2013	Washington - Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined colleagues in signing a petition to bring legislation to the floor that would reopen the federal government. The shutdown began on October 1st after attempts to vote on a bill to fund the government were blocked by House Republican leadership in a failed effort to defund the Affordable Care Act. "Today, Republican leadership refused to let us do our job and reopen the federal government. Their actions have now allowed the shutdown to continue despite the impact it is having on our veterans, students, youth and thousands of federal employees and their families," said Larson. "That's why I signed today's discharge petition to open the government now. In Connecticut people are sick and tired of Members' inability to sit down and work together. At a forum in Wethersfield last weekend, residents wanted a path forward for our nation, not politics. House Republican Leadership must stop the economic uncertainty they have caused by ending this shutdown and passing a clean debt ceiling increase." A successful discharge petition would bring a clean continuing resolution to fund the federal government through November 15 to the House floor for an up or down vote. This discharge petition only needs a majority of House members to sign on and does not require any action by the Republican leadership. Discharge petitions have been proven successful in the past in bringing up legislation for consideration. According to a Congressional Research Service study, seven discharge petitions have received 218 signatures over the last 30 years. And in all seven cases, the majority party agreed to bring the measure to the House floor. 12 measures were allowed to be brought to the House floor even before the discharge petition reached the full 218 signatures. A full list of Members who have signed the petition can be viewed at http://clerk.house.gov/113/lrc/pd/petitions/DisPet0005.xml. ###
10.11.2013	Originially published in the Huffington Post on October 11, 2013 Right now the U.S. House of Representatives is embroiled in a debate on whether or not to fully fund the federal government and end the current shutdown. For nearly two weeks, Americans have watched as House Republican Leadership continues to block attempts to vote on a bill that opens the government back up without strings attached. Make no mistake, this shutdown is having real consequences for people in Connecticut and across the country. Head Start programs are cutting enrollment, agencies such as the Social Security Administration and the Center for Medicare Services are furloughing employees, and our airlines are functioning without much-needed staff. Further, economic uncertainty hinders the financial marketplace, impacting pension funds and 401ks for many Americans. What's perhaps most shameful about this political standoff are the cuts to programs and services for our veterans. While payments to the families of deceased service members will be reinstated, veterans are continuing to deal with the suspension of tens of thousands of disability claims, increasing the strain on what is already a tremendous backlog, the potential for delayed disability payments, education benefits and more. In addition, furloughed VA employees make it near impossible to submit a new claim for our veterans coming home. This is unacceptable. We must honor the sacrifices of those who have served our country, along with the families of these brave men and women. That's why House Democrats are calling on Congress to work together on a plan that fully funds agencies like the Veterans Administration. Despite our efforts, House Republican Leadership has taken a fruitless approach, voting again and again on 'piece-meal' resolutions that both the Senate and the Administration have condemned. It's not just Congress and our president who are against these small resolutions. In a letter to Congressional Leadership, the National Executive Directors of AMVETS, DAV, PVA and VFW point to the impact of the current shutdown on our nation's veterans and the need to fully fund the Veterans Administration. In the letter, the directors clearly state that funding operations of the VA through short-term resolutions is not an acceptable solution. Unfortunately, House Republicans have spent more time voting on the very 'piece-meal' bills that our veterans organizations are speaking out against rather than working to end this shutdown. Furthermore, the directors of these top veterans organizations also recognize the value of passing permanent budget solutions rather than 'stop-gap measures' that are currently being discussed in Washington. This is something myself along with many House Democrats have been demanding for years as the nation continues to teeter on the edge of fiscal uncertainty. As a path forward is developed in the coming days, weeks and months, I will be working with members on a permanent solution to end our current trend of short term solutions. Until then, my efforts will stay with honoring our veterans by doing all I can to fully fund the federal government and the VA at the level it needs to provide critical benefits and services. Our veterans fought to make this nation the greatest democracy in the world, and it is wrong to use them in a political game where no one comes out a winner. It's time House Republican leadership do what is right for our veterans and fully fund the federal government so our veterans agencies can continue to provide these men and women with the services they have earned.
10.09.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, continued calls to the Supreme Court to uphold portions of the "McCain-Feingold" Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 that restrict the total dollar amount of aggregate contributions a donor may make. This week, McCutcheon v. FEC began oral arguments before the Supreme Court, challenging the constitutionality of the current aggregate contribution limits. "Our electoral system has been weakened by recent Supreme Court decisions that removed restrictions on independent expenditures and flooded our elections with unregulated money." said Larson. "With oral arguments in McCutcheon v. FEC taking place this week, the Supreme Court will now have to decide to either continue or end the current trend of increasingly lenient regulations on special interests in the electoral process. I continue to call on the Supreme Court to sustain aggregate contribution limits and will be watching this case closely in the coming months." In July, Larson joined Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (PA-01) of the Committee on House Administration and Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (MI-13) of the House Judiciary Committee in an Amicus brief urging the Supreme Court to uphold restrictions on the total dollar amount of aggregate contributions a donor may make to candidate committees and other non-candidate political entities, including political parties and PACs. ###
10.07.2013	Hartford, CT – On Saturday, October 5th, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Governor Dannel P. Malloy and the Connecticut Air National Guard to mark the new mission for the Flying Yankees, the 103rd Airlift Wing now charged with operating C-130H aircraft. With eight C-130H cargo airplanes permanently assigned to the base at Bradley, Saturday's ceremony highlighted the importance of the Connecticut Flying Yankees to the Air National Guard. "The Connecticut Air National Guard and the Flying Yankees have for years played an integral role in achieving our military goals," said Larson. "In the face of a government shutdown, this new mission represents a lasting investment in our Flying Yankees. I am honored to have aided efforts to expand their operations and applaud the work of Major General Thaddeus Martin, Congressman Joe Courtney and the Connecticut Delegation to help the Flying Yankees continue their brave work for our nation." Congressman Larson has worked with Congressman Joe Courtney and the Connecticut Delegation since 2007 to strengthen the viability of the Flying Yankees' mission. In 2008, Larson hosted former Congressman John Murtha in Connecticut for a briefing on the importance of the Flying Yankee's mission with Major General Thaddeus Martin. Later, Larson joined the delegation in securing over $7 million in federal funding for the expansion of the base at Bradley International Airport, putting Connecticut in position to expand its flying mission to the C-130H aircraft. This year, Larson joined Courtney in announcing $12 million in federal funding to improve the Air National Guard hanger in preparation for the C-130H mission. ###
10.01.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the official opening of the State of Connecticut health insurance exchange marketplace, Access Health CT. The state-based exchange was created in order to provide greater access to healthcare coverage as part of the Affordable Care Act. "Today marks another milestone in our nation's work to bring health coverage to those who otherwise could not access it. With the opening of Access Health CT, residents of Connecticut's First who have been unable to get the care they need can begin the enrollment process towards affordable coverage. "In Connecticut, we're already seeing the benefits of the ACA for seniors, women, youth and others. Whether it's the reassurance that comes from being able to stay on your parents' insurance until age 26, prescription drug savings for our seniors, new safeguards in place for those with preexisting conditions or improved access to preventative services, the ACA is helping Americans and their families each day. "As we continue our efforts to provide greater access while lowering the overall costs of healthcare, I encourage anyone who is uninsured or underinsured to take advantage of the resources made available through Access Health CT and the ACA." For more information on Access Health CT, visit their website at www.accesshealthct.com. Users can use the site to determine eligibility for coverage under in the new insurance marketplace, calculate the costs of care and compare various rates and coverage options for individuals and families. ###
09.30.2013	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after House Republicans voted to send a Continuing Resolution that threatens healthcare for millions of Americans to the U.S. Senate with less than four hours left to avoid a federal government shutdown: "I am disappointed tonight that House Republican leadership continues to play hostage politics with our economy and move towards a government shutdown. It is truly a shame that our economic certainty has taken a back seat to ideology tonight in Congress. "House Democrats' attempt tonight for a clean vote to fund the government was blocked. The Republican-controlled House has now tried 44 times to defund, postpone or stop the Affordable Care Act, and has demonstrated a cavalier willingness to shut down the government for pure political posturing. "I continue to call on every Member to work together to avoid this shutdown and do what is in the best interests of the American people." ###
09.26.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $626,781 in federal funding for the Connecticut Fair Housing Center, Inc. in Hartford. The funding, awarded through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's Fair Housing Initiatives Program, will be used to better ensure compliance with federal fair housing laws to improve the effectiveness of foreclosure prevention programs, fair lending and other initiatives. "As we continue our economic recovery, it is crucial that we effectively monitor housing practices to ensure that Connecticut residents are being treated equally and fairly," said Congressman Larson. "Connecticut Fair Housing provides homebuyers and homeowners in Greater Hartford and Connecticut with an invaluable service by identifying and eliminating unfair housing practices. I am glad they have been awarded this funding and know it will help them continue their vital work for our communities and ultimately our economy." "It is an honor to be the only organization in the state to receive HUD funding to continue our fair housing testing, investigation and enforcement work, in addition to enabling us to expand our fair lending and foreclosure prevention work. We are particularly looking forward to working with our national partners to ensure that homeowners in foreclosure are not victimized by discrimination when they attempt to modify their mortgages," said Erin Kemple, Executive Director, Connecticut Fair Housing Center. The funding for The Connecticut Fair Housing Center includes a $325,000 renewal of their previous Private Enforcement to investigate and enforce alleged violations of the Fair Housing Act. In addition, the award includes a complementary $301,781 grant under the Fair Housing Organization Initiative, to build their capacity to serve areas with Limited English Proficiency. ###
09.26.2013	Washington – Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) announced a $17,448 grant for Northwestern Connecticut Community College's Small Rural Hospital Improvement Grant Program. The grant, awarded through the Health Resources and Services Administration, will be used to support efforts in quality improvement and efficiency training at New Milford Hospital and Sharon Hospital. "The work at the Office of Rural Health within Northwestern Connecticut Community College aims to lower hospital costs and most importantly improve outcomes for patients," said Larson. "I am pleased to see them receive this funding and look forward to watching their continued efforts to improve access to health care in rural communities in the Northwest corner." "These grants will support and help improve the great work of New Milford and Sharon Hospitals – providing quality health care to folks in the Northwest corner. I thank the Health Resources and Services Administration for making a critical investment in Northwestern Connecticut Community College and in health care education and access in our part of the state," said Esty. According to President Barbara Douglass, "Northwestern Connecticut Community College has been privileged to house the Office of Rural Health for well over a decade. We are committed to supporting health care and health care education in our rural service area and delighted to have been able to assist in securing this grant for New Milford and Sharon Hospitals." ###
09.25.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called on Congress to work together to avoid the looming government shutdown and a repeat of the 2011 debt ceiling debacle. The federal government faces shutdown on October 1st if Congress cannot come together on a continuing resolution and will stand to default on its bills if the debt limit is not raised by October 17th. "Today we are again on the precipice of fiscal disaster caused by hostage politics. A small but vocal few in Washington have become the tail that wags the dog, with certain Members of the House set on brinksmanship rather than partnership. "The American people are sick and tired of partisan politics getting in the way of job growth and economic stability. With these looming crises casting a shadow over our nation, the entire Congress must come together to develop real solutions. Whether you are a Democrat, Republican, Tea Party or Green Party, no Member should want to continue a pattern of uncertainty that has stalled our recovery and hampered job growth across the nation. "In the coming weeks, Congress must do their job to ensure an operable government and avoid defaulting on the full faith and credit of the United States. I commend President Obama for remaining firm on the nation's commitment to paying its bills and call on every Member of Congress to come together on a path that invests in America and puts our country back to work." Earlier, Treasury Secretary Jack Lew wrote a letter to Congressional Leadership calling for immediate action on the debt limit. In his letter, Secretary Lew highlights the negative economic impact of the 2011 debt ceiling debate which ultimately led to a downgrade of the nation's credit rating. ###
09.24.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $44,758 in federal funding for the Central Connecticut Regional Planning Agency (CCRPA). The grant, awarded through the Economic Development Administration, aims to strengthen investment and job creation in Central Connecticut by supporting an update to the CCRPA's comprehensive economic development strategy. The grant will also fund two part-time positions to help coordinate collaboration between public and private sectors in the region. "Strengthening partnerships between our public and private sectors is critical to economic development in Central Connecticut," said Congressman Larson. "Those partnerships, along with additional resources available to our municipalities, are vital to our recovery. I am pleased that the CCRPA has received this funding and look forward to seeing increased collaboration across the region." "This grant will give CCRPA the resources we need to expand the economic development services we provide to the region. We are delighted to be able to dedicate resources to helping our member towns develop projects and obtain funding," said Timothy Malone, Senior Planner at CCRPA. In August, the CCRPA was officially designated as an Economic Development District (EDD) by the U.S. Department of Commerce. The designation increases access to resources for strengthening economic recovery in the region that includes Berlin, Bristol, Burlington, New Britain, Plainville, Plymouth and Southington. ###
09.23.2013	Hartford – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement today after the U.S. Senate confirmed Democrat Ann Ravel and Republican Lee Goodman to the Federal Election Commission (FEC): "For every American to realize the benefits of our great democracy, the broken electoral process must be fixed. It is crucial that as we continue our work to fix this system, we provide the Federal Election Commission the tools and staff it needs to enforce the financial regulations necessary in our elections. Today's Senate confirmations are a good step towards bolstering the ability of the FEC to carry out its mission, ultimately helping to curb other challenges facing the electoral system." In January, Larson and other Members of the Democratic Caucus joined in a letter urging President Barack Obama to fill ongoing vacancies within the FEC. ###
09.19.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of H.R. 3102, the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act of 2013, by the U.S. House of Representatives: "Today, our fears were realized as Congress passed a damaging bill that threatens to starve our children, seniors and veterans. "By voting to cut $40 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), and denying food aid to nearly 4 million Americans, Republicans continue to ignore the needs of our most vulnerable populations, and instead opt to punish those who are still struggling to find work at a time of high unemployment. "Hunger advocates, faith organizations and farm groups alike stood firmly opposed to today's bill. I continue to stand with those who understand the harmful impact of this legislation, and hope we can agree on a bipartisan bill that restores these devastating cuts." ###
09.19.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on efforts by House Republican leadership to disrupt the Affordable Care Act. To date, the Republican controlled House has attempted to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act more than 40 times, threatening care and services for millions of Americans. "Attempts by House Republican leadership to disrupt healthcare have gone well beyond a political exercise in futility. Now, with this latest effort to defund the Affordable Care Act by threatening to shut down the federal government, the Republican Congress threatens to wreck healthcare for a third of all Americans including our seniors. "By defunding the Affordable Care Act and shutting down the federal government, Republican leadership would effectively disrupt payments to Medicare providers and Medicare advantage plans for millions of seniors and increase out-of-pocket costs. In addition, defunding would also weaken our efforts to reduce fraud in our healthcare system and eliminate new prescription drug coverage and preventative care under Medicare. "The Republican Congress cannot continue to make idle threats when the care of our seniors and millions of Americans hangs in the balance. It's long overdue that we move forward to put our country back to work and deal with the issues that matter to the American people." ###
09.16.2013	Washington — Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that the U.S. Air Force will invest $12 million to upgrade a hangar at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks. The hangar is being improved in preparation for the arrival of Air National Guard C-130H cargo planes that will be based out of Bradley. The 103rd Airlift Wing of the Connecticut Air National Guard is transitioning to a C-130H mission later this year. "Bradley International Airport is the hub for air travel in Southern New England, housing both commercial airliners as well as military aircraft," said Larson. "By undertaking this project, the Air Force will help ensure the viability of the Flying Yankees' mission by affording the Air National Guard the best facilities for the C-130 military transports soon to arrive in Connecticut." "This investment by the Air Force to improve a hangar that will be used for the upcoming C-130H mission is a tangible sign of progress towards the Flying Yankees' critical new mission," Courtney said. "With the C-130 mission, the Connecticut Air National guard will have a long term and relevant mission in support of our national defense, and I am eager and excited to see the planes on the ramp at Bradley soon." The 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), passed by Congress last year, approved the Air Force's plan for restructuring the Air National Guard. Included in that plan was the assignment of 8 C-130H cargo aircraft to Bradley as a new permanent flying mission. According to the Air Force, the first C-130s will arrive at Bradley later this year. Since losing its A-10s as part of the 2005 Base Closing process, the 103rd AW has been flying a temporary "bridge mission" of C-21 transport aircraft. ###
09.10.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Barack Obama addressed the nation on Syria: "I commend President Barack Obama for agreeing to an international discussion on the proposal to collect and destroy chemical weapons in Syria. These talks will strengthen the global response to Syria and advance the diplomatic approach that I and many others in Connecticut's first district are calling for. "Many Americans agree that our best path forward begins with a diplomatic and international answer to the problems in Syria. After hearing from my constituents, I know this is the correct approach in response to the vile chemical attacks experienced by the Syrian people." Recently, Congressman Larson called for the global community to come together to exhaust all international and diplomatic options before moving forward in Syria. This Sunday, September 15th, Larson will update constituents on Syria at a forum in East Hartford. ###
09.09.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on reports that Russia would support an effort by the international community to collect and destroy Syria's chemical weapons in order to avert an international military action. "I am encouraged by Russia's response to Secretary Kerry's remarks and believe this call to collect and destroy Syria's supply of chemical weapons is a necessary step towards preventing the future use of chemical weapons in the Middle East and around the world. These actions, combined with a continued and complete investigation by the United Nations Security Council into the atrocities committed by the Assad Regime, would serve as an appropriate response. "At my recent forum in West Hartford, constituents expressed that to do nothing was not the answer, despite anxiety over U.S involvement in another conflict. Further, many asked that all diplomatic and international efforts be exhausted before moving forward. That is why I welcome Russia's announcement today, as it demonstrates their willingness to be a key player in the United Nations Security Council and work towards a diplomatic solution." Last week, Congressman Larson announced plans to introduce a resolution in Congress in support of an international response to Syria. In addition to the resolution, Larson has sent letters to U.N. Ambassador Samantha Power, U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon along with a letter to Congressional leadership on the issue. All three letters are linked below. Letter to U.N. Ambassador Samantha Power Letter to U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon Letter to Colleagues ###
09.06.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced plans to introduce a resolution in Congress urging the international community to act collectively in response to the use of chemical weapons in Syria. In a letter sent today to Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi and others, Larson asked his colleagues to join his efforts to bring the United States' case to the United Nations Security Council in order to pursue the most effective international course of action. "The horrific attacks in Syria were a violation of human decency that deserve the attention of every nation," said Larson. "This week, I joined many others in applauding the President for bringing his case for military action before Congress, giving us time to refine our intelligence and hear the opinions of the American people. At a recent forum on Syria in West Hartford, many expressed their concerns over the United States entering another conflict with memories of the Iraq debacle fresh in their minds. Despite their apprehension, many also agreed it would be a mistake to do nothing in the face of such a vile atrocity. "In light of the responses from my constituents, and the evidence presented to me from the administration, I believe the United States must exhaust all international avenues as Congress begins its debate. Our nation must act in concert with our international partners, nearly all of whom signed agreements prohibiting the use of chemical weapons. We must bring our case to the United Nations Security Council to help garner international support, in spite of the abhorrent obstructionism shown by Russia. "That is why I plan to introduce a resolution in Congress in support of a collaborative, global response to these attacks. While it is clear that those responsible for the use of chemical weapons must be held accountable for their actions, I stand with many Americans in Connecticut and across the country who understand that ultimately our strength will come from an international response." In addition to his resolution, Larson has written letters to both U.N. Ambassador Samantha Power and U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon expressing the need for an international response to Syria. Text of the letter to Speaker Boehner, Leader Pelosi and other Members below: Dear Colleague, We are all shocked and horrified by the chemical weapons attack that occurred in Syria on August 21, 2013. This was a violation of international law and more importantly a violation of human decency. In recent days, the Obama administration has presented to the American public, Congress, and the world community, evidence that indicates with a high degree of confidence that the Syrian government, led by Bashar al-Assad, is responsible for this heinous act. In addition, the United Nations has sent in inspectors to confirm that a chemical weapons attack occurred and will issue a report in the coming week, but will not identify the perpetrator of the act. Nearly every nation on the planet has signed agreements that prohibit the use of chemical weapons. Clearly, we cannot allow this violation to go without a response. The President made the appropriate decision to request authorization from Congress to use military force prior to engaging our forces. Congress must now determine the appropriate course of action, and I believe this means ensuring that the United States is acting in concert with international partners to respond to this breach in international law. This means bringing our case to the United Nations Security Council and seeking a decision on an international course of action. However, over the course of the last few days one of the permanent members of the U.N. Security Council – Russia – has rejected the assessment put forward by the U.S. government attributing responsibility to the Syrian government for this attack and putting blame on the rebel forces. This is in spite of a clear and convincing case presented by our government showing that the Assad regime is responsible and without providing any evidence to the contrary. I urge you to cosponsor the resolution below calling on the international community to act collaboratively to respond to the chemical weapons attack, urge the United Nations Security Council to immediately meet to examine evidence put forward by the United States in regards to the Assad regime's responsibility for these actions, and to determine a recommended course of action. If Russia has evidence to contradict our government's assessment, they should bring that forward to the international community at that time. However, simply blocking any attempt to move forward with a resolution on the Security Council should not be acceptable. This is not the time for obstructionism. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has urged the Security Council to "unite and develop an appropriate response" following the report back from the UN inspectors, stating that "this is a larger issue than the conflict in Syria. This is about our collective responsibility to mankind." As Secretary Kerry stated before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, the world is watching our actions, and it is up to us to lead by working with the international community to enforce international laws. Sincerely, JOHN B. LARSONMember of Congress ###
09.06.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $150,000 for the preservation of the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center collections. The competitive grant marks the second phase of federal funding awarded to the center through the Institute of Museum and Library Services, Museums for America program. "The works of Harriet Beecher Stowe opened the eyes of many to the outrages of slavery in the United States," said Congressman Larson. "With this funding, the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center in Hartford can better protect her works and collections, ensuring these vital pieces of American history are preserved for years to come." "The Stowe Center is delighted to receive this public support for a project preserving Harriet Beecher Stowe's Hartford home for our diverse international audiences. This grant is a significant investment in Center's historic collections, which tell a national story important for all of us," said Katherine Kane, Executive Director of the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center. The funding announced today matches an over $400,000 investment by the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center to purchase and install a new mechanical system, make climate and environmental control improvements and install fire detection and protection at the center. ###
08.31.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama spoke on Syria at the Rose Garden: "I commend the President for seeking congressional authorization for military action in Syria, answering widespread calls for the case to be made to Congress and the American people. "Now, every Member will have an opportunity to debate the merits of the use of force in Syria and vote in the interests of national security and most importantly the will of the people. As we prepare to return to Congress to begin our debate I will be announcing a community forum to be held on Monday in Connecticut's First on this issue and look forward to hearing from my constituents." ###
08.29.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced plans to reintroduce a resolution in Congress supporting the establishment of a Presidential Youth Council to advise the President of the United States on the perspectives of young Americans. The Council would also offer views on how to most effectively use federal funding that impacts youth. "Across the nation there are more than 100 million Americans under the age of 24. These young men and women deserve a voice as we make critical decisions that will affect the future of this country," said Congressman Larson. "The perspectives of our youth should be an essential part of shaping policy that directly impacts them. That's why a Presidential Youth Council is so important and why I am proud of the work of our own First Congressional District Youth Cabinet here in Connecticut. I urge Members to join me in support of this resolution to truly create a government of the people, by the people, and for the people." Congressman Larson announced plans to reintroduce the resolution, originally proposed by the Campaign for a Presidential Youth Council, while hosting a Forum on Youth Engagement today in collaboration with the First Congressional District Youth Cabinet. Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Connecticut Secretary of State Denise Merrill and other leading experts also joined the discussion on the importance of youth engagement and what meaningful youth engagement looks like in practice. Other speakers included Alex Wirth of The Huffington Post, Elizabeth Krause of the Connecticut Health Foundation and Thaddeus Ferber, Vice President of Policy for the Forum on Youth Investment. Larson plans to reintroduce the resolution following Congress's return to Washington. ###
08.28.2013	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today: "Before the United States commits troops on the ground or decides on the use of force in Syria the President needs to convene Congress and make the case to the American people. "Assad's assault on humanity deserves a response from the world community not just the United States. The Administration who has been making the case to the world community must make that case to Congress." ###
08.22.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Barack Obama's remarks at SUNY Buffalo: "I applaud the President for refocusing attention on college affordability, which is quickly turning into a crisis for middle class families and placing the American dream further out of reach for our young people. I would also like to recognize the leadership of Representative Joe Courtney, who is a tireless advocate on behalf of our students and families, and recently pushed Congress to lower student loan interest rates ahead of the new school year. The fight to improve college affordability is far from over and should be a top priority for our nation; I look forward to working with the President and Rep. Courtney as we take on this challenge." ###
08.06.2013	Hartford - Monday, August 5th, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined the University of Connecticut's Department of Extension in a book reading of Susie and Jerome Learn about a Healthy Home. The book, written by Department of Extension Educators Joan Bothell and Mary-Margaret Gaudio, is part of the Healthy Environments for Children Initiative (HEC) designed to help parents, guardians, teachers and other caring adults provide a healthy environment for children. The book was developed in partnership with the Connecticut Department of Public Health. "This book is an excellent way to educate our young children and families on effective, safe practices around the home," said Congressman Larson. "Whether you are a parent or a child, every member of a household should work together to create a healthier, safer living environment. I thank UConn for giving me the opportunity to participate in their book launch and look forward to seeing this partnership help children and families across the state." According to Gaudio, "By involving children at an early age and introducing them to characters they can relate to--like Susie and Jerome--we hope to instill life-long good habits." Click Here to Watch the Animated Version Monday's book reading took place at the East Hartford YMCA preschool program located in the Lois Pauline Nolan Larson Center. The book focuses on ways children and families can create a healthier home in order to minimize health risks and safety hazards such as lead poisoning, asthma attacks and exposure to dangerous chemicals like pesticides or tobacco smoke. Copies of the book and healthy home fact sheets were distributed to families in attendance following the reading. ### Susie B. Careful and her fish friend, Jerome,Are proud to call Mayberry Village their home.It's now safer and healthier, with a future green garden,Thanks to the efforts of Congressman Larson. UConn's thanks go to him and his hardworking staff,We're delighted he read, and made us all laugh.Linkletter's gone, but John Larson's still hereTeaching kids to be healthy, with wit and good cheer. By Mary Margerat Gaudio & Joan Bothell, UConn
08.05.2013	Hartford, CT — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut's Congressional Delegation today applauded the release of approved health insurance plans to be sold on the Access Health CT marketplace. Connecticut residents can begin shopping on the marketplace, established by the landmark Affordable Care Act, October 1. These rates are the cost of health insurance before tax credits available to individuals and families purchasing their own health insurance policies. For example, families of four with incomes up to $94,200 a year will be eligible for tax credits to help pay for health insurance. Individuals with qualifying income levels are also eligible for tax credits. "Today's announcement is further proof that health care reform is working for residents across Connecticut. People who currently cannot afford insurance will particularly benefit from reduced costs that resulted from the rate review process and the tax credits that will make health care even more affordable, for both individuals and small businesses. Lower costs, and increased access and transparency, bode well for the future of health care in Connecticut and across America." ###
08.05.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Senator Richard Blumenthal and Senator Chris Murphy in announcing a $100,000 U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Business Enterprise grant for the non-for-profit Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), based in East Hartford, Conn. The grant will be used to help determine the feasibility of alternative fuel plants in north-central Connecticut. "Ending our dependency on foreign oil is an essential part of strengthening economic growth nationally and in Connecticut," said Larson. "This study will help determine the best path forward for energy independence in an area that encompasses a large number of homes, vehicles and aerospace industries currently relying heavily on imported oil. I am pleased to see this funding coming to Connecticut and will be watching this study closely in the coming months." "This grant is a win-win for Connecticut, providing funding to identify ways to grow jobs and improve energy independence through creation of an alternative fuels facility in rural North-Central Connecticut. Such a facility could provide as many as 150 permanent jobs, taking advantage of existing sustainable energy sources, including municipal solid waste and biomass. I applaud the USDA for investing in this important study, and look forward to seeing positive results in the near future," said Blumenthal. "If we're serious about putting an end to our dependence on foreign oil, we need to build the types of alternative energy plants CCAT hopes to work on," said Murphy. "USDA funding will help CCAT determine if one of these plants can be built in a part of Connecticut where there's a heavy dependence on foreign oil and a need to shift to alternative sources of energy. I'm thrilled USDA will be supporting this study, and I look forward to hearing about its results." CCAT is well-positioned to spearhead the study. The organization is currently leading several significant alternative fuel efforts— a $20 million, five-year coal/biomass to fuel program that tests technologies critical to creating alternative fuels from biomass and fossil sources for the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency; the Connecticut State biodiesel program for the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD); and regional collaborations to advance hydrogen fuel cell usage. "CCAT will leverage the knowledge we've gained from these ongoing programs and our research expertise in alternative fuels to foster the success of this feasibility study," said Elliot Ginsberg, president and chief executive officer, CCAT. "We recognize the value of this study not only to help further economic development within Connecticut and the region but also to impact renewable energy production nationwide." CCAT is partnering with alternative fuel industry leaders to conduct the study. Solena, a sustainable energy firm headquartered in Washington, D.C., is developing facilities around the world to produce sustainable, non-petroleum sourced jet and diesel fuels. Fiberight, a leading edge clean technology company based in Catonsville, Maryland, focuses on transforming post-recycled municipal solid wastes and other organic feedstocks into next generation renewable biofuels. "The development of advanced renewable fuel holds tremendous potential to create jobs and grow the economy, particularly across rural America," said Todd Campbell, special assistant for energy programs, USDA Rural Development. "USDA has prioritized efforts to strengthen the biobased economy, and today's award to CCAT builds on record efforts under the Obama Administration to develop an 'all-of-the-above' energy strategy for our nation." In March, Larson, Blumenthal and Murphy wrote a letter to Jay Healy, State Director for USDA Rural Development, in support of the grant. Future alternative fuel plants could increase North-Central Connecticut's energy independence while supporting job growth in the area. The study of implementing an alternative fuels facility in north-central Connecticut will ultimately determine the economic and operational feasibility of alternative fuel plants, including biomass that can be grown and harvested in the rural region surrounding north-central Connecticut and municipal solid waste, in the area. ###
08.02.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama announced Linda Schwartz, Connecticut Commissioner of Veterans Affairs, as his nominee for Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Policy and Planning: "With troops home from Iraq and continuing to return from Afghanistan, our nation faces a number of challenges that require the type of experience and expertise very few leaders possess. Linda's years of experience working within the Armed Services along with her successful record of advocacy on behalf of veterans' rights make her the type of leader our nation needs to better support the veteran community. An active member of the First Congressional District Military and Veterans Advisory council, Linda understands the concerns of veterans in New England and what needs to be done to ensure they receive the benefits they deserve. "I applaud Commissioner Schwartz's nomination today and know her steadfast leadership and drive to improve the lives of veterans in Connecticut and across the country make her the best choice for Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs." ###
07.31.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passage of H.R. 1911, The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013: "I applaud the House for acting to lower student loan interest rates before the start of the next school year. With national student loan debt climbing to over $1 trillion, students and their families are in urgent need of assistance following the rise in interest rates less than a month ago. While the fight to reduce student debt is far from over, this bipartisan legislation provides much needed relief for our students and their families. "I commend Representative Joe Courtney for his leadership on this issue and look forward to continuing our efforts to lower the costs of higher education." ###
07.30.2013	Originally published in the Journal Inquirer on July 30, 2013 As we approach the hurricane season, the potential impact of extreme weather escalates for all of our communities. In the face of looming disaster, The House of Representatives' underfunding of the chief agency responsible for flood protection demonstrates an alarming indifference to the crumbling infrastructure around us, and highlights a need to act. The Army Corps of Engineers is charged with protecting our homes, businesses and natural resources here in Connecticut and across the nation. Unfortunately, the Appropriations bill that passed through the House turned a blind eye to the perils faced by the people behind the aging levee systems in Hartford and East Hartford and across the nation. We are currently relying on a levee system that has not seen a major overhaul since the earlier half of the 20th century, despite development, changing water levels and a seepage issue that threatens the integrity of the system with each passing day. While the costs of these improvements are high, the costs of doing nothing are far greater. If these systems fail, much of greater Hartford would be impacted including I-91, downtown Hartford and Brainard Airport along with vital pipelines and wastewater treatment facilities. Various studies by the MDC have verified these threats, calling for mitigation on seepage issues and the replacement of toe drains, pump stations and conduits. We all know the terrible consequences that occur when flooding and natural disasters strike in highly populated areas. In 2012, Hurricane Sandy devastated the Northeast, resulting in the loss of life, billions of dollars worth of damage and countless upended families across the region. Regrettably, the very agency charged with taking preventive steps to curb the impact of extreme weather receives little more than $1 billion in annual construction funding, despite having an estimated $60 billion backlog of approved projects awaiting funding. While the Center for American Progress points out that every dollar invested in pre-disaster mitigation or resilience measures can reduce the cost of damage by four dollars, agencies like the Army Corps continue to be vastly underfunded. This past March, Commander of the New England District Army Corps of Engineers Col Charles Sammaris responded to our invitation to tour the levee system and stated with more than some irony that it is more likely to get emergency funding after a disaster than get funding to make the up-front repairs. The irony of this will not be lost on the people behind the levees. Congress cannot sleepwalk its way through this problem. Congress needs to embrace legislation such as a national infrastructure bank that leverages the private sector to give critical projects access to capital. The Senate has passed a water resources bill creating innovative financing mechanisms and a National Levee Safety Program. At a recent forum in Harford, Republican Chairman Bill Shuster of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure informed us that he is working on crafting legislation aimed at fixing our broken federal levee funding process in the House. Shuster agrees that infrastructure is neither Republican nor Democrat - it is American, and it should be a top priority. Our Hartford levee system was built as a result of the devastating hurricane of 1938, which left major damage in its wake. Last year's Hurricane Sandy was just another wakeup call that Congress needs to act.
07.25.2013	READ FULL BRIEF HERE Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, joined Ranking Member Robert A. Brady (PA-01) of the Committee on House Administration, and Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (MI-13) of the House Judiciary Committee, in submitting an Amicus brief to the Supreme Court regarding the upcoming McCutcheon v. FEC case. The three leading members were joined on the brief by 82 fellow members of the House of Representatives in urging the Court to uphold portions of the "McCain-Feingold" Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002. This act restricted the total dollar amount of aggregate contributions a donor may make to candidate committees and other non-candidate political entities, such as political parties and PACs. "In the past few years, several high profile Supreme Court cases have opened the floodgates for special interest money to enter our electoral process by weakening long established regulations on campaign contributions," said Congressman Larson. "This fall, the Supreme Court will have another opportunity to either allow special interests a new avenue in their relentless pursuit to buy-and-sell our elections, or prevent further corruption by upholding contribution limits vital to the integrity of our system. I'm proud to have joined 84 of my colleagues in sending an amicus brief to the Supreme Court asking them to uphold aggregate contribution limits as they argue McCutcheon v. FEC, and continue this essential check on the excessive role of money on our elections." "I am proud to join my colleagues in supporting current campaign contribution limits," said House Administration Ranking Member Robert A. Brady. " The Supreme Court has long held that contribution limits are a constitutional exercise of Congress's regulatory authority. Contribution limits are necessary to guard against corruption and ensure that elected officials work to represent the constituents that elected them rather than further the narrow interests of wealthy contributors. The unchecked influx of secret, unlimited money after the Court's Citizens United decision continues to further erode the faith the American public has in its elected officials. Striking down aggregate contribution limits would be devastating to our democracy." "The Supreme Court's Citizen's United decision has had an unquestionably corrosive impact on preventing corruption in our democratic process, and permitting corporate and special interests to make near limitless campaign contributions," said Congressman Conyers. "To remedy this, I joined alongside 84 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives in submitting an amicus brief to the Supreme Court, in the case of McCutcheon v. FEC, urging the Court to support aggregate contribution limits. With our campaign finance laws under assault, I hope that the Supreme Court recognizes the importance of protecting one of the most important vestiges of electoral integrity." McCutcheon v. FEC is scheduled for oral argument before the Supreme Court this October. Being challenged is the constitutionality of the current aggregate contribution limits that have been in place since the enactment of the 2002 Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act. Currently, this places a $48,600 limit for individual contributions to federal candidate committees combined and no more than $74,600 to all PACs and parties combined in a two-year cycle. If the Supreme Court rules to end these limits, donors may directly contribute upwards of $3.5 million dollars to candidate committees and other non-candidate entities, such as national political parties, state political parties, and non-party committees. Many legal analysts believe a ruling striking down these aggregate limits could pave the way for a future decision which could eliminate all contribution limits, including individual candidate contribution limits, leading to unlimited direct campaign contributions. ###
07.24.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Trude Mero, a long-time community activist in Hartford and former Chair of the Connecticut African-American Affairs Commission: "Trude Mero epitomized advocacy in Connecticut. A first-hand witness to the evils of segregation and racism, Trude stood boldly against injustice in Hartford. A loving mother, grandmother, wife and friend, Trude Mero was a pillar of her community and will be missed by those fortunate enough to have known her. I am saddened by the news of her passing and extend my thoughts and prayers to her family during these tough times." ###
07.18.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the Senate confirmation of Gina McCarthy to head the Environmental Protection Agency: "In New England, former Commissioner Gina McCarthy stood out as an environmental leader who understood the issues facing our region. Her determination to protect our natural resources so that our children and their children could benefit from all they have to offer is part of her legacy here in Connecticut. Now, as the new head of the EPA, Gina can continue her efforts to diminish the impact of current environmental issues and advance initiatives to both reduce pollution and address climate change." ###
07.18.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce on intellectual property in India. The event, hosted by the Global Intellectual Property Center, focused on India's recent legal and policy decisions, and how they are impacting intellectual property rights. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Over the past year, I've become very concerned by what I've heard regarding the environment for American businesses operating in India. Whether it be patent violations and compulsory licensing in the pharmaceutical industries; piracy within the software and film industries; local content rules in the technology sector; or forced localization in the Green Tech industries, the news coming out of India has not been good for American innovators. I took interest in this issue because I fundamentally believe that as a government it is our responsibility to protect the work created by American innovators and entrepreneurs. I also realized that by protecting our IP rights, we are in effect protecting American jobs and the potential for American businesses to grow. America is at its heart a nation of innovators, and millions of American jobs rely on this innovation. Whether you work at an aerospace company, like Pratt & Whitney; a pharmaceutical company, such as Pfizer; or even a movie studio, such as Blue Sky, you owe your job to innovation. Put more succinctly, you owe your job to the fact that the United States and our international partners understand that an innovator has a right to own what they create and takes steps to ensure that this right is protected. What would happen if all of a sudden there were no protections for our intellectual property? Would the next drug to address heart disease be developed if our drug companies thought a competitor had a right to steal their innovation? How would they ever expect to recoup the costs of the research and development they put into that drug's development? Although what we're seeing take place isn't nearly that dramatic, it's critical that we nonetheless address the challenges we're facing with India head on. We must ensure that the rights that come with a patent are protected and that decisions by our foreign allies are made in accordance with international obligations. India, as we all know, is one of the world's largest economies, and provides American companies one of their greatest growth markets. Add that to the fact that India is a leader among the developing world, with many nations taking their cues from the Indian Government, and it is clear that this issue cannot go unaddressed. I'm an optimist, though. I continue to believe that the United States and India can find a "win-win" solution to our current challenges. I know that you've just heard from my colleague Eric Paulsen of Minnesota. I was happy to work with him last month on a letter to the President that highlighted our concerns with what is occurring in India. As you know, we received quite a bit of support on our letter with more than 150 Members from both sides of the aisle signing on. I think that proved that, for the most part, Members still understand – even if it doesn't always show through the partisan, tastes great, less filling arguments – that the top concern on their constituents' minds is job creation. Thankfully, the President gets it. As a result of our letter and others like it, and the work of organizations like the Global IP Center, Secretary of State Kerry broached this issue during his recent visit to India. And more recently, our new USTR Ambassador – Michael Froman – who I just heard from this morning, spoke eloquently on these challenges at a meeting of the U.S.-India Business Council. These efforts by the Congress, the Administration, and the business community are hopefully leading to results. Already I've seen reports coming out of India that changes are being implemented. We'll keep up our efforts up on Capitol Hill until we see real results as opposed to simply hearing about actions. As my Grandpa Nolan would always say, "Trust everyone, but cut the cards." ###
07.12.2013	Washington — Reps. John B. Larson, Rosa DeLauro, and Jim Himes today applauded the news $3,262,739 in federal grants to help approximately 715 homeless and at-risk veterans and their families in Connecticut. The grants provide funding to local organizations to help prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and to help re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness. The Workplace, Inc. in Bridgeport; Community Renewal Team, Inc. in Hartford; and Columbus House, Inc. in New Haven will use the funding to provide a range of services that promote housing stability and play a key role in connecting veterans and their family members to VA services, such as mental health care and other benefits. "We must honor the sacrifices of our military service members and provide them with the tools they need when they return home," said Larson. "With this funding, Community Renewal Team in Hartford and other organizations will have additional resources to both support these returning service members and help lower the rate of veterans' homelessness in Connecticut and across the nation." "As a nation, we have an obligation to ensure that, at the very least, the brave men and women who serve our country have a place to call home," DeLauro said. "We have to be sure we are doing everything possible to facilitate the transition from the battlefield back to civilian life. These grants will go a long way towards helping some of those with the most difficulty making the transition." Himes said, "A safe, decent place to call home is absolutely essential to holding a job and enjoying the American way of life these veterans fought to protect. I applaud the comprehensive nature of this program and am glad to see the Workplace will have more resources to continue its work helping local veterans." "This new SSVF funding is critical to our efforts in CT toward preventing and ending homelessness for Veterans in our state. We are grateful to Secretary Shinseki for his vision and commitment to reaching these goals. We are proud to serve Veterans and their families across New Haven, Middlesex and New London counties," said Alison Cunningham, Executive Director of Columbus House. "We are very proud that the Department of Veterans Affairs is expressing confidence in our work over the last two years with nearly 350 Veteran families, and is allowing us to expand from Hartford, Middlesex and New Haven into New London County. We are honored to support those who have served our country," said Lena Rodriguez, President and CEO of Community Renewal Team. "The Supportive Services for Veteran Families program is a significant component in the suite of services we provide veterans. With our community partners we are working to prevent at-risk veterans from becoming homeless and rapidly re-house those who have recently fallen into homelessness." said Joe Carbone, President and CEO of The WorkPlace. "My sincere gratitude goes to Connecticut congressional delegation for their invaluable support for veteran programs." The full list of Connecticut awards from the Supportive Services for Veteran Families program is as follows: Community Renewal Team will serve approximately 175 eligible households in Hartford, Middlesex, New London and New Haven counties with their $519,000 award. The Workplace will serve approximately 240 eligible households in Southwest and South Central Connecticut with their $1,256,494 award. Columbus House will serve approximately 300 eligible households in New Haven, New London and Middlesex counties with their $1,487,245 award. ###
07.11.2013	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the passage of the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 2642) by the U.S. House of Representatives: "The purpose of the farm bill has always been to support rural America and feed the nation. Yet, in spite of the pleas of over five hundred agricultural organizations, faith groups and hunger advocates, the House majority chose a completely partisan approach supported by the Koch brothers that starves the nation by denying vital nutrition to the elderly, the infirmed and to our children. "Our job in Congress is to make sure that no one in this country is, in the words of FDR, "ill-fed, ill-clothed and ill-housed." Whether you live in a rural or urban district, we must work together to help every American get the sustenance he or she needs – and that should also include the least among us." The attached letter includes the names of over 500 organizations standing in opposition to the approach taken today by the House majority. ###
07.10.2013	Washington – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the House floor to call on Congress to invest in America's infrastructure. This week, the U.S. House of Representatives is debating the fiscal year 2014 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, H.R. 2609. Excerpted Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: "Repairing our infrastructure is not a Republican or Democratic issue; it is an American issue. I am disheartened to see a bill on the floor this week that under-invests in critical infrastructure projects. Whether it's roads, bridges, airports, deep harbors, school systems or levees, our infrastructure must be strengthened. In these difficult economic times, we must also do all we can to put the nation back to work. In order to do this, we must improve the very infrastructure in which our commerce flows. "In the First District, 75-year-old levee systems between Hartford and East Hartford require repairs to ensure they can withstand increasingly common extreme weather. In addition to local investment, these municipalities need the assistance of Army Corps of Engineers to meet the requirements of the federal government. Despite estimates that every dollar spent investing in pre-disaster mitigation can reduce the costs of damage by four dollars, Congress has continually underinvested in the Army Corps. We must provide them the support they need to fulfill their mission of protecting Americans from natural disaster. "Congress cannot continue to sleep while our infrastructure erodes from underneath us. We must come together and invest in our infrastructure to ensure the American people are safe, secure and back to work." ###
07.08.2013	Hartford, CT – U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced today a $141,420 Assistance to Firefighters Grant for the Connecticut Public Broadcasting Network (CPTV) to produce a series of fire safety educational programs to air on their network during the holiday season. Connecticut Public Television will partner with Stepping Stones Museum and State Fire Marshal Robert Ross to produce the series of education vignettes, which will target vulnerable populations including the elderly, disabled and children. The grant program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. "Providing comprehensive and up to date information on fire prevention is crucial to avoiding fire related dangers in and outside the home," said Larson. "With this funding, Connecticut residents will have an excellent tool at their disposal for learning the best ways to avoid a fire, making our communities safer and helping to reduce the number hazardous situations for our first responders." "In this fiscal year alone, Connecticut residents and first responders have received 22 federal fire safety grants, offering vital funding to hire and train new firefighters and provide our brave first responders with the best technology and safety equipment available. This latest grant—to assist Connecticut Public Television in producing a series of educational fire safety videos—complements the efforts of all of our heroic firefighters across the state. There is no better way to keep our residents and first responders safe than to prevent fires from occurring in the first place, and to provide residents with life-saving information for what to do and how to stay safe in the event a fire occurs," Blumenthal said. "This grant recognizes the Connecticut Public Broadcasting Network's deep commitment to educating families in our state about fire safety," said Murphy. "This series of educational videos will help prevent fires and teach people how to stay safe when fires do happen. This is important for people of all ages, especially during the holiday season, when we see a spike in accidental fires. I'm proud to support CPTV's creative approach to fire prevention and safety." Connecticut Public Television (CPTV) President and CEO Jerry Franklin said, "We are absolutely thrilled to be partnering with Stepping Stones Museum and the State Fire Marshal. We are thrilled to be working on this very important project to educate the residents of the State of Connecticut in fire prevention and safety." The grant is the 22nd firefighting grant awarded in Connecticut in Fiscal Year 2013. Middletown received $1.14 million to hire eight additional firefighters and Waterbury received $2.9 million to hire new fire recruits through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) and Assistance to Firefighters grant programs administered by FEMA. Milford, New Britain, New Milford, Brookfield, Stratford, Bristol, East Woodstock, Killingly, Plainfield, Willington, Seymour, Middletown, East Hartford, Shelton, Norwalk, Torrington, Southington and Waterbury also received grants to support operations and safety measures. ###
07.03.2013	(Washington) – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the announcement that the Administration would postpone the employer shared responsibility requirements and mandatory employer and insurer reporting requirements under the Affordable Care Act until 2015: "After conducting various forums and hearing from a number of small businesses in the First District, along with expressing my own concerns to the Administration, I welcome this announcement as a practical and logical step to ensure the Affordable Care Act is implemented correctly. The Affordable Care Act is a tremendous opportunity for all Americans as well as small businesses. In order to fully realize that opportunity, we must work to address the concerns of our constituents and business communities. "While most businesses with more than 50 employees already provide access to coverage, this action offers them additional flexibility to adjust to the law's new requirements. My office will continue to inform Connecticut's First District on the Affordable Care Act, and millions of Americans will continue to experience the benefits outlined in the law as implementation moves forward." ###
07.01.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the student loan rate increase. Interest rates on new federally subsidized student loans have now doubled from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent: "All Americans understand the importance of keeping higher education affordable. Students should be given the opportunity to learn and improve their careers without taking on insurmountable debt that will take years for their families to overcome. Despite this reality, partisanship and politics in Congress have failed our people once again, and this time our students may be forced to deal with the consequences." "Nearly 200 of my colleagues and I have joined in signing a discharge petition to bring this issue to the floor, and yet leaders of the House still refuse our students a vote. It is unimaginable how Members of Congress could be sent home with a crisis of this nature looming over American families. In our recovering economy, it is more than unfair to place additional burdens on students and those helping them through school. All Members must work together now to undo this rate increase and keep the costs of education down." ###
06.27.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the Senate on their efforts to pass the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act. "Today, the Senate worked together to address our broken immigration system. It now falls on the House to take the next step towards fixing a system that has for too long eluded comprehensive reform. It is my hope that Members continue today's spirit of bipartisanship, roll up their sleeves and get to work on this vital legislation. "I also want to applaud Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy for their hard work on a bill that will help Connecticut and the nation." ###
06.27.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Senate confirmation of Anthony Foxx to replace Ray LaHood as Secretary of Transportation: "For over four years, Ray LaHood worked tirelessly to improve our nation's transportation and infrastructure. His efforts to strengthen intermodal transportation and improve the safety of our roads will have a lasting impact in Connecticut and across the Northeast. As a former Republican Congressman in a Democratic Cabinet, Ray epitomized the bipartisanship needed for our nation's growth. I thank him for his service and will be working closely with his successor on Connecticut transportation and infrastructure issues." ###
06.26.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement on the Supreme Court's decision to overturn Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act. The Court's decision strikes down the formula within the Voting Rights Act that determines which states and municipalities with past instances of discrimination must be required to seek approval of changes in voting laws that may affect minority populations, effectively ending the Act's ability to require that approval: "While the Voting Rights Act has been instrumental in empowering voters across the nation, it's no secret that discrimination continues to hamper our electoral process. This week, the Supreme Court chose to disregard the bipartisan will of Congress by striking down a key piece of the Voting Rights Act, which passed with near unanimous support only six years ago. Representative John Lewis could not have put it better when he said the Court stuck a dagger into the heart of this crucial act. "Rather than strengthening the right of all Americans to cast a ballot and participate in their democracy, the Supreme Court has decided to weaken protections and leave some citizens more vulnerable to abuse. I am heartened by Representative Eric Cantor and Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, who previously led the Voting Rights Act's reauthorization, and hope all Members mirror their willingness to work bipartisanly on this issue and come together as they did in 2006 to stand up for the American people and reaffirm our commitment to the Voting Rights Act. "In the wake of this disastrous decision I plan to redouble the efforts of the Task Force on Election Reform to determine how Republicans and Democrats can work with each other to put back together what the Supreme Court has broken." ###
06.26.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Supreme Court's ruling to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act and decision on California's Proposition 8: "The Supreme Court made the right decision to strike down the Defense of Marriage Act and advanced the cause of marriage equality by reestablishing the right of same-sex marriage in California. For too long DOMA denied married couples living in Connecticut and nationwide the federal benefits they have earned for themselves and their families. I commend the work of those in the First District and around the country who continue to fight for the rights of all Americans and know that every day we strengthen equality for all, we become stronger as a nation." In a 5-4 vote, the Court found DOMA, which previously banned federal benefits for same-sex married couples unconstitutional and declined to rule on Proposition 8, allowing a district court ruling to strike down California's ban on same-sex marriage to stand. ###
06.26.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the launch of an improved website, www.larson.house.gov. The site will provide a more user friendly experience for those seeking constituent services and a smoother interface for viewing Larson's work in Connecticut and in Congress. "Today more business is done online than ever before," said Congressman Larson. "The same can be said for my office, with an increasing number of constituents looking to our website for assistance and information. Even in tough economic times, it is crucial that we make these types of investments to ensure complete and efficient services to the people of Connecticut. With the launch of this new site, I hope to provide a faster and more user friendly experience to anyone looking for help online and provide an easier way to see what I am working on in the First District and in Washington." The site features an enhanced 'Help Center' for constituent services, new 'On the Issues' pages for information on Larson's work, easily accessible information on grants and district events along with a more complete 'Legislative Center' to view bills Larson has sponsored, co-sponsored and his voting record. ###
06.20.2013	Each Memorial Day, our nation recognizes the sacrifice of the men and women who fought for our freedom. As we pause to honor the brave soldiers we have lost, and offer our gratitude to their families that gave so much, it is important that we also remember the soldiers who fought alongside them. Whether I am helping veterans receive the medals they deserve, meeting with my Veteran and Military Advisory Council or talking to veterans at local service organizations in the first district, I find that too often veterans and their spouses are unaware of the various options offered by the Department of Veterans Affairs. For example, the VA provides supplemental income to help veterans — including un-remarried surviving spouses and the unmarried children of a deceased veteran — cope with financial challenges through the Veterans and Survivors' pension benefit programs. In addition, veterans and survivors who are eligible for pension benefits and are housebound or require the assistance of another person may be eligible to receive additional compensation known as 'aid and attendance'. The services and healthcare offered by the Department of Veterans Affairs are a small but meaningful token of our appreciation for the sacrifices of our brave service members. I urge all veterans and their families to learn what the VA has to offer. To learn more about what Veterans and their families should know when applying for VA Pension Benefits please visit https://www.benefits.va.gov/PENSIONANDFIDUCIARY/pension/Pensionprograminfo.pdf. You can also speak directly to a representative at the local VA in Newington by calling 800-827-1000. As always, you can reach out to my office at 860-278-8888 where I have veterans on my staff who understand the challenges that exist for our soldiers at home who may have questions or concerns related to VA benefits and healthcare.
06.20.2013	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted down H.R. 1947, the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management (FARM) Act: "This week partisan politics continued to plague Congress. No action was taken to help our economy. No legislation was brought up to strengthen employment. Instead, time was wasted on a harmful farm bill that in the end garnered nowhere near the support needed for what would have been a symbolic passage. "Last Saturday, when farmers in East Hartford, South Windsor and Glastonbury saw hundreds of acres of their crops flooded almost overnight, local officials and experts were on the scene within 24 hours, looking to do all they could to help. That day there were no Republicans or Democrats, only Americans doing what needed to be done to help one another. Washington should take note of that attitude, stop wasting time and work together for the American people. "As we revisit the farm bill after today's debacle, we must work together to stop the painful cuts to food aid for our most vulnerable populations. In addition to preventing nearly 2 million Americans from losing vital food assistance, it is crucial that we address issues with crop insurance to ensure our farmers are able to recover from disasters like the flooding in Connecticut just this past weekend. Moving forward, I stand ready to work with Members on both sides of the aisle to strengthen this bill for our nation." ###
06.17.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT -01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement on the Supreme Court decision on Arizona v. Inter Tribal Council of Arizona, Inc. In a 7-2 decision, the Court ruled that States cannot institute additional voter requirements to the existing federal registration process: "The right of American citizens to cast a ballot must be protected and strengthened. Today the Supreme Court ruled in favor of voters across the nation, confirming that states cannot weaken our rights with burdensome registration requirements. I applaud the Supreme Court for this decision, which will help eliminate voter suppression across the country." Today's ruling stems from a challenge to a 2004 Arizona law that required, in addition to federal safeguards already in place, further proof of citizenship for those registering to vote. In their decision the Supreme Court also cited that the Arizona Law conflicts with, and is preempted by, the National Voter Registration Act, passed by Congress in 1993. Congress has authority over when, where and how elections are held under the Elections Clause of the U.S. Constitution. ###
06.14.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced the 'Honoring Hometown Heroes Act' in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill, authored by Larson and co-sponsored by Congressman Joe Courtney and Congressman Jim Himes along with Congressman Peter King (R-NY), Congressman Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Congressman Bill Johnson (R-OH), and Congressman Robert Andrews (D-NJ) amends the flag code to allow the American flag to be flown at half-staff following the death of any first responder killed in the line of duty. "Every day our first responders put their lives on the line for the safety of our communities, in some cases giving the ultimate sacrifice to help others," said Congressman Larson. "The heroism these brave men and women have shown in just the last six months clearly shows the need to amend our flag code to allow states to fly the flag at half-staff for first responders killed in the line of duty. I am pleased to introduce this legislation in honor of all the first responders we have lost, and thank Representatives Courtney, Himes, King, Grijalva, Johnson and Andrews for joining me in this effort." "The jobs and responsibilities of our first responders and law enforcement officers are more challenging and complex today than ever before," said Congressman Courtney. "When the unthinkable happens, and a first responder is killed in the line of duty, he or she deserves the honor this legislation would afford them. On Flag Day, I am pleased to join Congressman Larson in his effort to provide our police, firefighters and EMTs an honor equal to the risks they take, day in and day out, to keep our towns safe." "As a former first responder, I have met countless men and women willing to put their own comfort and safety on the line to ensure the well-being of others. All too often, we never get the chance to thank them for this sacrifice," said Congressman Himes. "This bill will recognize first responders for the difficult, dangerous, and often thankless job they perform and ensure we are honoring the memory of those who have fallen in the line of duty." While today Governors are allowed to order the flag to be flown at half-staff for members of the Armed Forces and present or former government officials, there is no language specific to first responders in the current flag code. Larson originally introduced the 'Honoring Hometown Heroes Act' in the 112th Congress after Windsor resident and Hartford firefighter Jim McLoughlin petitioned Congressman Larson to make a change to the U.S. Code, Title 4 which regulates the use of the American Flag. McLoughlin is the Founder of the National Honor Guard Commanders Association. ###
06.13.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passage of an amendment introduced by Reps. James McGovern (D-MA), Walter Jones (R-NC) and Adam Smith (D-WA) to ensure President Barack Obama completes the transition to Afghan control of combat operations by the end of 2013 and of all military and security operations by the end of 2014: "The withdrawal of all our service members from Afghanistan is long overdue. With the War in Iraq closed and over twelve years since the beginning of the war in Afghanistan, our troops deserve to come home. While it is my hope that we are able to bring all our brave men and women home from Afghanistan faster than 2014, Congress should be given its constitutional role in authorizing any continued or further operations. I applaud Representatives McGovern, Jones and Smith for offering this amendment and remain committed to ending the war in Afghanistan." The amendment also calls for a faster withdrawal if possible as well as Congressional approval if the President determines continued deployment is necessary for training and special operations. ###
06.13.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the passage of an amendment to require TRICARE, the military healthcare program, to cover behavioral health treatment, including applied behavior analysis for military children with developmental disabilities. The amendment, authored by Congressman Larson and co-sponsored by Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL), comes as a result of a meeting at an Autism Speaks forum at the home of Tim Shea of West Hartford with Manchester resident Rachel Kenyon. Wife of Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon, Rachel made her case and that of all military families who have dealt with difficulties with TRICARE, which currently limits access to behavioral health treatment. "Our military families have waited too long for a permanent solution to the problems accessing behavioral health treatment under TRICARE. It's hard enough being on the battlefield away from home to have the extra burden of worrying about your kids care," said Larson. "The sacrifices of these families, like Rachel and Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon, deserve our support to ensure their children are able to access care and treatment proven to help in their development. Today, with the passage of this amendment, we are one step to closer to providing that access to appropriate levels of treatment." "I commend Congressman Rooney for joining me in offering this amendment and will continue to fight for families like the Kenyons so that all military children have the opportunity to reach their highest potential by receiving the right treatments, at the right time," Larson continued. "I also want to thank Chairman McKeon, Ranking Member Smith and Representatives Joe Courtney, Walter Jones and Mike Doyle for their support moving this issue forward." "Families across the country – including those of my two nephews – face incredible challenges in raising children with autism. For our military families, those challenges can be particularly daunting," Rooney said. "Our common sense amendment helps ensure that the children of our troops and military retirees have access to the health care services they need." Larson has repeatedly called on Congress to institute a permanent fix to TRICARE for military children. Previously, Larson introduced the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288) in the 112th Congress. That bipartisan bill, which would have required permanent coverage under TRICARE basic of ABA treatments, passed both the House and Senate as an amendment to the National Defense Authorization ACT (NDAA) of 2013. In a limited victory for military families, the conference report for the NDAA created a one-year-pilot program allowing military children with autism to receive greater access to ABA under TRICARE. Today's amendment would institute a permanent solution for military children with developmental disabilities. Applied behavior analysis (ABA) is proven to greatly help children with developmental disabilities, particularly those who have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis. Today, access to ABA is limited by an annual dollar cap on coverage and is not adequately available to children of military retirees with TRICARE coverage. ###
06.04.2013	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), a Senior Member of the House Ways and Means Committee, joined C-SPAN's Washington Journal prior to today's hearing on Organizations Targeted by the Internal Revenue Service. During the interview, Larson answered questions on the IRS hearing, financial services, healthcare and tax reform. Follow the link to watch the full interview. ---WATCH VIDEO HERE--- Excerpted Remarks: "No matter who they targeted, it was wrong, it's egregious. I was happy that we moved swiftly to make sure that there was a public hearing on this. I commend both David Camp and Sandy Levin for joining in a nonpartisan way and saying, no matter who is controlling the IRS, it is totally inappropriate and egregious that you would target people for their political beliefs. Whether they're progressives or whether they're Tea Party, it is flat out wrong. "So I think that this can be constructive, there's already been movement that's taken place. Mr. Miller has stepped down, Ms. Lerner is going to be stepping down. That was a good move, I thought, again – Sandy Levin taking the lead on that in the Ways and Means Committee. Yet, like all issues, I believe that this deserves the thorough oversight of the United States Congress. If nothing less, the public right now – which holds Congress in not the highest of esteem – needs to be assured that we're going to continue to focus on the public trust. And then, above all else, what we hope, what I hope we do is we're able to pivot to something that the public is truly yearning for and that's to get back to work... "...What we fear is that we don't want this to turn into some kind of partisan witch hunt. And, we should say at the outset, while Congress is not popular, neither is the IRS for that matter, and yet there are so many incredible civil servants who work on behalf of the IRS and other federal agencies. And this shouldn't be about demeaning everybody, but where there is inappropriate action, and clearly this was, we ought to take swift action and correct the problem, and I think that that's a process that's already underway. "It's heartening to see that Congress is doing this in a nonpartisan basis. Could we now shift to job creation and dealing with our healthcare crisis, both of which can offer other opportunities for us to work together in a nonpartisan fashion? When I go home, that's what people keep on saying to me: 'When are you guys going to get together and put us back to work?', that's what they say at Augie and Ray's anyway." ###
05.24.2013	Washington - Thursday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) in introducing the "LNG Excise Tax Equalization Act of 2013", a bill which would make the excise tax on Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) and diesel comparable on an energy-equivalent basis. Currently, the federal excise tax on LNG and diesel is set at 24.3 cents per gallon. Because it takes 1.7 gallons of LNG to produce the same amount of energy as a gallon of diesel fuel, LNG is taxed 70 percent higher than diesel. The bill would level the playing field by applying the excise tax to LNG and diesel based on the amount of energy each produces, which is how it is applied to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and gasoline. "Natural gas is an affordable and American energy source that is an essential part of ending our dependency on foreign oil," said Congressman Larson. "Companies are already beginning to make the switch towards natural gas vehicles and this bill will knock down a significant barrier preventing companies from further harnessing this domestic energy source. By leveling the playing field for LNG trucks, we are taking an easy step towards utilizing clean, affordable and American energy." "This bill provides a fair, market centered solution to fix the tax disparity between diesel and LNG," said Thornberry. "I think this change will encourage more private sector investment in LNG infrastructure and production, and that will be a real positive effect on our economy." To better understand the problem with the current excise tax, consider a diesel truck traveling 100,000 miles per year at 5 miles per gallon consumes 20,000 gallons of diesel fuel. An identical LNG truck would require 34,000 gallons of LNG to travel the same distance. While the LNG truck uses a cleaner, domestic form of fuel, it would pay an additional $3,402 per year in taxes for using LNG. A Senate companion bill is expected to soon be introduced by Senators Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Richard Burr (R-NC). The bills have received public support from Natural Gas Vehicles for America, American Gas Association, America's Natural Gas Alliance, AGL Resources, Clean Energy Fuels, UPS, and others. ###
05.23.2013	Washington – In order to provide additional assistance to families and businesses struggling to rebuild in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, U.S. Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-09) lead a bipartisan coalition including Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Michael Grimm (R-NY), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Charles Rangel (D-NY), Tom Reed (R-NY) and Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) in introducing legislation to provide tax relief to the victims of the devastating storm that caused widespread destruction throughout the Northeast. The Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2013, modeled after a similar bill passed into law in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, is aimed at providing tax relief for victims of Hurricane Sandy in areas designated as Federal Disaster Areas by the President. "While the Sandy aid we fought so hard for is finally getting to the communities that desperately need it, we know it's not going to be enough to help families and businesses fully recover," said Rep. Pascrell, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "This legislation will go a long way towards filling this gap by providing immediate tax relief to those impacted by Sandy's devastation. Similar tax relief has been passed following some of our country's worst natural disasters, and Sandy victims deserve nothing less than the same treatment. Despite stepping up to the plate when other regions of the country have been hit by natural disasters, the Northeast was left waiting more than three months for federal aid following Sandy. We simply can't allow this double standard to continue to hamper recovery efforts." "The damage caused by Hurricane Sandy will leave a lasting impact on communities in Connecticut and across the East Coast," said Rep. Larson, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "Congress has an obligation to help these Americans, who have been forced to deal with the economic strain of a devastating natural disaster. I am proud of the bipartisan efforts of my colleagues who understand that providing relief is not about politics or ideology, rather it is our responsibility to respond to Americans in need. I urge Congress to take up this legislation and help our cities, towns and businesses recover." "Seven months after Hurricane Sandy, New Jersey residents and business are continuing the hard work of recovery," Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen said. "This legislation gives families the ability to help themselves by targeting tax relief where it's most needed." "While the physical signs of Sandy's destruction are being repaired and communities are put back together, there remains a significant need to address the unseen negative impact on families and businesses. This bipartisan legislation will ensure equity of treatment to our constituents suffering from a major storm and a vital opportunity to finally put Sandy behind them," said Rep. Frank LoBiondo. "We fought hard for aid following Hurricane Sandy so that victims would get the help needed to rebuild their communities," said Rep. Tom Reed, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "Today's bill is a way to follow through on our commitment to make sure that aid isn't delayed. As one of the costliest natural disasters in the history of our country, Hurricane Sandy left a path of destruction millions of Americans are still trying to recover from. With this bill, we can continue and enhance those rebuilding efforts." "The reality is hundreds of thousands of families and businesses affected by Hurricane Sandy are exactly that – still affected. This legislation will help provide assistance and relief as the daunting challenge of rebuilding, restarting and re-establishing lives and livelihoods continues," said Rep. Joe Crowley, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "The fundamental goal of government is to protect and help our citizens in need. Just as Congress has done in the wake of other natural disasters, it is critical that we provide this much-needed tax relief as soon as possible." "One of the greatest attributes of our nation is the resiliency of the people in devastated communities and the shared understanding that the whole country is there to lift them up in their time of need," said Rep. Charles B. Rangel, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. "The damage and suffering caused by Hurricane Sandy is not merely felt by those affected in the East Coast, but by all of America. I'm proud to have worked on the Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2013 with my Colleagues because it is an American solution to an American problem. This bipartisan bill is based on tax relief that has been provided in the aftermath all major disasters across the country. We cannot wait. It should be enacted as soon as possible." "From hurricanes and tornadoes to wildfires and floods, Americans come together in the face of disaster," said Rep. Carolyn McCarthy. "We're asking our colleagues in Congress to help the millions of people affected by Sandy through this commonsense and fair tax relief, because it's the right thing to do and helping each other is who we are as Americans." "As federal aid begins to flow into the hands of those struggling to recover from Sandy, it will never fully cover the cost of the storm," said Rep. Grimm. "By pairing aid with tax relief, we can maximize assistance to our struggling families and businesses, and further ease the burden of recovery. Congress has a long history of providing tax relief in the aftermath of natural disasters, and the people of New York and New Jersey deserve the same opportunity." The legislation will complement the federal government's relief and recovery efforts by providing additional tax relief to businesses, individuals and municipalities affected by Hurricane Sandy, including: Individual Assistance: Waiver of Adjusted Gross Income limitation for theft/loss deduction, so individuals can deduct the cost of uninsured losses. Increased Charitable Contribution Limits: The legislation increases charitable deduction limits of taxpayers with respect to cash contributions to certain tax exempt organizations made for the purpose of relief efforts related to Hurricane Sandy. Look-back Provision for Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit, to allow a family in the affected region to opt to use their previous year's earnings to calculate their Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit. Allow taxpayers whose principal place of residence is in the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Area and who suffered a loss from Hurricane Sandy, to take distributions from retirement savings accounts with no tax penalty, provided such amount is repaid within three years. Business Assistance: Allowing businesses to expense the cost of disaster recovery. Allowing businesses to use Net Operating Loss to recover past tax payments or reduce future tax payments, if they are operating with no tax liability during the prescribed period. Increase in new markets tax credit for investments in community development entities serving Hurricane Sandy disaster areas. Allowing public utilities to reduce their tax liability when rebuilding or replacing assets damaged in the storm. Work Opportunity Tax Credits for displaced workers. Public and Municipal Assistance: A new state-by-state private activity bond allocation for Sandy-affected areas to rebuild docks and wharfs, commuting facilities, certain housing, water, sewage, and solid waste infrastructure, and facilities used to provide electric energy or gas. Housing Assistance: Increased allocation of the Low Income Housing Tax Credit for declared disaster areas. Waiver of certain mortgage revenue bond requirements, easing access to capital. ###
05.21.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called on Congress to send relief to the people of Oklahoma before they break for recess. "As a member from Connecticut, a state that recently endured the destruction of a hurricane, the tragedy of the slaughter of innocents in Newtown and, most recently, a train wreck this past weekend, we know that tragedy and natural disaster can befall any part of the country at any time. "Our hearts go out to Oklahoma and to Representative Tom Cole, whose district has been devastated by this latest catastrophe. I recall how Tom Cole stood tall and voted for providing direct relief for Hurricane Sandy when it was not popular within his own Conference. He did what Americans do – rise to the aid of their fellow citizens. "As the search and rescue efforts valiantly continue, let us not just offer our prayers, as needed and as welcome as they are; let us act as united citizens and send with all due speed the relief that the people of Oklahoma so desperately need. "Disasters and tragedy should never be about ideology, politics or geographic locale; when Americans are in need of help, the Congress needs to respond. That is who we are as a people; that's what makes us a more perfect union. Any American befallen by tragedy or natural disaster needs the assistance of its nation and fellow Americans. "Let us act now before we leave this week on a long recess. Oklahoma citizens struck by this disaster do not have the luxury to wait. Let us put politics and ideology aside and act on behalf of the American people." ###
05.16.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement on the introduction of the Election Assistance Commission Improvements Act of 2013 by Rep. Robert Brady, Ranking Member and other Democratic members of the Committee on House Administration: "Far too many voters dealt with inexcusable issues and delays when trying to cast a ballot in our most recent elections," said Congressman Larson. "This act empowers all Americans to exercise their right to vote, reduces costs and increases transparency in our electoral system. I applaud Ranking Member Brady and other Democratic members of the Committee on House Administration for introducing this legislation and look forward to continuing my work to improve our electoral process." The Election Assistance Commission Improvements Act of 2013 allows the EAC to continue their work protecting every American's right to vote and improves the ability of commissioners to track electoral issues. In addition, the act also aims to improve access to polling places for disabled voters and increases transparency by preventing manufacturers from paying for the audits of their own machines. ###
05.16.2013	Hartford, CT -- U.S. Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), U.S. Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and U.S. Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-05) today announced the award of a $200,000 U.S. Economic Development Administration grant to evaluate flooding of the Pequabuck River and its economic impact on Bristol, Plainville and Plymouth. Flooding from the Pequabuck River during Hurricane Irene severely damaged homes and businesses in Bristol, Plainville and Plymouth. Many businesses located along the river were forced to close, including some that were unable to reopen and were forced to lay off employees. With the constant threat of recurring flooding, businesses have been fearful about rebuilding along the river. The Bristol-Plainville-Plymouth Pequabuck River Flooding Study will provide a road map for reducing damage to homes and businesses from river flooding while saving future federal disaster relief dollars. "The studies made possible by this grant will help Bristol and surrounding towns develop effective flood mitigation projects within the flood plain," said Larson. "Following Hurricane Irene I joined Mayor Ward to witness first-hand the devastation caused by flooding to sites surrounding the Pequabuck River. In the wake of unprecedented severe weather in New England, it is crucial that we continue to work towards reducing the damaging effects of future natural disasters that hurt our local and state economies." "With the constant threat of flooding from the Pequabuck River, Bristol, Plainville and Plymouth businesses have been rightfully fearful about rebuilding and investing along the water. This study is an important first step toward identifying necessary flood mitigation measures to ensure this beautiful river can once again serve as a job creation and economic development driver for the area. As severe weather events such as Irene become more and more common, I will continue to advocate for additional funding for flood mitigation measures throughout the state to ensure Connecticut business and communities are prepared for this new normal," Blumenthal said. "Families and businesses in Plainville, Bristol, and Plymouth have seen more than their share of natural disasters in recent years," said Murphy. "This funding will help those communities develop flood mitigation programs to help prevent future disruptions of people's daily lives and business, and ensure more economic stability in the area. I'm proud to support it." "This is an important investment for long-term economic development in Plainville, Plymouth, and Bristol. For residents who have been rightfully fearful about rebuilding along the river and small business owners who are struggling to create jobs in the face of repeated disaster, we must take this critical first step and identify the best measures to alleviate the risks of flooding. I will continue to work with my colleagues in our delegation and local officials to ensure our communities receive the support they need to move forward and to minimize the costs of future disasters," said Esty. "This regional effort is the first step in addressing the issue of flooding on the Pequabuck River. The study will identify the potential solution to the increase flooding events that are impacting our businesses and residents as well. We thank the delegation for working with Plainville, Plymouth and Bristol and securing the funds for the study," said Plainville Town Manager Robert Lee. "This award is monumental in addressing the regional flooding problems of Bristol, Plymouth and Plainville as a result of the devastating issues associated with the Pequabuck River. This first step in recognizing the disastrous economic impact upon our communities will provide for an invaluable means of correcting and preventing future flooding disasters," said Bristol Mayor Art Ward. ###
05.15.2013	Washington – Today, in honor of National Peace Officers Memorial Day, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced he will reintroduce legislation in the 113th Congress to allow the U.S. flag to be flown at half-staff following the death of a first responder in the line of duty. Current law allows for the flag to be flown at half-staff for any member of the Armed Forces and present or former government officials. "In the last six months alone our first responders have shown unparalleled bravery and heroism protecting our communities," said Congressman Larson. "Far too often these men and women make the ultimate sacrifice to keep each of us safe. As a nation we owe it to these heroes and their families to honor that sacrifice. That's why I will reintroduce the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act this Congress so that Connecticut and every state has the ability to fly the flag at half-staff for those first responders we have lost." The Honoring Hometown Heroes Act was originally inspired by Jim McLoughlin of Windsor, a Hartford firefighter and Founder of the National Honor Guard Commanders Association. Mr. McLoughlin previously petitioned Congressman Larson to seek a change to the U.S. Code, Title 4, regulating the use of the American flag. The Act, originally introduced by Larson in the 112th Congress, would amend the Flag Code to permit the Governor of a state or territory to order the American flag to be lowered to half-staff in the event that a first responder from that state dies while in the line of duty. Each year May 15th marks National Peace Officers Memorial Day during the annual National Police Week. Congress established National Peace Officers Memorial Day in 1962 to honor federal, state, and municipal officers who have been killed or disabled in the line of duty. ###
05.10.2013	Hartford, CT - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Julia Tashjian, former Connecticut Secretary of State: "Julia Tashjian was a beloved colleague and a remarkable woman with an incredible sense of humor and great political savvy. I am both shocked and saddened and will miss her dearly. An innovator as Secretary of State, Julia truly understood the value of community engagement. Her passion and commitment to public service was an inspiration to many, and today I offer my thoughts and prayers to her family and friends during this time." ###
05.09.2013	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation issued the following statement today regarding the announcement by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that Connecticut community health centers will receive $1.55 million in federal funding to expand their efforts and provide assistance to uninsured individuals seeking to enroll in affordable health insurance programs: "We applaud news from the Department of Health and Human Services today that thirteen centers across Connecticut serving more than 300,000 individuals will be eligible for over $1.5 million in federal funds to hire new staff, train existing staff, conduct community outreach, and to help residents understand and enroll in affordable health insurance programs. This is yet another example of the Affordable Care Act providing critical services to those in need. "Many of the community health centers' patients are the working poor who do not qualify for Medicaid and cannot afford health insurance – people who would greatly benefit from the new affordable health insurance program. We will continue to support their efforts and ensure that all families -- regardless of income -- have timely access to high quality, affordable care. That includes supporting community outreach and one-on-one counseling to help connect uninsured individuals to affordable health insurance programs." ###
05.09.2013	Hartford, CT - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced $1 million in Brownfields Cleanup grants for various sites in Hartford and East Hartford, including $460,000 for hazardous substance cleanup and $540,000 for petroleum cleanup. "The economic and environmental benefits of revitalizing former industrial areas, gas stations and other brownfields sites to our municipalities can often go unrealized due to the high costs of cleanup," said Congressman Larson. "With this funding, Goodwin College and the City of Hartford can further their efforts to develop these sites while helping to eliminate hazardous substances from our environment." Goodwin College, Inc. is receiving $60,000 for hazardous substance cleanup at their 361-363 Main Street property in East Hartford, the home of a restaurant from 1936 to 1989 and a gas station from 1949 to 1968. Goodwin will also receive $340,000 for petroleum cleanup at both the 361-363 Main Street property and their 365-367 Main Street property in East Hartford, a car repair facility and gas station from 1950 to 1998 and auto repair facility until 2012. The City of Hartford will receive $400,000 for hazardous substance cleanup at two brownfields sites, including the former home of the Philbrick, Booth, Spencer factory and foundry at 393 Homestead Avenue and a former paint and oil store at 70 Edwards Avenue. Hartford will also receive $200,000 for petroleum cleanup at the Downtown North Project Area at 40 Chapel Street. ###
05.09.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to oppose the Pay China First Act. Remarks as prepared for delivery: "I rise today to oppose the Pay China First Act, and I do this with a heavy heart because I know of a number of talented individuals that we have on this committee and the process that we've been through in working together. "It astounds me that somehow the ideological tail of the tea party wags the whole Republican effort in this area, and that the ideological reach of the Tea Party overrides the certainty that we should be bringing to the American people. "Instead we're playing hostage politics again; holding up the American people, creating the uncertainty we don't need in this kind of climate instead of demonstrating that we can sit down and work together. "I get the politics, I understand how you have to accede to a group that continues to take us to the precipice and then pull back. The American people are through with it. Let's sit down, deal with this and then move on. Create the certainty that will create the jobs. "Let's not find ourselves in a situation that becomes almost an oxymoron, where we're paying China first at the expense of Americans when there is no good reason why we should be dealing with this issue other than the hostage politics it creates in dealing with an ideological minority driving the other side." ###
05.09.2013	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), and Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.) announced today the award of a Fire Prevention and Safety Grant to provide a comprehensive risk assessment for the Bristol Fire Department. The grant program is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The $18,000 grant will allow the Bristol Fire Department to identify vulnerable local populations and structures, enabling the City to target training and planning to critical areas. "In Bristol and across Connecticut our first responders sacrifice their safety to shield our neighborhoods from fire related hazards," said Larson. "This grant will help better determine risk throughout the City of Bristol, improving their ability to effectively train our firefighters. I'm pleased to see this funding go to Bristol and know it will be used to help our brave men and woman in uniform prepare for the dangers they face protecting our communities." "This grant will help provide life-saving information to the Bristol Fire Department, enabling first responders to receive focused training to better assist the City's most vulnerable populations and areas. Seconds can make all the difference when responding to an emergency, and advance training and planning are vital. Connecticut firefighters deserve the best preparation, equipment and training available, and I am pleased that local departments across the state like Bristol have received the federal dollars to do so," Blumenthal said. "Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line to protect our communities, and few things are more important than helping them do their jobs safely," said Murphy. "This grant will help fund the Bristol Fire Department's work to identify where the risks are and what we can do to prevent future fire related tragedies. My thanks goes to FEMA and the U.S. Fire Administration for recognizing this need and continuing to fight for these heroes as they fight for us." "The City of Bristol is fortunate to be awarded these financial resources from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) Program. We are assured that this grant will be used to provide the most pertinent and accurate data to our department. It will add to our record of safety and fire prevention in the City of Bristol," said Bristol Mayor Art Ward. "The risk assessment will establish years of valuable firefighter training opportunities, equipment purchases and fire department public educational campaigns to address emergency risks," said Bristol Fire Chief Jon Pose. This is the 17th federal firefighting grant awarded in Connecticut in Fiscal Year 2013. Middletown received $1.14 million to hire eight additional firefighters and Waterbury received $2.9 million to hire new fire recruits through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) and Assistance to Firefighters grant programs administered by FEMA. East Woodstock, Killingly, Plainfield, Willington, Seymour, Middletown, East Hartford, Shelton, Norwalk, Torrington, Southington and Waterbury also received grants to support operations and safety measures. ###
05.08.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional delegation today issued a statement applauding the announcement that Connecticut will receive over $6 million in emergency disaster relief funds from the U.S. Department of the Interior to repair and rebuild parks, public lands and refuges damaged by Superstorm Sandy. Connecticut will also receive a share of $12.7 million in additional funds that will aid restoration projects in multiple states impacted by Sandy. Funds include $5 million for the preservation and restoration of historic properties damaged during the storm, as well as over $1 million to remove debris and restore safe public access to the McKinney National Wildlife Refuge. "These Department of Interior funds will go a long way towards restoring and repairing vital public parks and sites damaged by Superstorm Sandy. Our public parks and historic sites are treasures that should be restored and protected from future damage so that generations to come can continue to enjoy them. As storms like Sandy become more frequent, we will continue to advocate for additional funds to ensure that communities, businesses and families have the aid they need to not only recover from disasters like Sandy, but to rebuild in ways that make future damage less likely," the delegation stated. ###
05.07.2013	Washington – The Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) released its report on the Ways and Means Committee Tax Reform Working Groups. Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Adrian Smith (R-NE), leaders of the Tax Reform Working Group on Financial Services, released the following statements: "I would like to commend Chairman Camp and Ranking Member Levin for their efforts in spearheading this bipartisan process," said Congressman Larson. "This report is a first step towards reforming our tax code. I hope to continue working with my counterpart Congressman Smith as well as the rest of my colleagues on the Committee to come up with a bipartisan, comprehensive solution that can be voted on in regular order." "This report is another positive step forward for our efforts to complete comprehensive tax reform," said Congressman Smith. "I thank the Joint Committee on Taxation for compiling the report, and the many stakeholders and citizens who shared their thoughts and ideas throughout the process. I look forward to continuing to work with Congressman Larson and other members of the committee to simplify our out-dated and burdensome tax code and encourage economic growth." ###
05.06.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed the Marketplace Fairness Act, aimed at allowing Connecticut and other states to collect sales tax from out of state online retailers: "Today the Senate showed its support for small business in our nation. The Senate passage of the Marketplace Fairness Act shows both sides of the aisle can agree that equality among our businesses is crucial in our current recovery. This act would also strengthen the ability of states like Connecticut to collect revenue it should already be receiving. The House should begin work on this important legislation to ensure that all our businesses are on an even playing field." ###
04.30.2013	Wethersfield, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented World War II veteran Joseph Luszczak of Wethersfield with military medals he earned serving our nation. Mr. Joseph Luszczak, 96, entered the service in 1943 serving in 'B' Company, 13th Infantry Regiment, 8th Infantry Division. During his time in the U.S. Army Mr. Luszczak held several different military occupations including Supply NCO, Rifleman and Squad Leader. "Mr. Joseph Luszczak courageously served our nation in World War II, holding several different military occupations and earning the rank of Sergeant before the time of his separation," said Congressman Larson. "Today Mr. Luszczak received medals he earned nearly 70 years ago fighting against tyranny. My generation and each generation since will always be grateful for the sacrifices of our troops and their families during World War II, who put their lives and livelihoods on the line in the name of freedom everywhere." For his service in the U.S. Army, Mr. Luszczak was presented with the following medals: Bronze Star Medal Combat Infantry Badge 1st Award Sharpshooter Badge with Carbine Bar Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 2 Bronze Service Stars World War II Victory Medal Honorable Service Lapel Button 2 Overseas Service Bars ###
04.24.2013	Click here for a Timeline of Congressman Larson's Efforts on Coltsville Washingto) – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Senator Chris Murphy applauded the National Park Service for their continued support of establishing Coltsville as a National Park. This week Deputy Director of the National Park Service Peggy O'Dell testified at a Senate National Parks Subcommittee hearing in support of S. 615, to establish Coltsville National Historical Park in the State of Connecticut. In her testimony she noted the progress made over the last two years as well as the significant promise for the future of Coltsville. "I am very pleased that the National Park Service has reaffirmed their commitment to Coltsville's National Park designation," said Larson. "There steady support over the last three years as well as the support of our state and local officials is a testament to the value and importance of preserving the history of Coltsville. "Widely known as one of the catalysts of the industrial revolution, Coltsville was home to a community centered around manufacturing," Larson continued. "Under the direction of Elizabeth Colt, the first woman to lead a top five manufacturing company, Coltsville's apprenticeship program lead to the development of the typewriter, automobile and eventually the airplane engine. Manufacturing is part of our DNA, and the story of Coltsville continues to be deeply rooted in our history." "I was pleased to hear that the National Park Service supports the enactment of S. 615, legislation that would help make possible the designation of Coltsville National Historical Park in Hartford, Conn," said Blumenthal. "The Coltsville complex is a historic treasure, enshrining Colt's powerful role in advancing the industrial revolution and manufacturing in Connecticut and nationwide. The Coltsville National Historical Park Act will help preserve an important piece of our state's history and help ensure that generations to come have the opportunity to visit and learn about this historic landmark." "There isn't a project in Hartford that has more economic potential for the city than Coltsville. It could be a game changer for the city of Hartford, and I'm thrilled that the National Park Service recognizes the progress the project has made in recent years," said Murphy. "Coltsville's rich history and contributions to our state's economy and manufacturing sector should be honored and recognized for generations to come. Designating this site as a National Park will help boost economic development and tourism in the region, and will help educate visitors from across the country about Connecticut's manufacturing history." The Coltsville National Historical Park Act would give authority to establish a National Park at Coltsville to the Secretary of the Interior once certain criteria is met. During a previous visit to Hartford, Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar pledged his support for a National Park at Coltsville. Coltsville was named a National Historic Landmark in 2008. Samuel Colt established the Colt Patent Firearms Manufacturing Company in 1855. His wife Elizabeth would run and operate the site for nearly 40 years after his passing, helping to develop a fully integrated industrial district with manufacturing facilities, worker housing and community amenities such as social and religious buildings. A center of innovation and entrepreneurship, Coltsville had a major impact on the state and national economy for decades. ###
04.23.2013	(Washington) – Today Congressman John B. Larson announced that the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art has been awarded a $300,000 competitive grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) to support the museum's traveling exhibition, Coney Island: Visions of an American Dreamland, 1861–2008. The grant will fund exhibition costs, including a fully illustrated scholarly catalogue co-published with Yale University Press, as well as associated educational programming for museum visitors. "Whether they are helping facilitate the first congressional arts competition or sharing their work across the country, the Wadsworth Atheneum is nationally recognized for their efforts to support the arts," said Congressman Larson. "I am pleased to see the Wadsworth Atheneum receive this funding and congratulate everyone involved in making this competitive grant a reality." "All of us at the Wadsworth Atheneum are grateful to the NEH for this crucial and most generous support", said Robin Jaffee Frank, Chief Curator and Krieble Curator of American Paintings and Sculpture at the Wadsworth Atheneum, and exhibition curator. "The extraordinary works of art in this exhibition will bring to life the excitement of Coney Island, which occupies not only a strip of sand in Brooklyn, but also a singular place in the American imagination." ###
04.23.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement on the passing of Bob Edgar, President and CEO of Common Cause: "From his tenure in the House to his most recent work at Common Cause, Bob demonstrated the ability and motivation to change the nation for the betterment of the people. His drive to reform our political landscape in the interest of every American will be missed by all who knew him. I am saddened by the news of his passing, and offer my thoughts and prayers to his family during this difficult time." ###
04.22.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) today hailed the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL)'s decision to end the Job Corps enrollment freeze. The three have worked for this decision for months, most recently sending a letter to DOL imploring them to use their authority to transfer addition funds to the Job Corps program and take other steps to end the freeze. "Today's announcement is welcome news for the hundreds of youth who will benefit from our Job Corps Centers," said Larson. "The Hartford Job Corps Academy has for years shown the value in the training they provide, and now can continue strengthening our communities by helping youth gain meaningful employment." "This is a big win for the students, families, and communities in Connecticut and across the country who rely on the Job Corps program," said Murphy. "Job Corps centers are critical in this tough economy, helping young people secure employment by providing them with the tools they need to succeed. The Job Corps enrollment freeze has hurt some of the most vulnerable kids in Connecticut. As a member of the committee that oversees Job Corps, I've been pushing for months to end this damaging enrollment freeze, and I'm proud that our work has made a difference and that Job Corps enrollment can resume." "More young people will once again be able to take advantage of the great services at the New Haven Job Corps center, as it will be able to help 157 students thank to the end of this misguided freeze," said DeLauro. "The freeze not only prevented the centers from providing additional young people with vital job training opportunities they need, but it also had a direct impact on the livelihoods of current students and the dedicated staff. I was proud to secure extra funding for the program so the great centers in New Haven and Hartford can support more students this year. I will continue to fight to ensure they can increase the number of students served." Started in 1964, Job Corps is an education and training program that helps young people learn a career, earn a high school diploma or GED, and find and keep a good job. For eligible young people at least 16 years of age that qualify as low income, Job Corps provides the all-around skills needed to succeed in a career and in life. ###
04.17.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) took to the floor of the United States House of Representatives to call for a vote on legislation expanding background checks to all commercial gun sales. While the majority party in the House remains unwilling to take up any legislation to address gun violence prevention, Congressman Larson plans on filing a bill identical to the bi-partisan Manchin-Toomey background checks proposal, and to subsequently file a discharge petition to bring it to the floor if the House continues not to act. "We need to vote in the United States Congress," said Congressman Larson. "If these young children had the courage to go after their assailant, if the teacher stepped in the way to protect, does Congress have the will and the courage to stand up and merely do what it was elected to do – cast a vote in both chambers, cast a vote on behalf of the American people, cast a vote on behalf of these children, on behalf of these parents who have come here to besiege the United States Congress to do its responsibility, to do what we take the oath of office for." "Ninety-two percent of the American people believe that we need universal background checks," Larson continued. "We have to make sure that our bodies, both the Senate and the House, take up this legislation in the aftermath of yet another tragedy on Patriot's Day. The most patriotic thing we can do is vote." Full Transcript of Congressman Larson's speech below: Thank you Mr. Speaker. Our hearts as well go out to the victims and the families of those who were killed and seriously wounded in Boston on Patriot's Day. This has been a very difficult time for our country. At that event in Boston, where families from Newtown Connecticut, invited to celebrate Patriot's Day in Boston, the Red Sox play in the morning, the marathon takes place, families gather, and again America faces another tragedy. Last week family members from Newtown came to the hill to lobby Congress, to ask Congress what the President of the United States has asked of us both in the State of the Union and in his two trips up to Connecticut. The President has said is, however you feel about the issue of gun violence, however you feel about the second amendment, we deserve a vote both in the other body in the Senate and here on the floor of the House of Representatives. A vote, not only for the twenty children and six teachers and administrators who died in that tragedy on December 14th but for people in Tucson and Aurora and on virtually every street in cities all across America where we have seen this needless and senseless violence take place. Patriot's Day, another act of violence. Strides are being made in the United States Senate, compromise is being offered on something that Ninety-two percent of the American people agree with, universal background checks. Universal background checks to keep guns out of the hands of terrorists. The United States of America is currently mocked by Adam Gadahn, an American al Qaeda on the FBI's Most Wanted list, who taunts America and says this, and you can see it on BuzzFeed, America is absolutely awash with easily attainable firearms, large capacity clips. You can get them even without any identification. This from the most wanted on the FBI list. We need to vote in the United States Congress. If these young children had the courage to go after their assailant, if the teacher stepped in the way to protect, does Congress have the will and the courage to stand up and merely do what was elected to do - cast a vote in both chambers, cast a vote on behalf of the American people, cast a vote on behalf of these children, on behalf of these parents who have come here to besiege the United States Congress only to do its responsibility, to do what we take the oath of office for. Ninety-two percent of the American people believe that we need universal background checks. We have to make sure that our bodies, both the Senate and the House, take up this legislation in the aftermath of yet another tragedy on Patriot's Day. The most patriotic thing we can do is vote. ###
04.17.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement after the U.S. Senate rejected a bipartisan proposal expanding background checks to all commercial gun sales: "I commend Joe Manchin and Pat Toomey for coming up with a rational approach that ninety-two percent of Americans all agree with, and the need for universal background checks as it relates to our gun laws. The bill was taken up today in the Senate and the vote was 54-46. Every fifth grader in America is astounded that that bill was defeated. Only in the United States Senate, the other body, could that take place - that a vote of 54-46 would not pass. "And so, disheartening as it is, and while we are still reeling from events that have taken place in Boston on Patriot's Day, children all across America cannot be reassured by their parents that they are any safer tonight. And while the NRA may sleep well this evening, Americans remain confounded that a majority of Senators voting for common-sense background checks are defeated by the machinations of Senate rules. "The parents and families of Newtown who have lobbied so hard remain our inspiration. There is another chamber and another opportunity for the House of Representatives to speak its will on the violence that has been perpetrated across this country. If these young children had the courage to go after their assailant, if the teacher stepped in the way to protect them, then the House must show the same courage. But the American people must engage them and insist on a vote. To do otherwise is to be complicit." ###
04.15.2013	Hartford, CT -- Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Senator Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), and Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) announced today the awards of three federal fire Operations and Safety (OP &S) Grants through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant programs administered by FEMA. These grants will help improve the safety and operations of firefighters and first responders in Seymour, Middletown and East Hartford. The Seymour Ambulance Association will receive $61,085 to upgrade radios used to communicate between emergency response vehicles and dispatchers. Radios currently in use are out of date and not up to code with state and FCC requirements. "Firefighters deserve the right tools when protecting our families and communities from fire related hazards," said Congressman Larson. "I am very pleased to see funding go to the East Hartford Fire Department for communications equipment upgrades. These needed improvements will help ensure the safety of our neighbors and our brave first responders while also improving their ability to coordinate with nearby departments. I am also pleased to see the Westfield Fire District receive funding for the addition of thermal imaging cameras, crucial for assessing danger and locating trapped or injured individuals. Each of these competitive grants will help strengthen department operations in the first district and above all help keep our towns and first responders safe." "We were very pleased to receive the grant funds. It will facilitate communication between EMTs and hospitals and improve service for our residents. I would like to thank the delegation and all those who helped secure this grant," said Seymour First Selectman Kurt Miller. The Westfield Fire District in Middletown will receive $12,341 to purchase two thermal imaging cameras. The new equipment will replace old and outdated equipment currently in use. The cameras will allow firefighters to see inside burning buildings, around walls and through other infrastructure. The cameras can be used to detect heat sources, fires, and occupants in a burning building, and can be used to determine the temperature of a room and whether it is safe to enter. This is the second federal firefighting award for Middletown in Fiscal Year 2013. Earlier this year Middletown received $1.14 million through the SAFER Grant program to hire eight additional firefighters. "These thermal imaging cameras will assist our brave Westfield firefighters in keeping the people of their district safe without any impact to local taxpayers. It takes tremendous courage to fight fire, and it's important that our firefighters have the tools they need to do the job," said Middletown Mayor Dan Drew. The East Hartford Fire Department will receive $139,200 for radio upgrades to communicate between emergency vehicles and dispatch. As with Seymour, the radios currently in use are not up to code with state and FCC requirements. The grant will also enable East Hartford to purchase new repeaters that will improve the town's ability to communicate over multi-frequency and multi-channel receivers with other departments. "We are grateful for the support from FEMA and the delegation. This funding will allow the East Hartford Fire Department to dramatically improve its communication system. When completed, the project will significantly improve firefighter safety by improving our radio communications system. The town's fire department is a critical service used every day by our citizens and visitors. This funding will enable our firefighters to better serve the community by enhancing our radio communications system. An additional aspect of the project improves our ability to communicate with our neighboring communities. This becomes vital during large scale emergencies as well as during natural disasters and other extreme events," said East Hartford Mayor Marcia Leclerc. "These are well-deserved awards to help protect our brave first responders in Seymour, Middletown and East Hartford. Our firefighters and first responders risk their lives every day to protect ours, and they deserve the best equipment available," said Senator Blumenthal. "These grants will provide lifesaving support to help firefighters do their jobs safely and effectively in East Hartford, Middletown, and Seymour. I'll continue to fight for these heroes who put their lives on the line to protect our communities day in and day out." Murphy said. "Ensuring first responders have updated and necessary equipment is crucial to protecting not only the public, but the brave men and women who serve our communities," Congresswoman DeLauro said. "The equipment purchased with these grants will better prepare the first responders of Middletown, Seymour, and East Hartford for the dangerous and lifesaving work they so ably do." These are the ninth, tenth and eleventh federal firefighting grants awarded in Connecticut in Fiscal Year 2013. Middletown received $1.14 million to hire eight additional firefighters and Waterbury received $2.9 million to hire new fire recruits through the Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) and Assistance to Firefighters grant programs administered by FEMA. Shelton, Norwalk, Torrington, Southington and Waterbury also received grants to support operations and safety measures. ###
04.11.2013	Washington — Three members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation—U.S. Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) along with Senator Chris Murphy—today hailed the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL)'s decision to end the Job Corps enrollment freeze. The three have worked for this decision for months, most recently sending a letter to DOL imploring them to use their authority to transfer addition funds to the Job Corps program and take other steps to end the freeze. "The Department of Labor is right to end the Job Corps enrollment freeze," said Larson. "Each year hundreds of youth are able to find a job with the help of training from The Hartford Job Corps Academy, recognized nationally for their success. These centers strengthen our communities and help young Americans lift themselves out of poverty and into meaningful careers. I am glad that each center can continue to enroll new youth and look forward to seeing the Job Corps Academy continue their important work in Hartford." "The announcement that the student enrollment freeze will soon be lifted is great news for our Connecticut Job Corps centers," said DeLauro. "The freeze not only prevented the centers from providing additional young people with vital job training opportunities they need, but as I saw firsthand in New Haven it had a direct impact on the livelihoods of current students and the dedicated staff. I was proud to have fought to secure extra funding to transfer to the program and will continue to work to see that ultimately the program is put on a sustainable path and the New Haven and Hartford centers can increase the number of students they can serve." Murphy said, "As a member of the committee that oversees the Job Corps program, I've been pushing for months to end this damaging enrollment freeze, and I'm pleased to see those efforts pay off. Job Corps centers are critical in this tough economy, helping young people secure employment by providing them with the tools they need to succeed. The Job Corps enrollment freeze has hurt some of the most vulnerable kids in Connecticut. I'll keep fighting for these centers so kids in Connecticut can more easily gain the skills they need to find a job." Started in 1964, Job Corps is an education and training program that helps young people learn a career, earn a high school diploma or GED, and find and keep a good job. For eligible young people at least 16 years of age that qualify as low income, Job Corps provides the all-around skills needed to succeed in a career and in life. ###
04.09.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) congratulated Jensun Yonjan for winning the 31st Annual Congressional Arts Competition. Jensun is currently a student at Conard High School in West Hartford. Jensun will receive a $3,000 yearly renewable scholarship for up to $12,000 to the Savannah College of Art for winning this year's competition, held Thursday, April 4th in Hartford's Wadsworth Atheneum. "Each of our creative, budding artists who participated in this year's competition deserve praise for their work and ability," said Congressman Larson. "This is an outstanding program that recognizes the importance of art to our society and gives students a chance to showcase their talents on a national stage. I want to congratulate Jensun for winning this year's competition and thank all those who help make this a spectacular program." Initiated by members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 1982, the nationwide annual art competition allows high school students from each state to showcase their artistic ability. In addition to the scholarship, each winning work is displayed in an eleven month exhibit in the Cannon Tunnel that leads into the U.S. Capitol Building. ###
04.09.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on Equal Pay Day, marking the day when women's wages equal the wages men were paid the year before: "Today, nearly 50 years after President Kennedy signed the original Equal Pay Act into law the wage gap persists in Connecticut and across the nation. While I am proud of the steps we have taken to address this inequality, today demonstrates the important work still left to do. "Despite the strides made by the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act nationally and the work of the Connecticut Legislature since the passage of the Pay Equity Laws during my time as Senate President, this wage gap continues to negatively impact women, families, and our economy. I commend Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, the dean of our delegation, for standing up for women and families in our nation and praise her tireless efforts to create a fairer workplace. I look forward to working with her and other members as we continue to do all we can to close the wage gap." Currently, women on average earn 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. Congressman Larson is a cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, seeking to strengthen and close current loopholes in the Equal Pay Act. ###
04.08.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered his remarks at the University of Hartford: "Tonight, President Obama spoke to the tragedy of gun violence in our nation and what steps must be taken to end it. The President reminded each of us of the victims and families of 12/14 and of all victims of gun violence calling on Congress to vote on legislation that will help make our nation a safer place. "In December I told Congress politics be damned when it comes to protecting our children and our communities. In Hartford, the President told Americans that if we come together, if we raise our voices together and if we demand this change together that cooperation and common sense will prevail. Congress should listen to our President and the victims of gun violence across the nation and do what is demanded and required by them. Congress owes the American people a vote." ###
04.05.2013	Hartford – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal and Senator Chris Murphy announced that the Newington Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded a $72,000 grant to support department safety and operations. The grant is funded through the Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency's competitive Assistance to Firefighters Grant program. "With winter behind us and warmer weather ahead, the risk of fires and fire related dangers rises throughout Connecticut," said Congressman Larson. "In every neighborhood, firefighters put their safety on the line to protect their communities and deserve our support to minimize their risk of injury. I am pleased to see this funding go to the Newington Volunteer Fire Department and know it will be used to better protect our brave first responders so they can continue protecting each of us." "This grant will allow the Newington Volunteer Fire Department to better protect firefighters who risk their lives daily to keep residents safe from harm," Senator Blumenthal said. "I congratulate the department on being awarded this competitive grant, and I will continue my work to ensure that firefighters and other first responders have the equipment and technology they need to do their jobs in the most safe and effective manner." "Our firefighters deserve our gratitude and support for the work they do putting their lives on the line to protect our communities. This grant will provide lifesaving support to help Newington's firefighters do their jobs more effectively, and will help to keep them safe as well. I'll continue to fight for these heroes as they fight for us," Murphy said. "The Newington Fire Department is extremely excited to receive news of this grant award of 72,000 dollars which will be used to provide new personal protective clothing for our firefighters. The safety of our personnel is a major concern and this new equipment will help greatly. Congressman Larson has been a great friend to the fire service and we appreciate he's continued support of all Connecticut's public safety agencies," said Chief Chris R. Schroeder. ###
04.05.2013	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation issued the following statement today in response to news that the Federal Aviation Administration would delay closure of contract air traffic control towers until June 15: "The Federal Aviation Administration's announcement today that it would delay closure of contract air traffic control towers, including those in Connecticut, until June 15 is welcome news. The decision to close air traffic control towers was misguided and unnecessary and we will continue to push for every opportunity to reverse this harmful action. These closures will put at risk not only public safety, but also our local economies that rely on these airports for jobs and tax revenue. We hope this delay will allow the FAA time to reconsider its decision, and we'll continue to work to make sure they do." ###
04.03.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that Eva Bunnell of his Hartford District Office has won this year's Congressman John Joseph Moakley Award for Exemplary Public Service. The award, presented once a year during Public Service Recognition Week, recognizes the outstanding accomplishments and achievements of one staff member of the New England Congressional delegation. Nominees are reviewed by a panel of New England Federal Executives and the Moakley family and are required to have shown strong innovative methods of thinking and effective work on behalf of their constituents, the people of New England and the nation. Eva is the first staff member of Connecticut's House delegation to win the award. "Today I am proud to celebrate the work of Eva Bunnell, this year's winner of the prestigious Congressman John Joseph Moakley Award for Exemplary Public Service," said Congressman Larson. "For years her efforts and determination to help Connecticut's children, families and most vulnerable populations have been an inspiration to all those fortunate enough to work with her. Eva has also worked to ensure better outcomes from federal spending and advocated for increased youth engagement in government, successfully coordinating efforts between state and federal agencies and establishing the first in the nation Congressional Youth Cabinet." "Congressman Joe Moakley was a powerful and effective figure in Congress, serving with some of our nation's most storied leaders on issues of human rights, environment and housing. Above all, Congressman Moakley was known for never forgetting where he came from," Larson continued. "The announcement of this award is a great honor for our office, and exemplifies everything Eva does for the people of Connecticut." Eva Bunnell began working for Congressman Larson in 2008, recently rising to her current role as Senior Policy Advisor in Hartford. Eva has worked on numerous projects in the First Congressional District, including legislation to help military families who have children with autism, efforts to increase positive outcomes from federal funding for children and families and the creation of the First Congressional Youth Cabinet. Eva currently resides in East Haddam. ###
04.02.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of Dr. Robert V. Remini, former House Historian and author of the authoritative history of the United States House of Representatives: "Throughout his career Dr. Remini was widely recognized as one of the nation's preeminent political historians. His dedication to the country and to the institution of the House of Representatives will not be forgotten. I am honored to have served in the House during his tenure and am privileged to have known him as a friend. Today, I join every member both past and present grateful for his invaluable work to honor and preserve the history of this nation. I am saddened by the loss of one of the great minds of our time, and offer both my thoughts and prayers to his family." Dr. Remini, professor emeritus at University of Illinois at Chicago, was selected to author the definitive written history of the House of Representatives, which was published in 2006. "The House: The History of the House of Representatives" was commissioned following the passage of Congressman Larson's first bill in Congress, The History of the House Awareness and Preservation Act of 1999. Congressman Larson was a strong supporter of Dr. Remini's appointment as House Historian. ###
03.26.2013	Hartford, CT — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut's Congressional Delegation released the following statement today expressing their disappointment in the United States Postal Service (USPS)'s decision to speed up closure of the Wallingford and Stamford postal processing facilities. The closures, which were originally scheduled for next year, will now be taking place this year. "We are outraged at the Postal Service's decision to close the Wallingford and Stamford processing facilities an entire year earlier than the original deadline. Closing these facilities will impact nearly 1,200 jobs, reneging on a promise to the employees and communities that these facilities would remain open during this year to allow enough time to reform the Postal Service and assess if these closures are fiscally prudent. For years, our delegation has been calling for action on real reforms to get the Postal Service back on a sound fiscal footing, and now a failure to act by the House Republican leadership means jobs lost and livelihoods threatened. "We remain committed both to reversing this decision, preventing further closures, and to ensuring that Connecticut residents do not experience delays in mail delivery. "USPS is correct in one respect: it cannot sustain itself under the current system. But unilateral action is not the answer. Congress must pass a comprehensive plan that addresses the challenges facing the Postal Service and continue to provide affordable, accessible service to every address in the country." ###
03.23.2013	Originially published in the Journal Inquirer on March 23, 2013 Ten years after the war in Iraq began, one thing that remains steadfast is our nation's ability to separate the warriors from the war. The men and women of our military have performed extraordinarily through the throes of battle, and under circumstances that most of us will never understand. Service members have been called on time and time again to represent the nation and flag they were sworn to serve, and each time have responded with valor and commitment. What I recall most about the last 10 years is not just the sacrifice of our troops, but the sacrifice and strength of the families that stood behind them. I will never forget the Mother's Day prayer that Leesa Philippon from West Hartford said on behalf of mothers everywhere after she and her husband lost her son Larry. She was a beacon of hope for those with sons and daughters in the service. I remember Pene Palifka of East Hartford, who made the public aware of the lack of armored vehicles and body armor for our troops. I think of Rachel Kenyon from Manchester, who spoke so eloquently about her husband in the field and the challenges of being both a military wife and mother of a child with autism. These are our friends and neighbors, whose actions have not only inspired us, but shown us how raising your voice in the face of adversity can impact a nation. With our troops out of Iraq and continuing to return home from Afghanistan, our nation faces a number of challenges that require the attention and discussion of the American people. Tens of thousands of troops were wounded throughout the war. Many are struggling with the effects of post-traumatic stress. Veterans who have returned from Iraq or Afghanistan are looking for employment in a difficult economy. In Hartford I am fortunate enough to have on my staff Ryan Dion, a Wounded Warrior who now works on behalf of veterans in Connecticut and understands the difficulties that veterans have obtaining the benefits and services they need. Programs like the Wounded Warrior and others are crucial and have helped thousands, but oftentimes are not enough. As local Vietnam veterans like Paul Bucha, Craig Jordan, and Paul Barry have long said, just as the military's promise is to leave no soldier behind, we must always remember to leave no veteran behind. Ten years after this mistake of historic proportions, the most important take-away is to have an active and engaged citizenry. I remember the calls of people like Mims Butterworth, who in various forums and discussions expressed their views and shared their knowledge of what they knew to be right. Many opposed the war, but it was these mothers, fathers, and engaged citizenry who, through tenacity and knowledge, strove for change. The protests of the American people, the voices of our veterans, and the engagement of citizens like Philippon, Palifka, Kenyon, Bucha, Jordan, Berry, and Butterworth, in a chorus of concern, ultimately make the republic what it is today. Their advocacy ensures our service members and their families receive the services they deserve, and stops blunders like the war in Iraq from being repeated. There is considerable work to do now that the war has ended, and it will take our neighbors showing up at various forms of dissent, discourse, dialogue, and conversation to make a change for a better future. We no longer have a draft, but we should have a common call to public service for all our citizens so that we remain involved and committed to the liberties and freedoms that are often taken for granted. That is the role of an informed and knowledgeable citizenry, and it remains the obligation of our elected representatives to engage the public in the major issues of our day. This responsibility should not rest with our armed services alone — it is the responsibility of every single one of us.
03.22.2013	Washington, DC — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut's entire Congressional Delegation today called on the Department of Labor (DOL) to end the current freeze on student enrollment as soon as possible at Job Corps centers in New Haven, Hartford and nationwide. Congress passed legislation this week funding the federal government and giving DOL the authority to immediately transfer funds to the Job Corps program to end the freeze. "The enrollment freeze has resulted in significant restraints on the ability of the high performing New Haven and Hartford, Connecticut Job Corps centers to operate and provide critical services to students" they wrote. "Rather than a broad freeze on student enrollment, we believe ETA could develop a more strategic approach to achieving the necessary cost savings in this program year that takes advantage of any opportunity to transfer available funds and minimize the impact on centers like those in Connecticut. Our hope is that with this new transfer authority, as well as individualized contract modification with Jobs Corps center operators, you can end the student enrollment freeze." DOL suspended new enrollment for Job Corps centers nationwide in January, due to a budget shortfall. The delegation wrote to Acting Secretary Seth Harris at that time, expressing their concern with the decision (letter attached). Started in 1964, Job Corps is an education and training program that helps young people learn a career, earn a high school diploma or GED, and find and keep a good job. For eligible young people at least 16 years of age that qualify as low income, Job Corps provides the all-around skills needed to succeed in a career and in life. Today's letter follows in full: March 22, 2013 The Honorable Seth D. Harris Acting Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins Building 200 Constitution Ave NW Washington, DC 20210 Dear Acting Secretary Harris, We write once again to express our concern with the Employment and Training Administration's (ETA) ongoing freeze on student enrollments at Job Corps centers across the country and to encourage you to use the tools at your disposal, including the transfer authority contained in the Fiscal Year 2013 Continuing Appropriations Act (H.R. 933) recently passed by both the House and Senate, to end the freeze as soon as possible. The enrollment freeze has resulted in significant restraints on the ability of the high performing New Haven and Hartford, Connecticut Job Corps centers to operate and provide critical services to students. In New Haven, 55 young adults set to be admitted were not enrolled and a number of already accepted students on medical leave have been unable to return to the program. In Hartford, 132 projected students were denied enrollment because of the suspension and many of these students, like those in New Haven, need already stretched public assistance as they await the opportunity to join the program. Moreover, the New Haven center cut 14 staff members because of the shortfall and the Hartford center projects that 33 percent of its staff will need to be let go as a result of the enrollment freeze. As you know, H.R. 933 allows ETA to transfer up to $30 million to the Office of Jobs Corps for operations in program years 2012 and 2013, and requires that of this amount, at least $10 million must be transferred within 30 days of the legislation's imminent signing to provide some immediate relief for the current shortfall for the 2012 program year ending on June 30. As we previously wrote, rather than a broad freeze on student enrollment, we believe ETA could develop a more strategic approach to achieving the necessary cost savings in this program year that takes advantage of any opportunity to transfer available funds and minimize the impact on centers like those in Connecticut. Our hope is that with this new transfer authority, as well as individualized contract modification with Jobs Corps center operators, you can end the student enrollment freeze. We respectfully urge you to act promptly, and to update us on your plan to address this critical issue. We recognize that along with the shortfall for this program year, the Department of Labor is operating in a highly constrained budgetary environment, particularly in light of sequestration. Nevertheless, we hope to see a strong funding request for this important program in the Department's upcoming Fiscal Year 2014 budget proposal and look forward to working with you to ensure the program is on more stable footing in program year 2013 and beyond. We continue to be strong supporters of the Jobs Corps program, firmly believing that it plays a critical role providing young people with vital job training opportunities so that they realize success as adults. In today's economy, the mission of the program is as critical as ever. Thank you for your consideration of this important request. Sincerely, Richard Blumenthal Chris Murphy Rosa DeLauro John Larson Joe Courtney Jim Himes Elizabeth Esty ###
03.21.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after the passage of the Republican Budget in the U.S. House of Representatives: "The Republican budget passed in the House will hinder job creation across the country and end the Medicare guarantee. Republican leadership made good on their promise today to protect and promote the ideology of the few instead of standing with the American people. This budget is nothing new from Republican leadership, with breaks to millionaires and billionaires, while balancing our national debt on the backs of those who can least afford it. "Job creation is the most important goal in our recovering economy. Despite this reality, the Republican budget is estimated to cost over 700,000 jobs this year alone. If this budget became law, Medicare would be changed to a voucher program, effectively shifting more costs on to seniors without addressing long-term health care costs. Costs of medication for Medicare beneficiaries would rise as the donut-hole is re-opened, and access to nursing home care would be compromised because of deep Medicaid cuts. "House Democrats offered a plan that would prevent these harmful cuts, create jobs, and protect the promise of Medicare. This plan would preserve, not repeal, the vital benefits of the Affordable Care Act, which allows children and young adults to stay on their parents' insurance coverage until age 26, and ensures those with preexisting conditions are able receive the care they need. I am disappointed to see this budget pass the House today and will continue to push for a balanced plan for the American people." ###
03.19.2013	Click here for a Timeline of Congressman Larson's Efforts on Coltsville Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senator Richard Blumenthal along with Senator Chris Murphy introduced legislation to designate Coltsville in Hartford a National Historical Park. The Coltsville complex, anchored by the iconic blue dome of the East Armory, was central to the birth of precision manufacturing in America and was a key driver in the advancement of the industrial revolution. Bringing a National Park designation to this historic treasure will promote economic development and tourism in Hartford while preserving the legacy of the Samuel and Elizabeth Colt and their contribution to our nation's history. "Coltsville has deep roots in our nation's industrial revolution, along with a history of innovation and manufacturing. I am proud to reintroduce the Coltsville National Historical Park Act today, and am hopeful that this Congress can come together to pass this bill and preserve a critical piece of our national heritage," said Congressman Larson. "I am heartened by recent developments at Coltsville and look forward to seeing continued progress in the area. "I applaud Senator Blumenthal and Senator Murphy for their support along with many other state and local leaders," Larson continued, "and look forward to working towards the National Park status this Congress." "The Coltsville complex is a historic treasure, enshrining Colt's powerful role in advancing the industrial revolution and manufacturing in Connecticut and nationwide. The Coltsville National Historical Park Act will help preserve an important piece of our state's history and help ensure that generations to come have the opportunity to visit and learn about this historic landmark," said Blumenthal. "Coltsville's rich history and contributions to our state's economy and manufacturing sector should be honored and recognized for generations to come," said Murphy. "Designating this site as a National Park will help boost economic development and tourism in the region, and will help educate visitors from across the country about Connecticut's manufacturing history." The Coltsville National Historical Park Act is similar to legislation introduced by Representative Larson and Senator Lieberman in the last Congress. It would give the Secretary of the Interior the authority to establish a National Park once certain criteria is met. Over the last two years, significant progress has been made towards establishing a National Park at the site, including a pledge of support for a National Park at Coltsville by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar during a visit to Hartford. Unfortunately, no new National Park designations were passed in the 112th. In 1855 Samuel Colt founded the Colt's Patent Firearms Manufacturing Company, which became model for precision manufacturing nationwide. For nearly 40 years following his death his wife Elizabeth would run and operate the complex, continuing their tradition of entrepreneurship and innovation. The site was a fully integrated industrial district that contained manufacturing facilities, worker housing, community amenities such as social and religious buildings, and the home of Samuel and Elizabeth Colt. Coltsville continued to be a manufacturing hub into the 20th century, attracting highly skilled workers and making a lasting contribution to the national economy. Coltsville was named a National Historic Landmark in 2008. ###
03.15.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of First Lieutenant Christopher Rogan of Berlin: "My thoughts and prayers go out to the family, friends and community coping with the loss of Christopher Rogan. A West Point Graduate and Army Ranger, First Lieutenant Rogan served his nation with integrity and courageousness. One of the kindest men my office has ever nominated to West Point, this news is truly heartbreaking. As all of us mourn in the wake of his passing, I offer whatever help I can provide to his family through this difficult time." ###
03.13.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on reports that Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel will be reviewing the recently approved Distinguished Warfare Medal: "After meeting with Veterans from the First District including John Hollis and members of the America legion, I strongly agree with their opposition to ranking the Distinguished Warfare Medal above combat medals including the Bronze Star. In Hartford I am proud to have Ryan Dion, a wounded warrior, working on behalf of veterans in Connecticut. I have seen the challenges Ryan and other soldiers wounded in combat have had to overcome, and believe their sacrifice deserves our nation's highest praise. While all members of our armed forces deserve recognition for the valuable work they do, the Bronze Star, Purple Heart and other combat medals have a special significance in our nation's history. I applaud Secretary Hagel for his review, and urge him to promptly make this change in the ranking order." ###
03.13.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement after the Air Force, Army and Marine Corps suspended their tuition assistance programs: "When our brave service members made their commitment to fight for our nation, we made a commitment to provide them with the educational benefits they deserve. Now, as a result of sequestration, they are forced to go without these benefits. Not only is it unfair to take away benefits that our soldiers have rightly earned, it hurts our credibility to a volunteer service force who signed up with an understanding that they would receive this assistance. Both sides of the aisle must come together and work towards a balanced solution that honors our commitment to these service members." The announcement of the suspension of tuition assistance programs comes after across-the-board cuts caused by sequestration began earlier this month. Service members will continue to have access to educational benefits through the GI Bill. ###
03.12.2013	(Washington) – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the proposed budget by House Republicans: "Paul Ryan, in a clear effort to appease the radical Tea Party Members of the Republican Conference, has put forth a budget even more austere than his last proposal to end Medicare as we know it. Today Ryan refused to deal with the problems our nation is currently facing, and proposed a budget that would end the Medicare guarantee, end protections for those with pre-existing conditions, and prevent children from staying on their parents policies until age 26. "This budget does not address the most critical thing we can do to address our deficit – create jobs. This budget also fails to recognize the fact that we do not have a Medicare beneficiary problem, we have a problem related to the overall costs of healthcare. These costs need to be addressed based on the extraordinary amount of waste, fraud, and abuse that exists in the system, not on the backs of beneficiaries. "This proposal is disingenuous and again shows a Republican leadership willing to throw raw meat to their radical conservatives, who would rather see millions without healthcare than admit that the American people are better served by making sure everyone has an opportunity to be insured." ###
03.11.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senator Richard Blumenthal announced the National Historic Landmark designation for the Harriet Beecher Stowe House in Hartford. The renowned author of Uncle Tom's Cabin lived in her Hartford home from 1873 until her death in 1896. "The Harriet Beecher Stowe House is a monument to the life of one of our nation's most celebrated reformists, whose work on the injustices of slavery influenced millions," said Congressman Larson. "Now as a National Historic Landmark, the Harriet Beecher Stowe House can continue to serve as a reminder of those brave individuals who spoke out against inequality. I want to thank Secretary Salazar for this designation, and applaud The Harriet Beecher Stowe Center for their efforts to make this possible." "The Harriet Beecher Stowe House has been a Connecticut treasure for more than a century, educating countless visitors about Stowe's profound contributions to the anti-slavery movement and our nation's history," said Senator Blumenthal. "I was pleased to join Senator Lieberman and Congressman Larson last year in supporting the nomination, and I am excited that the U.S. Department of the Interior has officially designated the site a National Historic Landmark. It is a proud day for Connecticut history." Stowe Center Executive Director Katherine Kane said, "Harriet Beecher Stowe is Connecticut's First Lady of Literature. Her lifetime as a writer and activist made an outsized impact on America still felt today. The Stowe Center is pleased to receive news of this designation and thanks our federal officials for their support." Beginning in 1935, the National Historic Landmarks Program designates significant historic places that possess exceptional value or quality in illustrating or interpreting the heritage of the United States. Last November Congressman Larson, Senator Blumenthal and former Senator Joseph I. Lieberman wrote a letter of support for the nomination of the Harriet Beecher Stowe House to the Chief of the National Register of Historic Places and National Historic Landmarks Program. ###
03.08.2013	Hartford – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor's February employment report. The report showed that the U.S. economy added 236,000 jobs in February, with unemployment dropping to 7.7 percent: "The recent drop in the national unemployment rate, along with the addition of 236,000 jobs, is encouraging. Yet even as the nation steadily recovers, Americans are still struggling in this challenging economic climate. Many are searching for a job while others are now forced to deal with the recent across-the-board cuts to programs and services across the country. "In yet another demonstration of politics over people, House Republican Leadership refused to act on a plan that would have averted cuts to education, job training, the military and more. While our national debt is an issue that must be dealt with, Congress has a responsibility to invest in the programs and services that grow our economy and put people back to work. I am committed to working with both sides of the aisle on a fair and balanced plan that will enhance our economy's ability to grow, and give Americans the support they need to find a job." ###
03.06.2013	Washington - Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Adrian Smith (R-NE) are encouraging members of the public, organizations, researchers and other stakeholders to submit comments, information, facts, and data relevant to the review of the current tax code being conducted by the House Committee on Ways and Means. Larson and Smith are leading the bipartisan Ways and Means Tax Reform Working Group on Financial Services. "Creating a clear avenue of communication between constituents, stakeholders and these working groups is a critical step in reforming our tax code," said Larson. "The information collected from these submissions will be extremely helpful in our work to review current financial services tax law." "Public comments will ensure we have the best information possible as we continue to review the current tax code and work toward comprehensive reform," said Smith. "I hope individuals and groups will take advantage of this opportunity to engage with the working groups, and participate in this open approach to tax reform." Public comments will be accepted through Monday, April 15, 2013, and will be published on the Ways and Means Committee's website and included in the final Joint Committee on Taxation report, which will be delivered to the Committee on Ways and Means. The process for submitting comments is below: Any person(s) and/or organization(s) wishing to submit comments can email tax.reform@mail.house.gov In the subject line of the email, please indicate "Comments: (name of) Tax Reform Working Group" (note: be sure to specify the name of the working group in the subject line - e.g., Energy Tax Reform Working Group) Attach your submission as a Word document In addition to the Word document attachment, please include in the body of the email a contact name, physical address, phone number and email address For questions, or if you encounter technical problems, please call (202) 225-3625 or (202) 225-1721 ### ?
03.04.2013	Hartford – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the nomination of Gina McCarthy to head the Environmental Protection Agency: "When President Barack Obama delivered his State of the Union address, he spoke to the importance of addressing climate change and reducing pollution. As Connecticut's Department of Environmental Protection Commissioner Gina McCarthy worked tirelessly to protect Connecticut's environment and helped develop the type of forward thinking policies that ensured future generations would enjoy our natural resources for years to come. With experience in both Connecticut and Massachusetts, Gina has demonstrated a great sense of the important issues facing New England and has continued to show her commitment to protecting our environment as the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Air and Radiation. "As a leader in her efforts to improve air quality across the country, Gina has worked successfully with both Democrats and Republicans to improve environmental and public health policy. I am thrilled that she has been nominated to head the Environmental Protection Agency, and know that her dedication, experience and expertise make her an outstanding choice for this position." ###
03.02.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, released the following statement on the current Shelby County v. Holder Supreme Court case challenging a key provision of the Voting Rights Act: "The Voting Rights Act, although born of a different era, continues to be a critical part of our efforts to safeguard the electoral process in the United States," said Congressman Larson. "Our most recent election illustrates the unjust struggles that minority populations continue to face while trying to exercise their right to vote. We need to ensure that across the country local policy decisions are not affecting elections by deliberately hindering anyone's ability to cast a ballot." ###
02.28.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined the U.S. House of Representatives in passing the Violence Against Women Act. In a 286-138 vote, the House passed the Senate Version of VAWA, S. 47. "Today the House answered millions of Americans calling on Congress to pass this critical legislation. In the face of obstacles from House Republican leadership, the Violence Against Women Act remained a pillar in our nation's focus to end violence in all its forms. I am pleased that, despite the opposition and brinkmanship of some, the House passed the bipartisan Senate version of VAWA, affording the LGBT, Native American, and immigrant communities an ability to seek the treatment and preventative services every individual deserves," said Congressman Larson. "I am proud of individuals from the first district, and all districts, who stepped forward to fight for the critical programs and services that VAWA provides. The passage of VAWA is a testament to their commitment to preventing, and treating victims of violence." Earlier this month the Senate passed S. 47 with wide, bipartisan support, after VAWA was allowed to expire at the end of 2011. First passed in 1994, VAWA provides funding and services for victims of domestic violence. Larson, an original cosponsor of the Violence Against Women Act, recently joined the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence and CT Sexual Assault Crisis Services for a roundtable discussion in Hartford on the importance of VAWA to Connecticut. ###
02.26.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the upcoming sequester. Without Congressional action, the sequester will begin automatic, across the board budget cuts to a wide range of services and programs across the country starting this Friday, March 1st: "The looming impact of sequestration is becoming clearer each day. I voted against the sequester in 2011 because I felt that getting our fiscal house in order should start with job creation, not reckless across the board cuts. Now, with four days left, only a shrinking few truly want these cuts to come to fruition. Congress should work together this week and vote on a balanced plan that creates jobs rather than cuts them, and grows our economy instead of getting in the way of our recovery. "Job creation continues to be the priority here in Connecticut. Despite a steady recovery and strong industrial manufacturing base, many residents are still looking for a job and can ill-afford to lose the programs and services that will help them get back into the workplace. With cuts to job search assistance and other employment programs, more than 10,000 Connecticut residents could lose this critical help if sequestration goes through. This, like most of these cuts, is counterproductive as we work to decrease unemployment nationwide. "Those seeking employment would not be the only ones impacted by sequestration in Connecticut. Schools will see a loss in funding, putting educators' jobs at risk and hurting services to students with disabilities. Hundreds of children would lose access to Head Start, and others would lose the care they need so that their parents can continue to work. Funding that supports our law enforcement would be reduced, and up to 300 victims of domestic violence would see a loss in services. While there is no doubt that we should address our national debt, these automatic cuts place further burden on education, child care, and public safety while continuing to allow highly profitable industries such as big oil to receive tax breaks. These cuts and others are far from what Americans need as many continue to struggle in our recovery. "It's not a secret that sequestration is wrong for our country. Today, just as in 2011, many experts and officials know that Congress needs to come together on a fair and balanced plan that strengthens our recovery and improves employment. I urge every member to listen to the American people, and work together to prevent the sequester." ###
02.21.2013	Hartford, CT – This week Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) joined in writing a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta calling on TRICARE, the military healthcare program, to collaborate with military families and subject experts on the development of a pilot program which will help military children with autism. The one-year pilot program, included in the final 2013 defense budget authorization, is a modified version of a provision authored by Rep. Larson that would require TRICARE to provide military children with autism greater access to behavioral health treatment. "This program must be implemented promptly and given every opportunity to succeed," said Larson. "While it is crucial that we work towards a permanent solution for military families that have children with autism, we must do everything we can now to ensure that this pilot program is as effective as possible. As this program is developed, TRICARE must work with military families and subject matter experts who will help provide vital insight for ensuring that children are receiving appropriate access to care. Military families, like the Kenyons of Manchester, have sacrificed a great deal for their nation and should not have to battle to access the services and medical care their children need. I am pleased to be joined by Representatives Joe Courtney, Walter Jones, Tom Rooney and Mike Doyle in this effort and will be watching the implementation of this program closely in the coming months." "Military families—particularly those with a parent deployed abroad or on a submarine—face unique challenges in raising children with autism," said Courtney. "This program is an important step towards ensuring that coverage for therapies and medications that are effective in treating autism will be available for military families through TRICARE. By implementing this one-year pilot program, we not only show that we take treating autism seriously, but we provide assistance to military families that already do so much to keep America safe." The National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 created the one-year pilot program that allows military children with autism to receive greater access to a behavioral health treatment known as applied behavior analysis (ABA) under TRICARE. ABA is proven to significantly help children that have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis. Access to ABA is currently limited by an annual dollar cap on coverage and is not available to children of military retirees with TRICARE coverage. In the 112th Congress, Larson introduced the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288) after hearing of the issues with TRICARE for military families from Rachel Kenyon, a constituent and wife of Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon of Connecticut. The one-year pilot program comes after the bipartisan passage in the House and Senate amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 that would have required permanent coverage under TRICARE Basic of ABA treatments for active military and military retiree families. The full letter is attached. ###
02.20.2013	Hartford, CT - This year Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) will hold the annual Congressional Arts Competition on Thursday, April 4th. Open to first district high school students only, the student who wins first prize this year will not only have their work hung in Washington D.C., but will also receive a $12,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art! See below for additional details and guidelines: 31st Annual Congressional Arts CompetitionThursday, April 4th, 5:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m.Wadsworth Atheneum600 Main Street, Hartford CT 06103 Submissions will be accepted from April 1st – April 3rd, 9:00 a.m. – 5:30 p.m. with a completed student release forum General Guidelines: The competition is open to high school students only. Exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Artwork must be two-dimensional. Each piece can be no larger than 28" x 28" x4" (28 inches high, 28 inches wide, and 4 inches deep, including the frame. Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 pounds. Artwork accepted in the following mediums. Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collage: must be two dimensional Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photography Each entry must be original in concept, design, and execution and may not violate any U.S. copyright laws. Any entry that has been copied from an existing photo (not the student's own), painting, graphic, advertisement, or any other work produced by another person is a violation of the competition rules and will not be accepted. Work entered must be in the original medium (that is, not a scanned reproduction of a painting or drawing). Artwork will hang in the Capitol for the entire year of the exhibition and cannot be returned to the students earlier. Students should, therefore, submit artwork they will not need for other purposes. ###
02.18.2013	Originially published in the Torrington Register Citizen on 02/18/13 On the occasion of George Washington's hundredth birthday, Daniel Webster cited one of the great man's last admonishments to the American people: that nothing is more dangerous than a government "at war with the very elements of its own existence." Today as we come together to honor the legacy of two of our greatest presidents, Washington's words ring truer than ever. This Congress will face a myriad of challenges; some will be new, and some we've seen before. Following the horrible tragedy in Newtown, members from Texas to Connecticut will need to put their political ideologies aside and come together to find a way to improve our gun violence prevention efforts. As President Obama has said, while it's important to acknowledge the individual's experience with gun violence, as well as regional opinions on guns, it is more imperative that we join together to strengthen our efforts. Over the next month House Republican Leadership will also need to make a decision on whether or not to avoid the unpopular, across-the-board cuts that were instituted as a result of Congress' inability to compromise at the end of 2012. No matter how daunting, no matter how many warring ideologies may be at stake, Congress must work together to take these challenges head on and do what is in the best interest of the American people. It is time our nation got back to what has historically been our saving grace. As we embark upon this 113th Congress, I urge our leaders to follow Washington's example, put aside their differences, and come together for the benefit of the American people.
02.15.2013	Hartford – Today Rep. John B. Larson (Ct-01) announced his support as an original cosponsor for the Marketplace Fairness Act, which was introduced yesterday. The act would allow states including Connecticut to collect sales tax from out of state online retailers. "Connecticut's small businesses deserve a fair shake against larger, online retailers," said Congressman Larson. "This bipartisan act would bring greater equality to the marketplace and help Connecticut collect revenue that it should already receive. I am pleased to support this legislation, and look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle on its passage." Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy and Revenue Services Commissioner Kevin Sullivan are strong supporters of the federal legislation. Said Sullivan, "We appreciate Congressman Larson's being part of the leadership for federal tax fairness. This legislation will finally level the playing field for Connecticut businesses competing with online retailers, encourage smaller businesses to market online, increase state tax collections without increasing state taxes and end the personal tax liability of state taxpayers when remote sellers fail to collect and remit sales tax." ###
02.14.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the announcement of finalists for the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. The Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art and the Hartford Public Library were selected as finalists for the National Medal, the nation's highest honor awarded to museums and libraries who make significant and exceptional contributions to their communities: "The Wadsworth Atheneum and Hartford Public Library provide a wealth of educational, cultural, and historical resources to communities in Hartford. For years their work has helped countless students, adults, and families who benefit from the programs and tools they offer. I am glad the Institute of Museum and Library Services has recognized their work in our communities, and wish each of them luck as the winners are chosen in the coming months." ###
02.14.2013	Washington- Today Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT) and Adrian Smith (R-NE) announced they are leading the Tax Reform Working Group on Financial Services. The group is one of eleven bipartisan groups established by the House Committee on Ways and Means to inform its work on comprehensive tax reform. Larson and Smith will work together to review current financial services tax law and will report back to the Committee after compiling data and information from a wide range of sources. "Finding common sense ways to reform the current tax code is crucial to growing our economy," said Larson. "Now, members will work across the aisle to research and develop the best path towards a tax code that gives all Americans the ability to succeed. I commend Ranking Member Levin and Chairman Camp for establishing these groups, and I look forward to working with Representative Smith in the 113th Congress." "The American tax code is overly-complex, outdated, and uncompetitive," said Smith. "We need comprehensive reform to simplify the code for all Americans to make compliance easier and encourage economic growth. I look forward to working with Congressman Larson and I am optimistic we can help enact comprehensive reform during this Congress." ###
02.12.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) called on House Republican Leadership to vote on and pass the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). Earlier today, by a vote of 78-22, the Senate passed a bill identical to the VAWA reauthorization introduced by House Democrats last month. "Today the Senate demonstrated wide, bipartisan support for the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act," said Larson. "For years the programs and services made possible by this legislation have proven to be effective in preventing domestic violence in our communities. Now, as we bolster our efforts to end violence across this country, House Republican Leadership has yet another opportunity to vote on this critical legislation. We must vote on and pass this act to ensure the programs and services it provides can continue to make our communities safer as we work to end violence in all its forms." In January House Democrats reintroduced the Violence Against Women Act for the 113th Congress. First passed in 1994, VAWA provided funding and services for victims of domestic violence, and established new penalties for crimes related to domestic violence and violence against women. VAWA expired at the end of 2012 after passing with strong bipartisan support in the Senate last Congress. ###
02.12.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Barack Obama delivered his annual State of the Union Address: "Tonight President Obama confirmed his commitment to creating jobs and growing the economy. The President's focus on jobs and the economy, as well as his emphasis on infrastructure and manufacturing is important to Connecticut and the constituents of the First Congressional District. This has been my focus, and will continue to be my focus because there is nothing more important than the simple dignity that comes from a job. "I am thankful that the President remains committed to addressing the issue of gun violence in a comprehensive manner. Many of us invited victims of gun violence to tonight's State of the Union address; I was honored to bring Ross Hollander, President of Hartford Distributors in Manchester. On August 3, 2010, Ross and his family experienced one of the worst tragedies the first district has ever seen as eight employees of Hartford Distributors were shot and killed and two were injured in a senseless, horrific act of violence. And I couldn't have been more proud that the President used his State of the Union speech to call on Congress to finally vote on common sense approaches to addressing gun violence. It's time we stand up for the victims of Newtown, Manchester, Aurora, Chicago, and Tucson. We owe them nothing less. "Further, as the newly-appointed Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, I appreciated the President's remarks about long lines at the polls, and his willingness to take a stand against other forms of voter suppression we saw across the country. I am glad that President Obama has acknowledged that we must take immediate steps to reform our broken system of elections, and I look forward to working with the President and members of Congress to address these injustices." "I am also pleased that the President announced the withdrawal of 34,000 troops. Ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan has been a longtime commitment of mine, and I am pleased at this step to bring our men and women home. "No member of Congress can deny the need to hasten our recovery. It is my sincere hope that, based on some encouraging words from the Republican leadership, they are prepared to work with the President to put the country back to work. That's what the American people want, that's what we need, and that's where my efforts will be focused." ###
02.11.2013	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Delegation issued the following statement in support of Governor Malloy's application for an emergency declaration: "Our first responders, snow removal crews and the hundreds of state and local employees working in emergency operation centers throughout the state are to be commended for their incredible response to this record-breaking storm. We wholeheartedly support Governor Malloy's emergency declaration request and will fight to ensure that Connecticut receives the federal aid it needs to respond and recover from this storm." The delegation also issued the following letter to President Obama in support of the emergency declaration. The full text of the letter follows: February 9, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. Via: FEMA Regional Administrator Don R. Boyce Region 1, Boston Massachusetts Dear President Obama: We write in strong support of the application of Connecticut Governor Dannell Malloy for an emergency declaration (Public Assistance Categories A and B) under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act for all of the state's counties (Hartford, Fairfield, Litchfield, Middlesex, New Haven, New London, Tolland and Windham) and two tribal nations, Mashantucket and Mohegan, due to the severe winter storm, which began on February 8, 2013. Connecticut received record or near record breaking snowfall across every part of the state. With snowfall totals in some areas reaching 38 inches and a recorded wind gust of 82 mph in Westport, this latest storm is historic in every measure. The Governor is requesting this Federal assistance in order to immediately meet the extraordinary level of snow removal equipment needs that are required to ensure the public's safety. The Administration has been very cooperative in assisting state officials in their preparation for the impact of this storm. We remain committed to providing any assistance to you and Governor Malloy as may be necessary to speed Connecticut's recovery from the costs as a result of this storm. As Governor Malloy indicated in his February 9, 2013 letter, Federal resources are critical to ensure rapid, effective response and recovery from this record breaking snowfall and wind damage. Connecticut's Congressional delegation strongly supports the Governor's request and stands ready to support ongoing efforts to ensure Connecticut quickly recovers. Sincerely, Senator Richard Blumenthal Senator Chris Murphy Representative John Larson – 1st District Representative Joe Courtney – 2nd District Representative Rosa DeLauro – 3rd District Representative Jim Himes – 4th District Representative Elizabeth Esty – 5th District ###
02.11.2013	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Delegation issued a statement in response to the White House's recent announcement that the Presidential Citizens Medal will be awarded posthumously to the six educators who were killed in the Newtown massacre. In December, the delegation sent a letter to President Obama requesting that he recognize some of the heroes "whose efforts saved lives on that dark day." "We cannot think of six Connecticut residents who are more deserving of this high honor. These extraordinary educators sacrificed their lives to protect their students and gave new meaning to the definition of public service. All of America has been inspired by their strength, bravery, and caring," the delegation said. "We look forward to joining the families of these courageous educators next week at a White House ceremony where the President will posthumously honor them with the Presidential Citizens Medal. And we hope that their legacies inspire change." Background on the Presidential Citizens Medal can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/citizensmedal/criteria. ###
02.08.2013	Originially published in the New Britain Herald on 02/08/13 Since the beginning of President Obama's first term, we've heard countless narratives about Congress' inability to deal with the debt, and how this could affect our nation's economy. As recently as a few weeks ago, Congress finally raised the debt ceiling, but only after putting families and businesses through an unnecessary period of uncertainty. In August of 2011, Congress raised the debt ceiling, but only after instituting automatic budget cuts no one wanted. This politically-driven crisis was not only unnecessary, but it left Connecticut's cities, towns and citizens watching and waiting during this Congress-created showdown as waves of anxiety and uncertainty weighed heavy on their minds. The impact of the debt ceiling and fiscal cliff debate on Connecticut cannot be understated. During my forum on the debt ceiling this past January, Mike Walsh, director of finance for the town of East Hartford, spoke of how hostage politics and brinksmanship in Washington can affect residents in East Hartford. Just the threat alone of our nation defaulting on its bills, and the threat of automatic spending cuts across the board is enough to negatively impact the financial marketplace, which in turn affects the finances of our municipalities. The stakes are high as continued uncertainty affects retirement plans, pension funds, and the ability of cities and towns like East Hartford to invest in the infrastructure they need to thrive. Mr. Walsh's account of how uncertainty in Congress trickles down to East Hartford, and subsequently to the tax payer, was eye-opening and should underscore to members of Congress the need to put an end to these self-imposed crises. As we have heard from numerous experts and officials, the fight over the debt ceiling is really a fight over whether our country should pay its bills. Let me be emphatic: the U.S. has never defaulted on its debt. Since the early 1960s, Congress passed over 75 separate measures to change the limit on our federal debt. Under President Ronald Reagan the debt ceiling was raised 18 times, and under President George W. Bush the debt ceiling was raised seven times. Using the debt ceiling to hold our nation's economy hostage for purely political or ideological reasons is not only unprecedented, it is irresponsible. We must end this pattern and focus on the real needs of the American people: job creation and economic stability. While there is no question that we must deal with our national debt, the risks of default are too high and too many to continue our endless debate on the debt ceiling. In 2011, we witnessed the impact of a Republican-controlled Congress threatening default on the full faith and credit of the United States. Moving forward, Congress should take the debt ceiling off the table, and give the American people and financial community the guarantee that defaulting is not, and never will be, an option. The last thing residents of Connecticut need in these difficult economic times are increased costs because Congress cannot work together to solve our economic issues. Democrat or Republican, we are all Americans, and should work together to pay our bills and give everyone an equal opportunity to work and succeed.
02.07.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut House Delegation today applauded the appointment of Judith Stein, founder and executive director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy in Willimantic, to the Bipartisan Long-Term Care Commission. Created earlier this year as part of the American Tax Relief Act, the commission is responsible for developing a plan to establish, implement, and finance a comprehensive set of long-term care services for seniors and people with disabilities. Last month, Reps. Joe Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Jim Himes and Elizabeth Esty wrote to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging her to appoint Stein to the commission. Focused on legal representation of the elderly since beginning her legal career in 1975, Judith Stein was the Co-Director of Legal Assistance to Medicare Patients (LAMP), where she managed the first Medicare advocacy program in the country. She has extensive experience in developing and administering Medicare advocacy projects, representing Medicare beneficiaries, producing educational materials, teaching and consulting. She has been lead or co-counsel in numerous federal class action and individual cases challenging improper Medicare policies and denials. "With over 30 years of experience working with Medicare beneficiaries, Judith Stein will be an invaluable asset to the Long-Term Care Commission," said Larson. "The wealth of knowledge and understanding she brings to the table are unparalleled, and will no doubt benefit this commission in their work to strengthen our nation's long-term care systems." "I cannot think of a single person better equipped than Judy Stein to serve on this commission as it addresses the issues facing seniors and our aging Baby Boomer population," said Courtney. "Over the past 25 years, Judy has transformed the Center for Medicare Advocacy from a local voice into a national leader on Medicare and Medicaid policy. I am extremely pleased that her years of experience and expertise will be put to good use as the commission tackles big challenges ahead." "There is no greater champion for seniors than Judy Stein, who has worked tirelessly on behalf of the people of Connecticut and all Americans to ensure they have access to the health care they need and deserve." said DeLauro. "The unparalleled experience she will bring to the Commission is imperative as this important panel works to fulfill its mission, and should bring comfort to American families knowing that they have someone who truly understands and will represent their needs." "Seniors and families across the country will have an impressive advocate in Judy Stein as she joins the Long-Term Care Commission," Himes said. "Her advocacy and expertise have served us well at the Center for Medicare Advocacy, and we're lucky to have her working on our behalf as we address the challenges associated with reforming and protecting the programs that serve our aging population." "With her decades of experience as an advocate for elderly Americans and Medicare beneficiaries, Judy Stein will provide a critical voice for seniors, people with disabilities, and all Americans with long-term care needs," said Esty. "I feel certain that our country will benefit from Judy's knowledge, experience, and leadership on long-term care issues, and I'm grateful for her willingness to serve." ###
02.07.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced he will be the co-chairman of the Congressional Joint Strike Fighter Caucus in the 113th Congress. First launched in 2011, the bi-partisan caucus is charged with garnering support for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Program and keeping members informed on issues related to the programs development, testing and deployment. "The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is on the forefront of our military capability," said Larson. "Powered by engines made right in East Hartford, Connecticut, the F-35 has garnered worldwide attention as a game changer in defense. Now more than ever, in the face of the sequester and our efforts to strengthen international security, we must continue to fight for programs like the F-35. This program alone employs tens of thousands of highly skilled workers across the country who, when coupled with our brave men and women in uniform, will help continue our legacy as the preeminent military power. I look forward to working with my co-chair and the founder of the JSF Caucus, Congresswoman Kay Granger, to ensure that every member of the House understands the importance of this critical national security program." "I'd like to welcome Rep. Larson as the new Co-Chair of the Joint Strike Fighter Caucus, and I look forward to working with him. Our partnership reflects the bipartisan support for the Joint Strike Fighter in Congress. Together, we will work with our colleagues to ensure that this vital program continues to move forward and the United States and our partners maintain air superiority around the world," said Granger. ###
02.06.2013	Washington, DC — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut's Congressional Delegation released the following statement today applauding the announcement Connecticut will be receiving $71.8 million that may be used to repair homes and businesses damaged by Hurricane Sandy, and to upgrade and repair critical infrastructure. The funding, provided by the Community Development Block Grant (CDGB) program, is part of the $16 billion included in the Sandy Disaster Relief bill Congress passed last month. In the weeks ahead, the State of Connecticut will submit a plan for spending the funding. "This money is critical to Connecticut's recovery from Hurricane Sandy. From repairing and improving infrastructure to addressing coastal flood plain issues and helping homeowners and businesses rebuild, the State has a long list of targets that this funding may address. We are pleased Secretary Donovan moved so quickly after we asked him to and we will continue to fight to ensure that Connecticut residents see every last dollar to which they are entitled." Yesterday the delegation joined together to write to Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan (letter attached) urging him to ensure Connecticut received sufficient funding when the CDGB amounts were announced. "It is imperative that Connecticut be included in CDGB funding allocations as this was not the case when our state was severely impacted last year with Tropical Storm Irene and a heavy snowfall in October," they wrote. "More people in Connecticut have registered for FEMA assistance than in either of the previous storms, and we cannot afford to be left out again." ###
02.06.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement today after President Barack Obama asked Congress to act on a balanced plan that would avoid the upcoming sequester: "Every member of Congress understands the impact sequestration would have on our nation. Despite a deadline less than a month away, House Republican Leadership continues to show their opposition to any balanced plan that avoids the sequester, and provides stability for our country. "Today after House Republicans again refused to act on a long-term plan for our economy, President Obama expressed that a short-term balanced package may be needed to avoid sequestration. While we should continue to work towards long-term certainty for Americans, he is right to ask Congress to give our nation breathing room in the following months. The nation will be looking to Congress as sequestration draws closer, and it is my hope that every member, regardless of politics or ideology, acts in the interest of the American people." ###
02.05.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the 20th Anniversary of the Family Medical Leave Act: "Thanks to the extraordinary efforts of United States Senator Chris Dodd and Dr. Edward Zigler of Yale University, close to 100 million Americans have benefited from the Family Medical Leave Act, underscoring its importance in assuring our working families are treated fairly and provided support when they need it most. For 20 years the Family Medical Leave Act has provided job security to countless mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, children and grandchildren caring for a relative. For 20 years we have shown our commitment to working families across this nation. "The Family Medical Leave Act puts people first. Prior to its passage, our country was sadly behind others in how we treated hard-working citizens forced to make the painful choice between their jobs and caring for their family. Rarely could an employee take protected time off for an illness, pregnancy, or to care for a sick family member." The FMLA ensures that men and women can retain their jobs while taking time off to care for family members who are ill, newborn children, or their own medical conditions. Currently the act applies to all public agencies, private sector employers who employ 50 or more employees, and spouses, children, parents and next of kin of covered military servicemembers with a serious injury or illness. Larson also wants to acknowledge the Permanent Commission on the Status of Women who in 1987 played a leading role in pushing through the first family and medical leave act in the nation. ###
02.01.2013	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement today on the U.S. Department of Labor's January employment report, showing that the economy added 157,000 jobs in January with unemployment rising to 7.9 percent: "The January employment report further illustrates the need for Congress to find solutions to get Americans back to work. While national and private sector growth remained steady, the New Year did not bring new opportunities for many still struggling to find a job. "Now is not the time for Congress to play politics with our economy. Earlier this month, the Republican-controlled House had an opportunity to provide certainty to the American people by taking the debt ceiling off the table. Instead, Congress kicked the can down the road, and in effect rescheduled our debt ceiling debate for later this year. "When Florida Athletic Director Jeremy Foley fired Ron Zook mid-season, he said: 'What should be done eventually, must be done immediately.' The same could be said in Congress where, instead of a fan base calling for success on the field, the American people are calling for certainty in our economy." ###
01.30.2013	(Hartford) – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after President Barack Obama presented his immigration reform proposal: "Our nation's immigration system is long overdue for the type of comprehensive reform our President presented today. I am also encouraged by the bipartisan spirit of yesterday's Senate proposal and hope that both parties will continue to work together on this important issue. As always, the devil is in the details, and while this remains a broad discussion that requires national attention, I am pleased to see the President set the right tone by laying out a framework for a path forward. I look forward to working with members in the coming months to review these proposals and develop the best possible solutions to fix our broken immigration system and secure our borders." ###
01.29.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation today issued the following statement regarding bipartisan Senate approval of the comprehensive aid package for victims of Superstorm Sandy. "Tonight's vote provides much-needed relief to those devastated by Superstorm Sandy. This bipartisan aid package provides families, businesses and communities the ability to rebuild, and will help residents and municipalities invest in infrastructure that will lessen the impact of future storms. We are pleased to continue our nation's tradition of coming together to support victims of natural disasters, and look forward to continuing our work to ensure Connecticut receives the aid it needs." ###
01.24.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on Defense Secretary Leon Panetta's decision to remove the military ban on women serving in combat: "Whether in business, politics, academics, or the military, Americans should be given the same opportunities regardless of gender. Women make up more than 14% of the nation's active duty military forces and are just as committed and capable of defending our freedom as men. I am honored to currently serve with women who have sacrificed for their country, including Representative Tulsi Gabbard and Representative Tammy Duckworth. "Today by removing the ban on women serving in combat, the Pentagon recognized the military excellence of our brave women in uniform and created a clearer path for women to advance in command. I applaud Secretary Panetta for his decision, and know that our military and our nation will be stronger because of it." ###
01.23.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after voting no on H.R. 325, the House GOPs plan to suspend the debt ceiling temporarily: "The plan put forward by House Republican Leadership today only kicks the can down the road, and ensures the threat of defaulting on our bills in the coming months. This temporary patch only creates future uncertainty for the market, the municipalities struggling through difficult times, and most importantly for the American people. "We saw what happened to the financial markets the last time the Republicans threatened to take the nation off the fiscal cliff. If we continue to deal with crisis after self-inflicted crisis, we will only add to the ransoming of programs like Social Security and Medicare for debt ceiling approval. The debt ceiling was raised 18 times under Ronald Reagan; it was raised seven times under George W. Bush. Since our country's formation, it is only under President Barack Obama that Congress has ever considered defaulting on our bills. "When Republican leadership uses the debt ceiling as a hostage, the ones held to ransom are the American people, their pensions and 401ks, and the municipal bond rate. We cannot continue to kick the can down the road. We should take the debt ceiling and all of this uncertainty off the table, and do what our nation has always done: pay our bills." ###
01.23.2013	Washington - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement during a U.S. House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee hearing on the debt ceiling: "The American people deserve the certainty that Congress will not play hostage politics with their pensions and their 401ks," said Congressman Larson. "While it is crucial that we find ways to deal with our national debt, we cannot forget the impact of holding the future of our economy hostage. We must remember how our actions will affect our cities and towns, like East Hartford, Connecticut, where I was recently told that if we cannot provide some certainty again, they will be forced to go out to the bond market in this very difficult time. "It is my hope that both sides of the aisle will work together to take away this uncertainty, and take the debt ceiling off the table." >>>>>WATCH LARSONS FULL REMARKS HERE<<<<< ###
01.22.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined House members in reintroducing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) in the 113th Congress. Larson is an original cosponsor of the legislation, which seeks to improve our national response to domestic violence and sexual assault. "Today's reintroduction of the Violence Against Women Act is a critical first step to ensuring that the vital programs it provides to victims and families are able to continue," said Congressman Larson. "The programs and services made possible by this act have successfully reduced rates of domestic violence, and have allowed the victims of violence to safely seek the help they need. Our nation has rightfully been focused on how to create safer communities, and the reduction of violence. Reducing domestic violence in homes helps us in those goals. "I am proud of our state and local leaders in Connecticut who for years have made domestic violence prevention a priority. The 113th Congress now has the opportunity to reauthorize this act, and continue our mission to end domestic violence." The Violence Against Women Act, first passed in 1994, provides funding and services for victims of domestic violence. The act also established new penalties for crimes related to domestic violence and violence against women, including interstate domestic violence and increased penalties for repeat sex offenders. Rates of domestic violence have decreased over 50 percent since VAWA was first passed. VAWA expired at the end of 2012 after passing with strong bipartisan support in the Senate last Congress. ###
01.22.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after President Barack Obama delivered his inaugural address: "Today President Barack Obama spoke for all Americans during his second inaugural address when he said that we must continue to improve our economy and our education system, strengthen our democracy, and care for those who need it most if we are to move forward as a nation. I am proud that he continued to honor the victims and families of Newtown, and that he has taken immediate action to make this nation safer for our children. Every child has the right to safety and a good education, regardless of where they live or how much money they have. "As the President said today, the economy is recovering. The recovery however has not been fast enough for many Americans who are still struggling to deal with debt or unable to find work. Congress must focus on job creation and job growth, which will help both our deficit and the economy. I applaud our President's call that we must move forward together if we are to solve our nation's biggest issues. Congress should heed these words in the 113th, and work together so that all Americans have the opportunity to succeed." ###
01.22.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.: "Our nation was forever changed by the life and work of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. A true champion of tolerance, Dr. King gave a voice to millions of Americans struggling against the horrors of inequality, and injustice. Throughout his extraordinary life, his message of peace was heard across the country. Today, that message rings louder than ever. Dr. King stressed the importance of the 'fierce urgency of now'. Let us remember these words as we take up the President's plan for protecting our children, and rededicate our work to bringing peace to all our communities." ###
01.17.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, joined Reps. Donna F. Edwards and Ted Deutch in announcing that members of the task force have joined in signing a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, urging them to hold a hearing on constitutional remedies to address the consequences of Citizens United. "As our last election proved, we must find ways to stop unregulated and undisclosed money in our elections," said Congressman Larson. "This year, the House Judiciary Committee has the opportunity to look at constitutional remedies to address the decision on Citizens United, and take the influence of money out of politics. Three years is too long to have the voice of ordinary Americans drowned out by mega-corporations, millionaires and billionaires." "January 21st marks the third anniversary of Citizens United - a dark day for democracy in our nation. It is imperative that Congress assess constitutional remedies to once-and-for-all close the door to unlimited corporate and individual spending on our elections. The House Judiciary Committee has the responsibility to hold hearings on this issue. The voices of the American people cannot afford to be drowned out by unlimited special interest money in another election cycle," said Congresswoman Donna Edwards. "Frustration over the rise of big money in politics spans the ideological spectrum because Democrats and Republicans alike understand that the ability of well-funded special interests to set the agenda in Washington threatens our very system of self-government," said Congressman Ted Deutch. "As a member of the House Judiciary Committee, I believe my colleagues and I have a duty to examine the constitutional crisis spawned by the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision, which has stripped Americans of the right to regulate spending in our elections." This Monday, January 21st, marks the three year anniversary of the Supreme Court Decision on Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission. The Task Force on Election Reform was created by Leader Nancy Pelosi to develop a legislative agenda for reforms to the electoral process under the D.A.R.E. (Disclose, Amend, Reform, and Empower) framework for the 113th Congress. Attached is the full text of the letter . Below you will find a list of those who signed on: Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards Congressman Theodore E. Deutch Congressman John Larson Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Congressman James P. McGovern Congressman Rush D. Holt Congressman Adam B. Schiff Congressman Chris Van Hollen Congressman Ed Perlmutter Congressman John A. Yarmuth Congressman Kurt Schrader Congressman George Miller Congressman David E. Price Congressman Robert A. Brady Congresswoman Susan A. Davis Congressman Raul M. Grijalva Congressman Keith Ellison Congressman John P. Sarbanes Congressman Rick Nolan ###
01.16.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the recent advertisement by the National Rifle Association: "The National Rifle Association has reached a new low, and should take down this ad immediately. I think most NRA members, like most Americans, would agree that using the President's children as the topic in an ad attacking our administration is abhorrent. The NRA should be ashamed of themselves for continually promoting a culture of fear, where people are assured the only way to be safe is to arm themselves. "Today the President underscored the concerns of our nation's youth, and stressed the importance of honoring the children and families affected by the tragedy in Newtown. There is no room for classless acts like this in our discussion on violence prevention, and as Democrats we understand that now is the time to find common sense ways to make our communities safer." ###
01.16.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, announced that four members of the task force introduced legislation yesterday aimed at removing the influence of wealthy donors from the electoral process. Recognizing the need to reform our broken campaign finance system, these proposals will amplify the voices of average Americans and rein in the influence of large dollar contributors. Congressman David Price and Congressman Chris Van Hollen reintroduced the Empowering Citizens Act, Congressman John Sarbanes reintroduced the Grassroots Democracy Act, and Congressman John Yarmuth and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree reintroduced the Fair Elections Now Act. "Today, members of the Task Force on Election reform introduced three thoughtful pieces of legislation intended to turn our electoral process back over to the American people," said Larson. "Now, through the framework of our Task Force on Election Reform, those members will work together to take the best parts of each proposal, and mold them into one bill that will help rid our campaigns of big money influence once and for all." Empowering Citizens Act The Empowering Citizens Act combines the ideas behind Reps. Price and Chris Van Hollen's (D-MD) Presidential Funding Act, which mends the small donor matching system for presidential campaigns, with a new title creating a similar small donor matching system for congressional elections. The bill also blunts the impact of Super PACs by strengthening anti-coordination rules to prohibit candidate-specific Super PACs from operating as arms of candidate campaigns. "The Empowering Citizens Act is designed to put elections back into the hands of ordinary Americans by empowering small donors and forbidding Super PACs from operating as arms of candidates' campaigns. I am dedicated to working with the other members of the Task Force on a comprehensive package that ensures that the people who finance our campaigns are the people we represent, and that our democracy gives every American the opportunity to hold elected officials accountable for their actions," said Congressman David Price. "House Democrats are committed to ensuring the voice of the average voter is not drowned out by the deluge of secret money that has flooded our elections," said Congressman Van Hollen. "Together with the DISCLOSE Act, the Empowering Citizens Act, the Grassroots Democracy Act, and the Fair Elections Now Act will help restore faith in the American democratic process. I applaud Congressman Larson and the entire task force for their continuing work on this important issue." Grassroots Democracy Act The Grassroots Democracy Act is a three-pronged reform proposal that empowers everyday Americans with a refundable tax credit to participate in campaign giving; amplifies the impact of grassroots donations with a multiple match framework to fund campaigns of grassroots candidates; and fights back against unlimited outside spending with a People's Fund, which provides additional financial support in races where the voices of grassroots candidates are being drowned out. "Congress' dependency on big money is corroding the institution's ability to process the will of the people," said Congressman Sarbanes. "We must pursue reforms that amplify the voice of the grassroots, giving our citizens and the candidates they support the tools needed to push back against moneyed interests. I look forward to working with my colleagues on the Task Force on Election Reform to craft the strongest bill possible to ensure that the voice of every American can be heard in our democracy." Fair Elections Now Act The Fair Elections Now Act (FENA) would provide public financing for Congressional campaigns, enabling small donors to play on the same field as special interests and encouraging a more diverse pool of candidates. The legislation is designed to leverage small-donor contributions by providing a 5-to-1 federal match of contributions below $100 from residents of a candidate's state in both the primary and general elections. The voluntary program would also provide grants to ensure that primary winners are competitive in general elections. "Special-interest money has corroded the public's confidence in our government and fueled the perception that Congress is for sale to the highest bidder," Congressman Yarmuth said. "Until we get big money out of politics, we will never be able to responsibly address the major issues facing American families. The public financing system this legislation establishes is critical to repairing our broken electoral system and rebuilding our trust with the American people." "American elections have gotten to be entirely too focused on raising and spending massive amounts of money. Politicians need to spend less time on the phone asking for contributions and more timetalking to the people they represent. The Fair Elections Now Act would take elections out of the hands of big donors and put it back where it belongs, with everyday Americans," said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree. The Task Force on Election Reform was created by Leader Nancy Pelosi to develop a legislative agenda for reforms to the electoral process under the D.A.R.E. (Disclose, Amend, Reform, and Empower) framework for the 113th Congress. ###
01.16.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passage of $50.5 billion in Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief funding by the U.S. House of Representatives, 79 days after Hurricane Sandy first hit the East Coast: "While I am pleased the bill providing relief from Hurricane Sandy passed and aide is on its way, tonight's vote underscores a more difficult problem that President Obama faces with recalcitrant Republicans in the House. While states like Connecticut and New Jersey continually answer the call to aid fellow Americans, tonight nearly 180 Republicans voted against the relief, including those from states that have also experienced natural disaster. The Republican controlled Congress has reached a new low when it places politics and ideology before American citizens in need of their nation's assistance. Holding the nation hostage, such as threatening to plunge the nation over the fiscal cliff yet again, continues to be the modus operandi of the Republican Leadership. "The bill we voted on tonight was about fellow Americans in need of assistance from their country. I commend Republicans like Chris Christie, Peter King, and Rodney Frelinghuysen who stood up for the their region and their nation. I cannot imagine voting against Hurricane relief for purely ideological and political reasons when fellow Americans need our help." The $50.5 billion package is the second to be passed following a January 4th vote on the first $9.7 billion portion of Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief. The original, Senate-passed $60.4 billion relief Package was previously cancelled by House Republican Leadership. ###
01.14.2013	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the bipartisan "Sandy Recovery Improvement Act" aimed at improving disaster recovery efforts: "Tonight the House showed what can be accomplished when both sides of the aisle work together. These reforms build on what we have learned from the widespread devastation caused by past storms, and will improve the recovery process to ensure disaster funding is provided for the victims of Hurricane Sandy in a timely and effective manner. I applaud Representatives Denham, Shuster, Holmes Norton, and Rahall for their efforts and hope that tonight's bipartisan spirit will carry into tomorrow's vote on much needed Hurricane Sandy Relief funding." ###
01.11.2013	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that Hartford HealthCare, St. Francis HealthCare Partners and ProHealth Physicians have established Accountable Care Organizations that have been selected to participate in the Medicare Shared Savings Program. Created under the Affordable Care Act, the Medicare Shared Savings Program aims to improve the quality of care that patients receive, and lower health care costs through increased coordination of care by providers. Accountable Care Organizations participating in the program that improve quality and reduce costs can share in the savings to Medicare. "Our seniors deserve the highest quality care from the Medicare they paid for," said Larson. "The Affordable Care Act contained important reforms to our health care system, like the Medicare Shared Savings Program, that will increase the coordination of care and improve quality for patients. I applaud Hartford HealthCare, St. Francis HealthCare, and ProHealth Physicians for their efforts to improve care for patients in Connecticut. As we move forward in building on the Affordable Care Act and strengthening Medicare, we must continue to be focused on reducing costs through the improvement of care for every American." Providers must create or participate in an Accountable Care Organization (ACO) in order to be eligible for the Medicare Shared Savings Program. Over time, savings as a result of reduced costs are shared with Medicare if the ACOs meet quality standards. Since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, over 250 ACOs have been created, serving more than 4 million patients nationwide. ###
01.11.2013	Hartford - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the re-hiring of Edmund Skowronek, who will return to the first district office to assume the role of Press Secretary following the departure of Chris Licata. Licata served as Larson's Communications Director since March of 2011. A native of the NYC-area, Licata recently accepted a position with the NYC-based public relations firm, Sunshine Sachs and Associates. "Ed has proven to be a valuable resource to both the district and Washington offices," said Larson. "His professionalism and work ethic will be assets as he continues to serve the first district." "I want to express my gratitude to Congressman Larson and his staff for giving me the opportunity to return to the district office," said Edmund Skowronek. "I am honored to take on this new role and continue working for the people living in the district I grew up in." Earlier this year Skowronek held the role of District Communications for the Office of Congressman Larson, and has worked in government affairs in Connecticut since 2011. A lifetime resident of Connecticut, he earned his Bachelor's Degree in Political Science from Southern Connecticut State University. ###
01.04.2013	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the first portion of the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief Package: "I am disappointed that the full package was not taken up. It is unprecedented that after a natural disaster people will have to wait this long on relief. $9 billion in flood insurance is helpful, but to hold up the entire package for political reasons makes little sense. It is my sincere hope that the House will work together to provide full relief to those living in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York who are dealing with the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy." Today's vote on the first portion of the package comes after House Republican Leadership cancelled votes on the Senate-passed $60.4 billion Hurricane Sandy Disaster Relief Package earlier this week. The first portion of the relief package provides a temporary increase in borrowing authority of $9.7 billion for FEMA's National Flood Insurance Program to make payments to home and business owners dealing with flood damage as a result of the storm. The House will consider the remaining $50 billion relief package on January 15th. ###
01.04.2013	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor's December employment report, which showed that while the economy added 155,000 jobs in December, unemployment remained at 7.8 percent: "Today's unemployment numbers should serve as a reminder to the American people of how little the Republican-controlled Congress has accomplished over the past two years. "While the American people have been struggling to find jobs and put food on their tables, Congress has been muddling through crisis after crisis of its own creation. From a near government shutdown and downgrading of the US credit rating in 2011 to the most recent fiscal cliff fiasco, it's clear that we have lost focus on what really matters to the American people - the simple dignity that comes from a job. "For more than a year I have called on House Republican leaders to turn their attention to the issue of job creation, and for more than a year my calls have been met with radio silence. In September of 2011, I introduced the President's plan for job creation, hoping that the Republican leadership could look past politics and do what was right for the American people. Unfortunately, their refusal to vote on the President's plan proved that it was never about the people, it was always about the politics. "Today, the nation's unemployment number stands at 7.8 percent, with Connecticut's unemployment remaining at 9 percent. That's more than 12 million Americans who struggled through the Holiday season, and will continue to struggle in 2013. As representatives of the people, we owe it to them to vote on a plan that will create jobs and get our economy back on track. Otherwise, what are we here for?" ###
01.03.2013	Washington - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Task Force on Election Reform, announced today that following the swearing in of the U.S House of Representatives, members of the Task Force on Election Reform introduced legislation aimed at strengthening our democracy by addressing several major problems with our electoral process. Congressman Chris Van Hollen reintroduced the DISCLOSE Act, and Congressman George Miller and Congressman James Clyburn reintroduced the SIMPLE Voting Act. "The urgent need to address flaws in the electoral system became even clearer after our most recent election," said Larson. "It is crucial that we work to end voter suppression and civil rights abuses, make it easier for citizens to cast ballots, and inject much needed transparency into the campaign finance system. These two bills are important and practical steps toward correcting the problems facing our electoral system, and I look forward to continuing to work with the task force on this effort to restore the government to the people." "I'm pleased today to reintroduce the DISCLOSE Act. Coupled with the SIMPLE Voting Act introduced by Congressmen Miller and Clyburn, we are making important strides to reform the electoral process by ensuring timely access to the ballot box and disclosure of secret outside spending. Voters deserve a political system that is fair, transparent, and accountable. These bills will help return our democratic process to the American people," said Van Hollen. "Americans shouldn't have to wait for hours and hours to cast a ballot – and the fact that they had to do so in the 2012 election is absolutely unacceptable. Voting is one of the most fundamental rights in our democracy and we must ensure that that right is protected," said Rep. George Miller. "The framers of the Constitution established a government determined and defined by the will of the people, shaped by the decisions of the voters, and sustained by free and fair elections. The SIMPLE Voting Act is one important step in the effort to restore the vision of the framers." Passed by the House in 2010, the DISCLOSE Act ensures greater transparency in the electoral process by requiring greater disclosure from corporations and organizations that make political expenditures. The SIMPLE Voting Act requires states to provide 15 days for early voting and ensure that no voter is forced to wait more than one hour in line to vote, and provides the Department of Justice with greater authority to enforce this law and bring civil action against states and jurisdictions that fail to comply with its provisions. The Task Force on Election Reform was created by Leader Nancy Pelosi to develop a legislative agenda for reforms to the electoral process under the D.A.R.E. (Disclose, Amend, Reform, and Empower) framework for the 113th Congress. ###
01.02.2013	Washington - Last night Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement upon learning the House Republican Leadership would adjourn the 112th Congress without taking up the Hurricane Sandy Aid relief package: "The American people deserve better from their government. "Earlier tonight, the House came together to approve a bipartisan package to help us avert the fiscal cliff. I had hoped that this bipartisan spirit would continue so that we could also take action to help the thousands of Americans still attempting to recover from Superstorm Sandy. Unfortunately, we've just learned that the Republican leaders have chosen to instead turn their backs on the affected states and adjourn the 112th Congress. "I am deeply disappointed in the Republican Leaders decision. Thousands of Americans in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York are struggling to recover from the most destructive storm to hit the East Coast in more than 80 years. The American people deserve the assurance that when disaster strikes, their government will be there to provide the assistance needed to rebuild and recover. Unfortunately, the Republican Leaders have proven that this is not the case. "Earlier this week, the Senate approved a bipartisan measure that would provide the funding needed for our states to recover. The House has an obligation to consider that legislation, and the Republican leadership's decision not to is deeply disappointing. "I hope they will reconsider. But whether in this Congress or the next, I will continue to fight for the aid our states need to recover." ###
12.29.2012	Hartford, CT - Following the passage of a Hurricane Sandy relief package by the United States Senate yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation released a joint statement calling on House leadership to vote on the bill: "As the House of Representatives prepares to return to session, we request that you immediately schedule a vote on the Senate-passed, bipartisan Hurricane Sandy relief package. "Earlier this year, Superstorm Sandy slammed into the East Coast devastating Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. Thousands of our constituents lost their homes and their livelihoods, and more than a hundred perished due to the storm. While we are only beginning the recovery process, it is clear that it will take years and significant support from the federal government for our communities to fully recover from this natural disaster. "The Senate-passed, bipartisan Hurricane Sandy relief package would provide our communities with the financial support needed to begin the recovery process and give our state leaders the certainty that they need to properly plan for the future. Allowing the 112th Congress to come to an end without acting on this critical legislation would be irresponsible and leave our constituents questioning whether the nation will support them in their time of need. "Members on both sides of the aisle understand the immediate need to provide relief for those dealing with the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy. We couldn't agree more. Now is the time to act." ###
12.28.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement following the President's remarks on the current fiscal cliff negotiations: "The President is right. People across America do their job every day and the Congress has a responsibility to do theirs. Hopefully the Senate acts on an agreement and Speaker Boehner then allows a vote on the House floor. "However, if agreement cannot be reached, both Harry Reid and John Boehner have an obligation to the American people to put the President's proposal on the floor and vote. "Irrespective of where you stand on the issue, the American people deserve an up or down vote on whether middle class taxes go up, and a fiscal cliff is avoided." ###
12.27.2012	Hartford, CT –Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the need for House Republican leadership to allow Congress to get back to work for the American people: "The fast approaching fiscal cliff, now only five days away, has already created uncertainty for many and threatens to raise taxes and cut services for millions. "In Connecticut, New York and New Jersey Americans and their families wait for the relief aide that will help them rebuild following the devastation of Hurricane Sandy. "And after an unprecedented tragedy in Connecticut that shook the nation to its core and one of the worst acts of violence in our nation, Congress has a responsibility to act on legislation ready to help prevent future violence. "I am prepared to do the job I was sent to Washington to do. It's my hope that House Republicans will answer the call of millions of Americans who more than ever need Congress to put partisanship aside, and get back to work." ###
12.23.2012	Originially published in the Hartford Courant on 12/23/12. By John Larson The harrowing and heartbreaking events of Newtown have left the state of Connecticut and the nation reeling from shock and grief. The tragic and senseless deaths of 20 schoolchildren and six teachers at Sandy Hook Elementary School are forcing us to re-examine how we protect our children. How is it possible that daily deaths from mass shootings in cities and suburbs have now become an acceptable norm? To do nothing in the face of continuous assaults on our children is to be complicit in those assaults. There may not be a panacea for the violence in our nation, but we must start the process and begin the longer and tougher conversations that need to take place. The President was clear and the dialogue is now engaged, politics be damned. The time to act is now. In the aftermath of this slaughter of innocents, there isn't a single parent in America or around the world who hasn't thought to themselves: Enough is enough. Requiring universal background checks for people purchasing guns and ammunition, and banning assault weapons and high capacity clips won't be enough. A comprehensive look at the systems that are in place to protect our children – including our mental health and youth violence programs – is a must. We need to make sure that we're providing the resources at the federal and local level, as well as ensuring that we're taking a complete look at our mental health system and closing the gaps that have been identified by both Democrats and Republicans. The bottom line is that it should not be harder to access mental health services than it is to procure an assault weapon. A mass shooting on this scale garners widespread attention and reminds us of how vulnerable we are to such attacks. But we should also remember that there are untold numbers of children in urban centers both here in Connecticut and across the country that live with the daily threat of gun violence, and this often goes unacknowledged. Every day those living in Hartford, Bridgeport, and New Haven see the devastating effects that violence and youth violence have in their communities. Even as Connecticut's overall crime rate decreases, our cities continue to have high rates of shootings, particularly among young people. We must find ways to prevent these acts of violence, and look at the effectiveness of programs and initiatives currently in place. Even though this process may seem painful to some, it doesn't compare to the pain of losing a child. In the current and past Congresses, my colleague Representative Bobby Scott (VA) has introduced the Youth PROMISE Act. This act seeks to develop a comprehensive response to youth violence through a coordinated prevention and intervention response, particularly in communities that face the toughest youth gang and crime challenges. What we need is an all-encompassing approach to crime prevention. It requires building coalitions of local law enforcement, school officials, court services, social services, health and mental health providers, foster care providers, and other community and faith-based organizations to develop a plan for implementing evidence-based prevention and intervention strategies. Nothing can change the tragic events of last week. But we can do everything in our power to prevent the loss of future life, whether as legislators, parents, or concerned citizens. There is no one answer to prevent future tragedies, but tougher gun laws, more robust community involvement and easier access to mental health services are areas where we can start. Congress needs to act or be complicit, but all Americans share this responsibility, and as such we should all work together – for ourselves and for our children.
12.21.2012	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the Republican leadership's decision to leave town without reaching a solution for the fiscal cliff: "For over a year we've asked House Republicans to bring up the President's jobs bill. "For months we've asked House Republicans to prevent a middle class tax hike. "For weeks we've asked House Republicans to find compromise on the fiscal cliff. "Now the Republican leaders have sent the House home because of their inability to compromise within their Conference. "Speaker Boehner is an honorable man and he knows we all must work together to avoid taking every American over the fiscal cliff. It's time to unite behind the President and demonstrate to the world that we can still govern." ###
12.21.2012	Washington - In a partial victory for military families struggling with autism, the final defense budget authorization for next year passed by the House yesterday includes a modified version of a provision authored by Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), which would require TRICARE – the military healthcare program – to provide greater access to behavioral health treatment for military kids with autism as part of a one-year pilot program. "Military families have continually sacrificed so much for our freedom, and deserve nothing less than our full commitment to them. So I am disappointed that, despite broad bipartisan support for amendments in both the House and Senate that would have permanently improved TRICARE policy for military families that have a child with autism, the final defense authorization only includes a one year pilot program to provide access to behavioral health treatment, including applied behavior analysis. The appeals of families like that of Sergeant Major William and Rachel Kenyon of Manchester, have not and will not go unheeded as we pursue a permanent fix. That said, I'm glad the bill authorizes enough funding for the pilot program to provide the care military families need next year, and I'm sure the pilot will make it clear that this is the right thing to do for our servicemen and women," said Larson. "I'm determined to continue fighting to ensure that our military families, especially those that have children with disabilities, are able to access the care their children need. I will be closely monitoring implementation of this program to ensure it provides access to treatments that families need and will continue to pursue a permanent fix in the upcoming Congress." "I especially appreciate the efforts of Senator Gillibrand who worked so hard to get an amendment passed in the Senate," Larson added, "and also for colleagues in the House like Reps. Joe Courtney, Tom Rooney and Walter Jones who have been such strong supporters of this effort and I know they will join me in continuing to work on behalf of these families." Specifically, the language included in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 (NDAA) creates a one-year pilot in TRICARE to provide greater access to a behavioral health treatment known as applied behavior analysis (ABA), which has been found to significantly help children that have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis. The bill requires the Department of Defense to start the program within 90 days and then to report back to Congress on the cost and efficacy of the program at the end of the pilot. Currently, access to ABA is limited by an annual dollar cap on coverage and is not available for the children of military retirees with TRICARE coverage. Larson introduced the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288) to make ABA available as recommended by doctors to all TRICARE families in response to the appeal of a constituent – Rachel Kenyon, the wife of Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon of the Connecticut National Guard and mother of two – who spoke out at an event about the many struggles that military families with children with autism face with their TRICARE coverage. The inclusion of a one-year pilot program in the conference report comes after both the House and Senate approved bipartisan amendments to the NDAA that would have permanently required coverage of ABA treatments for active military and military retiree families as a health benefit in TRICARE earlier this year. ###
12.17.2012	Washington – This evening, the Connecticut Delegation introduced a resolution that condemned the horrific attack on Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. and expressed support and prayers for those impacted by the tragedy. The resolution passed the Senate (S.Res. 621) and the House (H.Res.833) by unanimous consent. Text of the resolution is below: 112th CONGRESS 2ND SESSION S. Res.621/H.Res.833 Condemning the horrific attacks in Newtown, Connecticut, and expressing support and prayers for all those impacted by that tragedy. RESOLUTION Condemning the horrific attacks in Newtown, Connecticut, and expressing support and prayers for all those impacted by that tragedy. Whereas, on December 14, 2012, a mass shooting took place at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut; Whereas the people of the United States mourn the 26 innocent lives, including those of 20 children, that have been lost at Sandy Hook Elementary School in this unimaginable tragedy; Whereas the people of the United States will always remember the victims of the previous mass shootings that have occurred in the United States and stand in solidarity with the survivors; and Whereas the quick action of law enforcement officials and other first responders prevented. additional losses of life: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate– (1) condemns the senseless attack at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, on Friday, December 14, 2012; (2) offers condolences to all of the students, teachers, administrators, and faculty of Sandy Hook Elementary School, as well as their families, and recognizes that the healing process will be long and difficult for the entire Newtown community; (3) honors the selfless, dedicated service of– (A) the teachers, school administrators, school support staff, medical professionals, and others in the greater Newtown community; (B) the emergency response teams and law enforcement officials who responded to the attack; and (C) the law enforcement officials who continue to investigate the attack; and (4) remains committed to working together to help prevent tragedies like this from ever happening again. ###
12.15.2012	Hartford – Today Rep.John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the immediate need for a comprehensive approach to prevent future violence: "Yesterday our hearts were broken as we witnessed one of the worst tragedies in the history of Connecticut. The children and teachers whose lives were taken are in our thoughts and prayers and their families deserve space and privacy. They, along with the staff, first responders, and the community of Newtown deserve our continued support and prayers through this most difficult time. As a parent, the unspeakable fear has happened. May God help all those families get through. "President Obama is right. Friday was a day of mourning, but the time to act is now upon us. To do nothing in the face of continuous assaults on our children is to be complicit in those assaults. There may not be a single cure-all for the violence in our nation, however we must start the process and begin the deeper and longer conversations that need to take place. Politics be damned. Of the 12 deadliest shootings in our nation's history, half of them have happened in the last five years. And there is not a single person in America who doesn't fear it will happen again. It's time we recognize the danger and address it. "It's time for Members of Congress to act! Congress should be prepared to vote on requiring background checks for all gun sales, closing the terrorist watch list loopholes, and banning assault weapons and high capacity clips. Those measures don't solve all our problems, but they're a start. We also need to focus on our mental health care system. We need to support a better process for families and friends to share their concerns and fears with authorities about people's mental status, and begin to invest in the human infrastructure needed for effective prevention programs that create healthy children. The pattern is clear- action must be taken. To do nothing in the face of pending disaster is to be complicit. It's time to act. It's time to vote." ###
12.14.2012	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today following news of the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, CT: "There are no words to express the horror of this senseless violence aimed at our children in what should be a safe place of learning. My heart aches, having children of my own, to think of what the families of the victims must be going through. My thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims of this tragedy and I know everyone will come together to help the community in this time of need." ###
12.13.2012	Washington – To help families and businesses struggling to rebuild in the wake of Hurricane Sandy, U.S. Reps. John B. Larson (D-CT), Joseph Crowley (D-NY), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Michael Grimm (R-NY), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Jon Runyan (R-NJ) and Chris Smith (R-NJ) today announced legislation to provide tax relief to the victims of the devastating storm that caused widespread destruction throughout the Northeast. The Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2012, modeled after a similar bill passed into law in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, is aimed at providing tax relief for victims of Hurricane Sandy in areas designated as Federal Disaster Areas by the President. "As we continue to rebuild in the wake of one of the worst natural disasters to hit our region in generations, we must ensure that our communities have the resources they need to begin to put their lives together," said Reps. Crowley, DeLauro, Grimm, Larson, LoBiondo, Pascrell, Rangel, Runyan and Smith. "This bill is a crucial first step in bringing much needed tax relief to help families, communities and business in our region get back on track. We urge our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support this legislation to help in rebuilding the lives that have been devastated by this historic storm." The Hurricane Sandy Tax Relief Act of 2012 is sponsored by Rep. Pascrell Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ) and co-sponsored by Reps. Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Joe Crowley (D-NY), Jon Larson (D-CT), Scott Garrett (R-NJ), Lenard Lance (R-NJ), Michael Grimm (R-NY) and Jon Runyan (R-NJ). The legislation will compliment the federal government’s relief and recovery efforts by providing additional tax relief to businesses, individuals and municipalities affected by Hurricane Sandy, including: Individual Assistance: Waiver of Adjusted Gross Income limitation for theft/loss deduction, so individuals can deduct the cost of uninsured losses. Increase the limitation on charitable contributions for disaster relief. Look-back Provision for Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit, to allow a family in the affected region to opt to use their previous year's earnings to calculate their Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit. Allow taxpayers whose principal place of residence is in the Hurricane Sandy Disaster Area and who suffered a loss from Hurricane Sandy, to take distributions from retirement savings accounts with no tax penalty, provided such amount is repaid within three years. Business Assistance: Allowing businesses to expense the cost of disaster recovery. Allowing businesses to use Net Operating Loss to recover past tax payments or reduce future tax payments, if they are operating with no tax liability during the prescribed period. Increase in new markets tax credit for investments in community development entities serving Hurricane Sandy disaster areas. Allowing public utilities to reduce their tax liability when rebuilding or replacing assets damaged in the storm. Work Opportunity Tax Credits for displaced workers. Public and Municipal Assistance: A new state-by-state private activity bond allocation for Sandy-affected areas to rebuild docks and wharfs, commuting facilities, certain housing, water, sewage, and solid waste infrastructure, and facilities used to provide electric energy or gas. Housing Assistance: Increased allocation of the Low Income Housing Tax Credit for declared disaster areas. Waiver of certain mortgage revenue bond requirements, easing access to capital. # # #
12.12.2012	Washington – Rep. John Larson (CT-01) was joined by incoming Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-31), and incoming Caucus Vice Chairman Joe Crowley (NY-07) for a press avail after the weekly Democratic Caucus meeting today. Below is the transcript: Full Transcript: Rep. Larson: Well, good morning and we have just concluded our regular Democratic Caucus Meeting. I’m honored to be joined by Xavier Becerra, the future Chair of the Democratic Caucus and Joe Crowley its Vice Chair. Let me say, as we have said repeatedly since we have come back with the compression of time that exits and so much on the table, that it’s it a vitally important that we act. While we remain encouraged by some of the things that are going on, especially the number of Republican colleagues who have come forward and indicated that a common sense path forward, is to recognize that a $250,000 tax cut for everyone, including billionaires, is something that does not violate any pledge and will allow the Congress to move forward. Also, as we have reiterated here week in and week out, job creation equals deficit reduction. And the most important thing that we can do is put the country back to work. That is underscored by the problems that we face in the northeast, specifically, in the aftermath of Sandy. But if Chris Christie and President Obama can demonstrate the ability to come together work towards issues, streamline a process, to put the country back to work and help New Jersey, New York and Connecticut out, we ought to be able to do that. And we ought to be able to that in this Congress and in a timely basis. We’re disheartened to see that we’ve already given up Friday. We don’t know what the schedule is for next week and when we go home, most people at Augie and Ray’s in East Hartford say, sequestration? What about jobs? What are you guys doing down there? And the hard truth is, Speaker Boehner has a difficult task. I believe that he will succeed in bringing his Conference around and making sure they don’t take the nation over this fiscal cliff. We in our caucus remain prepared and stand behind our President and his proposals. Who has consistently put out there what is needed to help us move forward. I believe it was the Australian Prime Minister who said, America is one vote away from claiming dominance for the next century and the place where everybody will want to invest their money and watch this economy grow. It’s up to the United States Congress and frankly, it’s up to the House of Representatives to step up and to do the right thing. We’re encouraged by the number of people in the business community who are joining voices as well in saying, listen, let’s do the rational thing here. Let’s pass this tax cut, let’s put America back to work, let’s understand in the new year in a broader context, in a more comprehensive way, the whole issue of tax reform. And as we move towards the opening of the exchange, a Republican idea, that we can work towards further driving down the cost of healthcare and at the same addressing our national debt with the same concerns. These are all logical, practical things that the American people expect of their Congress and what Democrats remain focused on doing. With that, let me turn it over to the future Chair of the Democratic Caucus, Xavier Becerra. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I guess I’m going to repeat what I’ve said before. Let’s take, let’s take the Tom Cole deal. Republican member, our colleague, Tom Cole, from Oklahoma, has said to his colleagues take the 98% deal. Protect 98% of Americans from receiving a tax increase and allow the tax rates to return to what they were in Clinton years for the wealthiest 2%. That’s what the President has proposed. Our Republican colleague Tom Cole has said, take that deal. And we know that there are several other Republicans who are beginning to say the same thing. The difficulty is the Republican leadership in the House, once again, refuses to allow that legislation, which would provide that protection from a tax increase for 98% of Americans to come to the floor for a vote. And so I guess what we would do is repeat to Speaker Boehner. Mr. Boehner, take the 98% deal let the House of Representatives work its will with the vote. I’m certain, that that bill, providing tax relief for 98% of Americans would pass. In fact, I’m so sure that it would and I bet you, John Boehner can’t refute that statement and would not be willing to say, no, that that bill would not pass if it were put on the floor of the House for a vote. Two thirds of the American public, we’re learning now, object to way Speaker Boehner is handling these negations. Two thirds. We also know that three fourths of Republicans object to having politicians sign pledges to special interests not to raise taxes whatsoever, rather than follow a Congressional pledge of allegiance to the United States of America. And we know that by an overwhelming number, eighty five percent of the American people, Republicans, Democrats and Independents, people object to politicians who sign these special interest pledges. And so it seems like it’s time for us to move forward. What’s at stake? Well, we’re learning, beginning to learn, the American people are beginning to hear what’s at stake in this debate about Republicans protecting the wealthiest 2%. A gentleman, who is going to benefit dramatically by these Bush tax breaks, Sheldon Adelson, the CEO of LVS, it is being reported, is probably going to receive about a $1.2 billion advance from his company on dividends that he is likely to declare. $1.2 billion. He is likely to save about $340 million in taxes, as a result of the Bush tax breaks. $340 million, for one individual by claiming early dividends, through the Bush tax breaks. You can’t find 340 million Americans in this country, but one man is going to receive a tax break of over $340 million, as a result of the Bush tax breaks. That’s what’s at stake, that’s why Republicans are holding up this middle class legislation because there are people, like Mr. Adelson, who will profit handsomely through the Bush tax breaks which, the President has said should be allowed to expire for those top two percent of Americans. And so, the reality is we have a solution, we’ve had a solution all along it’s just a matter of letting the people who are elected to represent the American public, vote on a bill that has already bipartisanly passed the Senate and is now before the House of Representatives. Mr. Speaker, put the bill on the floor. Let’s take the 98% deal as your own colleague, our colleague, Republican member Tom Cole has said, it’s time for us to move forward, give the American people some predictability about what we are going to do and American businesses some predictability about what we are going to do and let’s continue to work to resolve the other issues where we don’t agree, but where we do agree, on protecting the middle class, let’s move forward. And with that, let me yield to the future Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, our colleague from New York, Joe Crowley. Rep. Crowley: Thank you Xavier, thank you John. Surprised to see so many members of the press corps here today because there is such an enormous calendar before the Congress today legislatively. I know we have a vote on the previous question coming up, I’m sure you’re all very interested in that, as well as a journal vote. I’m sure at some point and time today – there may be an adjournment vote at some point as well you all will probably want to cover as well. So we’re just overly taxed here, it’s only 10:15 and I’m already very, very tired. I can’t even imagine what you’re going through right now. But I say that, in somewhat jest. Because there are an enormous number of things that we have to accomplish before the end of the year and we have a list of them right here in front of me. Not the least of it, which, the Violence Against Womens Act, for instance. You know, I think the Americans hear about that bill, they know about the bill and the importance thereof, they don’t necessarily see the relevance between that legislation and the fiscal cliff. And they ask a question, why can’t we at least do that? Why can’t we do the farm bill? They don’t necessarily see the relevance again to the fiscal cliff, but there are plenty farmers and ranchers asking the question why can’t we get that done? The AMT Patch may be a part, a part and parcel with issues relating to tax down the road that may get fixed in a broader bill, but why can’t we give Americans peace of mind today? By the end of next year this tax cycle they will be – the AMT will be diverted from their table, it will have an enormous impact once again, on the middle class. You know, we all come here to do the job - if we’re elected to do and it is very frustrating for us when we come here and the see the lack of progress, not only last week, but this week again. Moving forward there seems to be very, very little happening here legislatively and time is wasting away. We’re losing, every day we hear, another opportunity to actually get things accomplished for the American people. That was one of the biggest things I heard about when I was running for re-election this year; I’m sure my colleagues did as well, that the American people want us to get down to doing the work of this country. Negotiations though, cannot be one way streets and we’re not all – none of us are privy to necessarily, the conversations that have been going on between the White House and Speaker Boehner’s office, but we’re all getting trickling of information coming out. And it appears to me that President is willing to negotiate and continues to, to move that cannot be sustained, the Republicans need to come to the table now and get a deal with our President and with Senate leaders to, to avert going over the fiscal cliff. Economists not only from around the country, but from around the world are saying that a failure to get a deal done – allow for us to go over the cliff, will have enormous impacts, not only on the economy of the United States, which we have all head, but around the world as well. And so it’s time for our, our colleagues on the Republicans side of the aisle to really get to work. Do the things we can accomplish today; you know, walk and chew gum at the same time. Continue those negotiations, but get something done and stop the charade of having to be here just for the sake of being here and not getting anything done. Rep. Larson: Thank you. We’ll take some questions. Q: Can you share with us any of the trickle out that you just talked about? Rep. Larson: The trickle out.. (Laughter) Q: The Congressman mentioned details were trickling out, could you please share? Rep. Larson: Well I think what the Congressman was referring to is we hear the same kind of news that all of you are privy to, that - which is subject to rumor, but of course, the President did make yet another adjustment in going from $1.6 trillion to $1.4 trillion in terms of the revenue that’s anticipated and the Republicans have remained the same. Let me, let me say this. You know, we recognize and I think for the public, that the difficulty that Speaker Boehner finds himself in. And both Xavier and Joe have addressed that. I mean, there are some here in this building who have taken a pledge to Grover Norquist as opposed to upholding their pledge to the Constitution. And that pledge apparently prevents them from compromise and so compromise has become a very negative term in the Republican Conference. That's unfortunate. Now that is not true of all Republicans and I think increasingly, both from the outside interests—and again, let me point out so many in the business community who are coming forward and recognizing that this makes sense. I do not believe that the Republican leader, Speaker Boehner, or their leadership will take this country over a fiscal cliff. And the American people, as pointed out by both Xavier and Joe, have seen too much of this. We saw it with the debt ceiling debacle and seeing out bonds downgraded. We don't want to sit here and watch as the market starts to fall off because of Congressional inaction. We do have an opportunity to move forward. As Xavier has pointed out, we have bills on the floor, ready to go, bipartisanly adopted in the Senate already that the President could put his signature on immediately. Let's act on that and then come back in January with a new Congress and take on the larger issues that we know still face the country. But demonstrate to the world that we can come together as a governmental body and agree and resolve not everything, but resolve a very important issue of fairness and equity as we move forward and deal with both revitalizing our economy and dealing long-term with out national debt. Q: Mr. Larson, I understand in the President's budget there are cuts to Medicaid that are about $100 billion over 10 years. Do you support those cuts? Rep. Larson: Well, until we see what those cuts are, it'd be hard for us to do that. But listen: you know, we recognize, and as we've already demonstrated, that—we've made cuts in Medicare already. We understand that as long as cuts do not impact beneficiaries—for example, I think as Mark Bertonlini from the Aetna pointed out, we see so much in waste and inefficiency that goes on in terms of the cost of healthcare delivery systems, that those are the areas that impact both the costs of Medicaid and Medicare that we think ought to be adjusted. Where Democrats are rock solid is we don't think we should be impacting beneficiaries. On CSPAN this morning, a lady called in. She said she's earning $22,000 a year. That is the average of what a Medicare recipient receives. And she talked about the other costs that are rising around her. They simply cannot afford that. We understand that. We, like the President, also understand, though, that within the totality of the system and the impact on outside sources, yes, there can continue to be savings and efficiencies and cuts that can be made. But we're not going to—you know, we won't do it blindly; we'll do it with—going in full-well of what we're focusing on. Q: Well, just a follow-up on that: does that mean eligibility age? That's one of the things being discussed a lot. That seems like something, though, would affect beneficiaries. Is that one of the— Rep. Larson: That's a simple matter of math. And the math just simply doesn't work. And so when you look at this objectively, the math doesn't work. I mean, you can talk about it, but that's the hard fact and our Leader has been very clear about that and her message. And so have the economists and, frankly, actuarials that have taken a look at that as well. So— Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman. Rep. Larson: Yeah, go ahead, Xavier. Rep. Becerra: If I could just add one thing. Where's the balance? Why is it that a senior on an income of $22,000 has to forgo two years of Medicare that he or she has been paying for for decades because Republicans want to raise the eligibility age for Medicare from 65 to 67 when Republicans continue to protect folks like Mr. Adelson who's going to $340 million in tax breaks? That's not the profit, that just what he's going to save on the taxes he would otherwise pay. And so for us, it's a question of balance. We're willing to make sure that everyone in America sacrifices a little, even those who've been struggling. I think most Americans would say, "Hey, I'm struggling but I'll put in my fair share." But we haven't heard Republicans yet get off the dime of saying they have to protect Mr. Adelson's $340 million tax break that that $22,000-a-year-income senior will never get. And so for us it's an issue of balance. We're willing to talk about everything, but we need it to have balance. Rep. Larson: Joe. Rep. Crowley: I'll just add another point as well, and I—just to piggyback on what Xavier has just said. When we look at what happens to those individuals who will be 65, 66, up to 67 who would then be disenrolled or not eligible to be enrolled until they're 67, what happens to those individuals? They need to continue to work. What happens to the company or the small business they work for? They would continue to have to contribute towards their healthcare benefits as well. So it actually can put individuals who right now are borderline in poverty into poverty, become reliant upon the states again for Medicaid, another burden to the federal government through the Medicaid system. So this easy math for the short-term, in the long-term can have incredible consequences to the federal government as well that we ought to be thinking about. Rep. Larson: One more question. Well thank you all very much— Q: Sorry. Just to kind of continue on this conversation, what about something, you know, like CPI that could mathematically have a difference in shrinking the rate of growth rather than cutting? You wouldn't be cutting benefits to beneficiaries, you would be shrinking it. Rep. Larson: But again—well, there's a whole series of math with respect to that as well. But let me go back to what the—what Xavier said. It's a question of balance. Look: an election took place. There was a campaign in that election where it was very clear what was at stake. Both in terms for beneficiaries of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the Affordable Healthcare Act as well as a specific plan to raise taxes, going back to the Clinton-era, where we had 16 consecutive quarters of growth, on 2 percent of the public who have done extraordinarily well. And so we've already made $1.6 trillion in cuts. There has been not one cent—not one cent—raised from revenue. And so the beneficiaries who call in are saying, "Wait a minute. Are you serious? We just had an election. You're saying that you want to see more from me as a beneficiary while a minority protects two percent of the people from having to pay their fair share? It's just simply not fair." And that's why so many Republicans are coming forward, so many people in the business community. And understand: beyond the fairness and the balance of this all—and listen, we get it, this isn't in and of itself a panacea, but it's a question of balance, it's a question of fairness, and the question of being able to move forward as a body. Rep. Becerra: You struck a chord with question, and so—Republicans have proposed that to try to reduce deficits, that we cut the COLA that seniors get in Social Security. The cost-of-living adjustment, the COLA, that they get. In 2013, over 50 million Americans will receive a COLA increase of about $21 a month on average, right? Some seniors will get less, because they don't make the average amount of Social Security benefits, others will receive a little bit more. But if you take all those 50 million-plus Americans who are receiving Social Security benefits—which they paid for during decades of work—they will on average get about a $21 COLA increase. Republicans are proposing that we cut that COLA increase of $21 a month on average in order to be able to preserve the tax rates that millionaires and billionaires are paying. On average in 2013, a millionaire will get about a $75,000 tax break that that senior and 98 percent of—the rest of America will never get. And as I mentioned, Mr. Adelson, if he files for those dividends will get a tax break of $340 million. One guy, one time, for one company. No one with a straight face could ask why Democrats would agree to cut the COLA for seniors, the $21 COLA for seniors, while we have multi-millionaires and billionaires who are getting millions of dollars in tax breaks. It's a matter of fairness. The President calls it balance, I'll call it fairness. A lot of folks have given a lot to this country, including those folks who are on Social Security, and we owe it to them because they believed in our country enough to contribute their tax money to Social Security to do this the right way. And so my final point is this: whenever Republicans try to inject Social Security—to cut Social Security to balance, to take care of these deficits, I hope you all will ask them: why should Social Security and the millions of Americans who have contributed to Social Security be asked to take cuts in their benefits in Social Security, when in fact, in the lifetime of Social Security, some 77 years, Americans through their taxpayer money—through their own taxes, through the payroll tax—have contributed over $14 trillion to the Social Security system? In those same 77 years, Americans have only taken out through benefits $13 trillion in Social Security benefit payments. That's a trillion dollars that has never been used by Americans of hard cash that was paid through workers' taxes. Why, then, is Social Security being targeted for deficit reduction if it never once has contributed a single penny to these deficits and the debt that our country faces? That we think is not only unbalanced and unfair, it's cruel. Rep. Crowley: If I could just add a point to that. You know, Social Security is one of the legs of retirement. And for people who've made proper investments and have pensions and have other means by which to live, the issue of an adjustment to the cost-of-living for Social Security isn't as meaningful as it is to the 33 percent who rely upon Social Security to survive. If any of you have had the opportunity when you were on the campaign trail following one of us or maybe even the presidential campaign trail, and you're in a senior center as we all are, inevitably, one of the first questions after we talked about something else is, "Are we going to get a COLA increase for Social Security?" Because it's that meaningful to these people. Without it, they have to adjust their lives. The lease amongst us, who have the least, who have to worry about an increase in their rent every year, or have to worry about their ability to afford their medications. We'll see, inevitable, and increase in Medicare Part B. So to simply talk about chained CPI as a way to fix the problem when, quite frankly, Social Security's off the table—it's already been said by the President—and when Social Security's not a contributing factor to the problems we're having today I think is just wrong-headed and moving us once again off the focus and direction of what needs to be done, and that is to get this tax cut for the 98 percent of Americans passed and move forward. Rep. Larson: Thank you everybody. # # #
12.10.2012	Washington — Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Connecticut’s Congressional Delegation today applauded the federal government’s conditional approval of a state plan for a health insurance exchange. Connecticut was one of six states to receive approval today and is expected to begin selling health plans through the exchange on October 1, 2013. “We congratulate Governor Malloy and his team on the approval today of Connecticut’s planned health insurance exchange,” Senators Joe Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal and Representatives Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Joe Courtney and Jim Himes and Senator-Elect Chris Murphy said in a joint statement. “This exchange will provide Connecticut individuals and small businesses with access to competitive group rates, lower administrative costs, and more quality choices for their health care. We look forward to working with the Governor on the full implementation of our state’s exchange.” ###
12.10.2012	Washington – This afternoon Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal and Reps. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Chris Murphy (CT-05) announced a federal $170,000 grant aimed at helping the Central Connecticut Regional Planning Agency (CCRPA) create an ongoing “disaster resilience plan.” Under the terms of the grant, provided by the Economic Development Administration, CCRPA will conduct a study to identify vulnerable framework in the region’s transportation network, flood control, and power generation and transmission systems. The grant was issued in response from damage caused by Hurricane Irene in fall of 2011. The lawmakers issued the following statement in support of the grant announcement: “Over the last year we have seen firsthand the destruction Superstorm Sandy, Winter Storm Alfred and Hurricane Irene have caused throughout our communities. With the possibility of these types of storms becoming more common thanks to the effects of climate change, it is critical that Connecticut is prepared. Nobody can prevent or predict when these storms will hit, but thanks to this grant CCRPA is taking the first step to ensure that Connecticut is ready.” ###
12.08.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that two School-Based Health Centers will be receiving grants to help enhance and expand their ability to provide health services in the East Hartford area. East Hartford Community HealthCare, Inc. and Integrated Health Services, Inc. will be receiving $410,924 and $315,566 respectively. "Connecticut's school-based and community health centers bring vital medical services to our most vulnerable populations," said Larson. "This funding will help thousands of underserved children, adults, and families receive comprehensive healthcare vital to their well being. I am glad to see this funding go to East Hartford Community HealthCare and Integrated Health Services, and I look forward to seeing them continue to improve the overall health of our communities." East Hartford Community HealthCare will use the funding to enhance its school dental program and mobilize a full-service dental van to address the dental needs of students and families who lack transportation. Integrated Health Services will use the funding to open three new School Based Teaching Centers in East Hartford and to purchase medical, dental, and administrative equipment to help improve quality of care. ###
12.05.2012	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal today to applaud President Barack Obama’s signing of the “The Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act” into law last night. The bill, introduced by Congressman Larson in 2010, and sponsored by Senators Lieberman and Blumenthal, will create $1 and $5 coins that will honor Twain’s legacy and fund institutions that honor his legacy such as the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford. “Mark Twain was one of the world’s greatest writers and holds a unique place in the telling of America’s story,” Congressman Larson said. “We in Connecticut are proud to have been able to call Twain one of our own and institutions such as the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford do a terrific job in highlighting his life and work. These coins will reintroduce Twain to a new generation and help ensure that his work is never forgotten.” “Mark Twain contributed to the spirit of our great nation, and just like the Mark Twain House and the historic Nook Farm neighborhood, these commemorative coins will keep the spirit alive for generations to come,” said Senator Lieberman. “Like many American boys and girls, I grew up reading about Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer, and I'm so proud to contribute to the preservation of the legacy of this great literary figure." "Mark Twain is an American legend and deserves to have his legacy preserved and protected for years to come. I was proud to honor his great work by introducing the Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act with my Connecticut colleagues. I wish to thank Congressman Larson in particular for his leadership on this historic piece of legislation, and President Obama for signing the bill into law today in support of the history of our great state," said Senator Blumenthal. The coins are scheduled to go into circulation in 2016 and will feature a gold $5 coin and $1 silver coin featuring Twain’s likeness. "The signing of the Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act is an affirmation of the great regard in which Mark Twain is held in the hearts of all Americans,” said Patti Phillippon, Interim Executive Director of The Mark Twain House & Museum. "We are greatly pleased that this honor will enable us to continue to preserve his legacy for our many visitors and friends. We particularly want to thank Representative Larson, who with Representative Luetkemeyer of Missouri was co-sponsor of this bill in the House, and the hard work of the Senate sponsor, Dick Blumenthal, and his colleague Senator Joe Lieberman.” According to the Treasury department, 100,000 of the $5 coins and 500,000 $1 coins will go into circulation. # # #
11.30.2012	Washington – The U.S. Senate passed an amendment Thursday co-sponsored by U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), to extend behavioral treatment for military children with autism spectrum disorders and other disabilities. Authored in the House by Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), the “Caring For Military Kids With Autism Act” was adopted as an amendment to the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and passed by the Senate Thursday night. The House of Representatives passed the amendment in that chamber’s version of the NDAA last spring. The legislation was inspired by Rachel and Command Seargent Major William Kenyon of Manchester. The military health insurance program, TRICARE, does not currently adequately cover Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) under basic entitlements, a recommended treatment for autistic individuals. The parents of a child with autism, Rachel and Command Seargent Major Kenyon attended a meeting with Congressman Larson in West Hartford in 2011 where they first brought the problem to the Congressman’s attention. “The Passage of this amendment is the next step in getting the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act to become law and is a tremendous victory for all of our military families, especially Rachel and Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon,” Larson said. “It is the tireless advocacy of individuals like the Kenyons and Shannon Knall who have shown us once again that some of the best ideas originate outside of Washington by passionate citizens. I want to thank Senators Lieberman, Blumenthal and Gillibrand for helping carry this legislation through the Senate.”“We owe a debt of gratitude to these brave families who have made tremendous sacrifices in service to our country. These heroic families should never be forced to bear the additional financial, emotional and physical burden of choosing between critical behavioral treatments for their children or other vital family expenses,” said Blumenthal. The Extended Care Health Option (ECHO), available only to active duty personnel, does cover the therapy but caps coverage at $36,000 a year. The cap is only enough to cover 6 to 11 hours of therapy a week, well below the medically recommended treatment level. The amendment would lift the cap and require TRICARE to cover behavioral treatment for developmental disabilities, including autism. The amendment also provides access to critical care for 23,000 military children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders and other disabilities and more than 100 Connecticut families who without adequate coverage have been forced to pay out of pocket for necessary medical expenses or forgo care altogether. In 2010 Connecticut implemented legislation that mandated that insurers cover the cost of diagnosis and treatment of autism. However, that legislation did not assist Connecticut military families covered under TRICARE. “We know that early intervention leads to the most successful future for a child with autism, and every child deserves an opportunity to be successful. Allowing a child with autism access to evidence-based medical treatment allows for a brighter future for that child, and every child deserves that,” said Shannon Knall, Connecticut Advocacy Chair for Autism Speaks. Command Sergeant Major William Kenyon was serving his second tour in Afghanistan when his now six-year-old daughter was diagnosed with autism. With 26 years of active duty in the CTARNG 102nd Infantry, Kenyon and his wife Rachel continue to balance their service to this country with the needs of their daughter. But despite evidence-based knowledge that early behavioral treatment intervention can positively impact the lives of children with autism, the Kenyon’s TRICARE coverage was of little assistance. “For decades, military families have experienced the same rise in autism prevalence as the civilian population. In recent years, we have watched as 42 states have moved toward insurance reform and now the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) program has 67 plans in 22 states that are offering appropriate autism treatments as recognized by the American Academy of Pediatrics and other leading health organizations around the world. The military family falls farther behind while TRICARE refuses to incorporate these proven standards of care for the military child with autism. Thousands of military families will now anxiously await the implementation of this critical legislation so that their dependents with autism can finally receive the best practice care they are entitled to by their very own service to our country,” stated Rachel Kenyon. The bipartisan amendment was introduced under the 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) bill. The amendment was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and was also co-sponsored by Senators Joe Lieberman (I-Conn.), Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), John Kerry (D-Mass.), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Mark Begich (D-Alaska), Scott Brown (R-Mass.), and Marco Rubio (R-Fla.). ###
11.29.2012	Washington- Today, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ), and Joe Crowley (D-NY), all members of the tax writing Committee on Ways and Means, announced they are working on legislation in concert with Governors from New Jersey, New York and Connecticut to provide tax relief to the victims of Hurricane Sandy. The legislation, modeled after a similar bill passed into law after Hurricane Katrina, is aimed at providing tax relief for victims of Hurricane Sandy throughout areas designated as Federal Emergencies by the President. “With a level of destruction not seen from a storm in the North East since ’38, we need to respond as quickly as possible to help the millions of Americans affected by Hurricane Sandy," said Larson. "This bill is a good first step that will bring much needed relief to people and businesses who desperately need it. I hope our colleagues will recognize the urgency of getting this done." "There are thousands of people who are suffering in our communities as a result of Hurricane Sandy," said Rangel. So many have lost their lives, homes, businesses and jobs. This tax relief is just a small part of the recovery efforts and is absolutely necessary. We must act now so that the benefits will be available when the individuals and companies fill their 2012 tax returns." "Looking around at the destruction caused by Hurricane Sandy, it is obvious it will take years to rebuild what was lost," said Pascrell. "One of the first steps we can take is to provide tax relief to the victims of this storm. It will help in rebuilding the lives and businesses that have been devastated by this historic storm." “There is no question that the families and businesses affected by Hurricane Sandy have a long, tough road ahead of them,” said Crowley. “Millions of people lost so much as a result of this devastating storm, and this legislation will help provide some relief as they begin the daunting challenge of piecing their lives back together.” Hurricane Sandy, which made landfall south of Atlantic City, New Jersey on Oct. 29, left millions of residents and businesses without power for days, resulting in billions of dollars in personal loss and infrastructure damage throughout the North East. ###
11.28.2012	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA) for a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting this morning on the need for Congress to focus on what they agree on by passing the middle class tax cuts. You can watch the video here. Full transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning. Is everybody set? Well I thank you, and we had yet another Caucus, where we were fortunate that Gene Sperling from the White House today, continuing to talk about the importance of making sure we put this nation back to work because we know and continue to underscore that job creation equals deficit reduction. And that clearly Democrats and Republicans both agree that we need to put the country back to work. Democrats would like to underscore the need for infrastructure. In the Northeast we are still reeling from the effects of Sandy and know that pleas of Governors like Malloy, Cuomo, and Christie all are calling for us to focus on infrastructure that’s not only needed in a devastated northeast, but clearly across this nation. One only has to read about the situation of roads and bridges to understand the importance of infrastructure investment. And clearly people need to go back to work. That’s something positive that we all agree on that can be done and should be done, but as we noted today, there are no votes in the United States Congress the House of Representatives today. We also agree and emphasize this again, as did Gene Sperling. Everyone and we mean everyone should get $250,000 in tax breaks. Everyone. And so that means that even billionaires get that first $250,000 and everybody is in agreement on that. The Republicans don’t want to see the middle class go without this tax cut. So where we disagree, let us push that off. Where we agree let us embrace. And further we discussed again, the long term effects of our deficit. Which are directly tied to healthcare. But the work that has been done in the Congress as it relates to constructing an exchange, that will take place in 2014 and go into effect and the tools that we provided initially. On a concept that by its very nature was one designed by Republicans, that there is ample room for us to tackle the unbelievable rise in cost of healthcare to 17% of our gross domestic product. By focusing on dropping those costs. Most recently, Mark Bertolini of the AETNA came out and said very clearly, not only if we drop those costs would make healthcare more affordable we would also deal with balancing our national debt. So these are all very constructive areas that we all should agree to and that the American public wants us to pursue. We remain optimistic because of the way that the President has gone out there and is selling this concept not in only in White House meetings but out to the general public. I commend Leader Boehner, Speaker Boehner, for setting the appropriate tone within the Conference and yes, we know that there are differences in both the Caucus and the Conference, but it’s the common thread that should unite us and allow us to move forward in a way that will both, put the country back to work, provide for deficit reduction and deal long term with the concept of debt reduction, while allowing Americans to be fully insured and covered under their healthcare. That is why we are optimistic we would like to see more work effort here, but, we are remain optimistic as we go forward. Now, tomorrow we will have another Caucus meeting and an election and it will be my high honor at that point to turn the gavel over to Xavier Becerra, who will be the next Chairman of the Democratic Caucus. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman thank you very much. And it will be a pleasure tomorrow if I am successful to succeed all the work and doing all the work that you have done over the last four years as our Chairman and I very much look forward to trying to come close to the success that you’ve had in being the Chairman of our great Democratic Caucus. I want to reiterate what our Chairman just said. We had a great, it was a great meeting. Folks are back after Thanksgiving and we wish everyone in America a great Thanksgiving. It was tough for some folks from Hurricane Sandy, but we hope that every single American in this country found a way to celebrate Thanksgiving with family and friends and loved ones. But we had a group of members, including some of our new members, who were very excited and very optimistic. I believe, Mr. Chairman as you said, that we leave the room truly believing that we can get this work done before December 31st. In fact, I think we leave the room today in the morning, believing there is no reason why we can’t get our work done. So, just a couple of points. Before I make those two points. A bit of context. Four years ago where were we? If check the records you will find that four years ago in the month of November 2008, America bled 797,000 jobs, 797,000 Americans lost their jobs four years ago. Last month’s jobs report 184,000 new jobs created in this country. Not as many as we want, but we are not losing jobs and we are certainly not hemorrhaging hundreds of thousands of jobs the way we were four years ago. We’re on the move, we’re making progress and as the President keeps saying, but we got to do more. And so this is not the time to put your foot on the break of economic recovery and we would hope that our Republican colleagues would join with us and do exactly as our chairman just said. And that is where we have agreement, let’s move forward and there is clear agreement among Democrats and Republicans that we have near unanimous if not unanimous support for trying to move forward on making sure that the middle class is not impacted by the December 31st deadline. And we can then deal with those, the 2% wealthiest Americans and how we deal with them in terms of the tax rates, but first, first, let’s take our foot off the economic break and let this economy continue to build. It seems a little disorienting and a little disconcerting, to hear that there may be some people in this Congress who put their pledge to a special interest ahead of their pledge of allegiance to this country. And while we are beginning to see some cracks in that cement block that is the special interest group that has gotten these Republican members to sign these no tax pledges. There aren’t that many. We hear a high ranking Republican in House talking about telling his colleagues to join with President Obama to move forward in preserving the tax rates for the middle class. In fact, actually, as the Chairman said, for everyone including Warren Buffet, Ross Perot. They would get the tax relief for the first $250,000 of their income as well. We agree with that. We hear some Republicans now calling this pledge handcuffs, that keep them from moving forward and so we would hope that in that in this short period we have before December 31st, we would not let a pledge to a special interest supersede a pledge to the United States of America a pledge of allegiance we’ve made to our country. And finally, I think it goes without saying. Once again the American people are way ahead of the politicians. The American people by two thirds agree with President Obama that we must have a balanced approach to solving our deficit issues and moving towards economic growth and job creation. Two thirds. And if there were a vote by the American public there would be a landslide in favor of providing for the two percent wealthiest Americans to pay a little bit more in taxes to help us get to that point of a balanced approach. A landslide victory. Including Republicans in America who agree with that and so there is no reason to delay. We think we can move forward. The reason there is optimism coming out of this Democratic Caucus is that we can get this done is because the reality is it’s not rocket science we can get it done. So Mr. Chairman, I think whether it’s our current Chairman John Larson or our future Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, whoever gets to lead this Caucus knows that we’ve got an enthusiastic group of committed Representatives in this country ready to get the job done. Rep. Larson: Thank you. Questions? Q: Congressman, if the Republicans are willing to step up and raise revenue will House Democrats provide votes to cut benefits to programs like Medicare and Medicaid? Rep. Larson: Well, let me say that, clearly, as Gene Sperling was saying today, the President is willing to look at what they are going to put forward in terms of revenues, but that hasn’t been forthcoming, shall we say. But where the President has been very clear in terms of the impact on beneficiaries and beneficiaries are the people who are recipients Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. We believe and I think most would agree that Social Security is not responsible for the deficit and clearly shouldn’t be on the table for discussion. With regard to the so called entitlements. Look I come from Hartford, Connecticut. This is a matter of insurance and it’s a matter of actuarial assumptions and I think when you look at things in terms of insurance and not entitlements, people where I come from say what a minute; I paid for this that is my insurance that I paid for. Now, there are though, actuarial assumptions that you can make, life span, various of elements, etc, wellness, exercise, preventative care, etc. A number of the core things that were build into the affordable care act that will allow us to reduce costs significantly. I’ll give you a perfect example, two. Reuters said in 2009, there is more than $750 billion annually in inefficiencies, in lack of coordination, in waste and fraud. For the first time in the nation’s history, Medicare crime superseded drug and prostitution crime. Report by Reuters. Chairman of the AETNA came out and said if there is $750 billion annually in terms of savings that can be achieved with the appropriate tools that we’ve put forward. That does two things. Both lowers the cost of healthcare and lowers the national debt because that is the driving force and so those are the parameters where there can be great agreement. I do not believe that Republicans want to see their beneficiaries; their recipients stand there in their community, lose these benefits or be denied these benefits in this time. So I think that there is a common ground for us to work under that is both actuarially sound and focuses on insurance, as opposed to an entitlement. Rep. Becerra: Could I just add, let me just—and I say this having served on the Bowles-Simpson fiscal commission that was appointed to deal with this deficit and debt crisis. I was fortunate—or unfortunate—to serve on the so-called Super Committee in the Congress to deal with this as well. And each time I got to serve on those I said what I'm about to say now: everything should be on the table, period. Everything should be on the table. And if we're smart and sensible, we'll leave on the table to help us reduce our deficit the things that drove us into these deficits. As the Chairman just said, Social Security has never contributed to one penny to these deficits and this debt. Why we should cut the benefits of seniors on Social Security to pay for the misspending and the bad ideas of previous Congresses, I don't understand. And so that's why we're so adamant about Social Security. Strengthen it, yes. But use it to buy down a debt created by other things? No. On Medicare, if you all just take a close look at the record, in fact a lot of Democrats lost their seats because of Republicans politicizing this issue. Democrats have come to the table with over $700 billion of savings in Medicare already. We've reformed Medicare through the Affordable Care Act and much of it is still going to play out. $700 billion—that's a lot. I have not seen one Republican come forward with any kind of proposal that saves you $700 billion. We did that without having to cut any benefits for Medicare beneficiaries who earned those benefits. That was the beauty of the reform we passed, is that we found ways to extract savings, principally from waste and fraud, the Medicare mills that we know are out there—we're going after them. And the Chairman said there's a lot of money out there that we can save. So we saved over $700 billion. In the sequester—Medicare is in the sequester and there will be savings from Medicare in the sequester. But once again: at the insistence of Democrats, the savings won't come at the expense of seniors and other beneficiaries who are on Medicare. So, is Medicare—has it been on the table? Absolutely it has been on the table, but we've been smart, at least on the Democratic side, in how we go about it. We don't go after benefits, for those who earned them. We try to make sure that we get rid of the waste and the overspending by those who are profiting from Medicare. And you can do that. And so the only thing Democrats have said is this: we're willing to talk and put everything on the table for discussion, at least this Democrat is. But the moment you want to privatize Social Security or voucherize Medicare or block-grant Medicaid, that's where you lose us, because we want to strengthen those programs, not let them die on the vine. And so there's a clear difference between Republicans who are willing to cut benefits for seniors in Medicare and Democrats who say we can find savings in Medicare, but you don't have to cut the benefits that seniors earned when they paid for the Medicare that they're now receiving. Q: Did Mr. Sperling make any commitments not to raise the eligibility age for Medicare? Rep. Larson: We did not get into specifics. And one of the things that Gene prefaced the whole comment with, and you know our Caucus is always prone to ask very direct and specific questions, as is the press, he said, "Listen, I'm not going to—because of the open nature of this discussion and what's going on and the sensitivity, no lines are being drawn in the sand." And, much as the Chairman said, that everything was on the table for discussion within the context and parameters as with eloquently outlined by our Vice Chair, Xavier Becerra. Q: One of the Caucus Members tweeted that he went into a discussion about why some of the Republican proposals on bringing in tax revenues don't add up, the math doesn't work. Can you explain what he talked about in that sense? Rep. Becerra: I think—Mr. Chairman, if I can—I think that was more a discussion about how the Republicans keep talking about doing something other than asking the wealthiest two percent to contribute a little bit more. It's very similar to what Mitt Romney kept saying, where we've never seen a proposal that adds up to anything. And so the question, I think, was posed to Mr. Sperling, "Have you seen anything that adds up? What are the numbers? How much do Republicans get in it?" We don't know, and it should be one of those things where we ask them to show us how they add up to real savings, how they would do that, because we all know that the moment they start talking about going after some of these tax programs like the mortgage interest deduction, charitable contributions, state and local tax deductions, you're hitting middle class Americans. And we're all still waiting for Republicans to indicate how they would find that level of savings that the President has called for by asking the wealthiest two percent of Americans to contribute a little bit more. Q: What specifically and concretely would you guys cut? Rep. Becerra: Are you asking for savings or cuts? Because you're trying to save. Q: I guess cuts. Are you guys willing to cut any entitlement programs, put any of that on the table? Rep. Becerra: Those have been on the table through the sequester. Q: Is there anything specifically, though, that you guys, I guess, agreed to? Rep. Larson: Yeah, no, no. I think when you say is there anything on the table that you're willing to cut, the answer is yes. And, you know, very specifically, not us, but starting with Reuters, said, "Look, there's $750 billion out there that needs to be extracted." And here's—what accounts for the rising cost in our deficit? What's the one area that we need to focus on? Healthcare. Why is it so? It's so because it's at 17 percent of gross domestic product. The rest of the industrialized world who has universal healthcare is between seven and eight percent. Switzerland is at 10 percent. Switzerland has a private sector system not unlike ours, excepting the fact that they have universal coverage, and they do that at 10 percent of GDP. So yes, here's where the cuts need to be made and here's where they need to come from. If you're at 17 percent of gross domestic product because of the cost of medical devices, pharma, insurance, hospitals, doctors and the trial bar, that's the area that you need to take a look at and reduce those costs through cuts or through changes in legislation that will both lower those costs—that's what Bertolini was talking about, that's what Reuters is talking about—and that does two things: both makes healthcare more affordable and accessible and also lowers the national debt. The question is for us, as for Democrats, is this is insurance that beneficiaries have paid into. This is something that they live on. You know that an average female adult on Social Security earns between $12,000 and $14,000 a year. You know, barely able to live on that. Clearly in a state like mine, very difficult to live in on that kind of money. And then also the services that are provided for people who receive Medicare and Medicaid. I just lost my mother. I saw what not only she went through and goes through, but also what my neighbors and friends and families in that similar healthcare facility were experiencing. And so I know the importance in that value of insurance. And so when people say, "Well, you're cutting"—it's couched as though it's an entitlement. Don't tell them that it's an entitlement and it wasn't something they saw deducted out of their paycheck every single week. And then add to that that my father's pension, who never lived long enough to collect it, and everything he paid in all went to go to pay for this, to pay for my mother's final days here on earth. And thank God that we have a social safety net like that. And we do because of our experience in the last century, first with Social Security during the depression, and then with so many seniors bankrupt because of lack of healthcare, Medicare and Medicaid. And now with Obamacare, we have all the tools here. So let us work, let us work. And here's our message: Obamacare is really Romneycare, adopted on the model of Massachusetts. It's going to open up an exchange that's going to allow for competition and allow for us to take the strengths of the system—what's the very best in government programs, what's the very best in the private sector, and what's the very best from entrepreneurialism and innovation in our academic sectors to drive down the cost, provide greater access, focus on wellness and individual responsibility and, my God, we've got something that if we work together, becomes the greatest system in the world. This is within our reach. It's all right before us and it takes a collection of the best thinking and the best ideas from not only both parties, but from all sectors of our economy and of our country in terms of the input. So that's where we need to focus on it, but when you're staring at $750 billion annually, that clearly is the place where you're going to look to cut instead of on the backs of beneficiaries who have paid into an insurance program. Q: At the beginning of this press conference you talked about how optimistic you are heading out of that meeting, but I personally have not heard any new information that made me optimistic about the chances of a deal. Did Gene Sperling convey to you any particular piece of information that was the cause for that optimism? Rep. Larson: Well, yes, I think that—if you go back, and I think Xavier was right to say let's look at context, go back to July of 2011, and as the sessions that were taking place in the White House with respect to the fiscal cliffs and then subsequent meetings that took place in the select committee. I think there's far greater optimism because there's a true crisis on hand and everything has been compressed into time and is awaiting before us. And as Xavier pointed out, Tom Cole's comments today I thought were very encouraging. The President remains very focused on this and is taking that message out. And so I think it will take a matter of making sure that, you know, the business community weighs in, that the academic communities, the labor communities, the public in general knows everything that's at stake here. And I do believe that Congress will respond in a positive way. We all have our concerns, and you've heard them outlined today by the Vice Chair and myself, and I'm sure the Republicans have their concerns as well, but I do think and remain optimistic that there is a great opportunity here for us to succeed, not by moving away from the core values that we stand for, but by embracing what we all know we agree on. Rep. Becerra: Can I just add real quickly: you had to be in the room, first. Because one, you have to see the enthusiasm that's in the room. A lot of that is driven by these new Members who have this get-it-done attitude. I don't think they look at this as a place that can't work. And while over the last two years many of us have experienced this morass where we couldn't—we would watch and wait for the Republicans to lead and they couldn't get there, they always needed Democratic votes to pass the big bills, I think this new crop of elected Representatives believes that we're going to get something done. One. Two: I think Gene Sperling did a great job of setting in a pretty clear way the landscape that we face in the next five weeks. Not that he gave the actual roadmap, but I think the landscape is very clear, and the great thing is because it's arithmetic and it's not rocket science, you can see the road on how you get there. And perhaps the reason I at least feel very optimistic is I think the President has really gelled on what he wants to do. And because of that, and because he campaigned on this, and because he won an election, I think he has the force of the American people behind him, as all the polls keep showing. Two-thirds support his balanced approach versus the Republicans my-way-or-the-highway approach, and more than 60 percent support asking the wealthiest two percent to pay a little bit more in taxes. So the road is pretty clear. And having been on these various committees to come up with the solutions, there are only so many maps that you can come up with that really work. And so the smart, sensible, balanced approach, it's in front of us and now that we're starting to see the—I guess we used to call Republican trickle-down economics, maybe we can call this Republican trickle-down politics, where all of the sudden you see a few trickles here and there, Republicans who are starting to break away from that special interest pledge to Grover Norquist. Maybe now you're going to see the beginnings of some real participation on the part of Republicans to participate in a balanced plan that gets us where we need to go. Thank you. # # #
11.25.2012	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Joe Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal, and Reps. Rosa Delauro (CT-03), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Chris Murphy (CT-05), and Jim Himes (CT-04) thanked the Administration for sending more federal assistance to help the people of Connecticut recover from Superstorm Sandy. “We’re pleased the federal government recognizes the devastation we experienced in the state because of Hurricane Sandy and will send additional aid to help rebuild Connecticut communities,” the delegation said in a joint statement issued Sunday. “The recovery effort has been and will continue to be difficult. But this assistance will help to rebuild infrastructure damaged by Sandy.” The assistance provided Friday was expanded to include additional types of rebuilding aid to those areas already benefiting from disaster aid and to provide rebuilding and clean-up help to Litchfield, Tolland, and Windham counties. ###
11.20.2012	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) awarded medals to Wethersfield resident and Korean War veteran Herbert Hoover Northrop and the family of Newington resident and World War II veteran Andrew H. Christensen Monday morning at the Pitkin Community Center in Wethersfield. “Corporal Northrop and Staff Sergeant Christensen represent everything that is great about our nation,” Larson said. “These two men answered the call when our nation needed them the most and sacrificed so much. Like so many of their generation, these men either did not accept or did not realize they were eligible for these medals and it is an honor to be able to make sure they were delivered.” Corporal Northrop, joined by his daughter Deborah E. Northrop, received the National Defense Service medal, the Korean Service Medal with 1 bronze service star and the United Nations Service medal. A veteran of the Korean War, Corporal Northrop enlisted in the Army on September 29, 1952 and served until September 15, 1954. A member of the 25th “Lightning Division” out of Hawaii, Corporal Northrop served in Korea right up until the Armistice was signed. Upon leaving the Army, he worked at Aetna Insurance for 39 years. A World War II veteran that saw action in both the North African and European theaters, Staff Sergeant Christensen passed away in September of 2010. Today his wife, Ruth and son, Bob received the Bronze Star, Army Good Conduct Medal, a Presidential Unit Citation, the American Defense Service medal, the European African Middle Eastern Theater Campaign Ribbon with four bronze service stars with arrowhead, the World War II Victory Medal, Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award, Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII, and the Sharpshooter Badge. During Staff Sergeant Christensen’s service in 2010, his family noticed that his grave marker indicated he had received the Bronze Star. Confused that they had never seen the award, the Christensen family reached out to Congressman Larson’s office to investigate. The Congressman’s office was able to recover the Bronze star and present it to the Christensen family today. ###
11.16.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senators Joseph I. Lieberman Richard Blumenthal announced that the Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act will be sent to the desk of President Obama for his signature following last night's passage by the U.S. House of Representatives. Larson originally introduced the bill in the U.S. House of Representatives during the 111th Congress and has long championed Mark Twain's legacy and his historical significance to the city of Hartford and to the nation. "Readers and historians across the nation continue to find tremendous value in Mark Twain's literary genius and unique perspective," Larson said. "The Mark Twain coins will honor his legacy, and help give future generations the opportunity to study his contributions to Connecticut and America for years to come." "Mark Twain contributed to the spirit of our great nation and the history of our state," said Lieberman. "His timeless works are known across the world, and I am proud to have worked throughout my career to protect the Twain House and the surrounding historic Nook Farm neighborhood. These commemorative coins will serve as a token of his lasting legacy." "Mark Twain is an American icon with deep roots and a proud history in Connecticut," said Blumenthal. "People of all ages from every corner of the globe seek to learn from Twain's literary works, wisdom, and wit each day. This bill commemorates his cultural and historic legacy and empowers those organizations most committed to preserving it." The bill was recently sent back to the House after its initial passage, following a technical amendment by the Senate. Once signed into law surcharges associated with the Twain coins will help support four nonprofit organizations, including the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford, that preserve the work and legacy of Mark Twain. ###
11.09.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Matthew "Mack" McDonald of Wethersfield with the Army Commendation Medal for his actions during his military service. A Specialist in the U.S. Army Reserve, 411th Civil Affairs Battalion, Matthew served in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom from 2004 to 2012. During the presentation Congressman Larson also read Matthew a citation from the Secretary of the Army, John McHugh, signed by the Adjutant General of the Army, Jason T. Evans. "Our brave soldiers deserve the recognition and support they earned fighting for our freedom," said Larson. "I am truly humbled by Matthew's actions and I am honored to present him with the Army Commendation Medal today. Matthew and his family deserve our deepest gratitude for their sacrifice." In 2005 the Humvee Matthew was driving was attacked by a Vehicle Borne Improvised Explosive Device (VBIED). After learning that the blast was from a suicide bomber, Matthew immediately began pulling security, despite suffering from cuts to his hand and ear and a concussion. As his team recovered weapons and sensitive items, Matthew was able to administer first aid to himself. For these and for other actions, Matthew was recommended for the Army Commendation Medal from his Immediate Supervisor, Sergeant Patrick Mason. ###
11.08.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal expressed their continued support for designating The Harriet Beecher Stowe House in Hartford as a National Historic Landmark. This week the National Historic Landmark Committee advanced the process by unanimously approving its nomination and sending it to the National Park System Advisory Board, who will determine whether or not to designate the Harriet Beecher Stowe House as a National Historic Landmark. "Harriet Beecher Stowe left an indelible mark on American history, and through the preservation of her house in Hartford, current and future generations can come to learn and appreciate her extraordinary accomplishments and the lasting legacy they have had," said Larson. "I commend the National Historic Landmark Committee for approving this nomination, and look forward to continuing my work to support the nomination of The Harriet Beecher Stowe House as a national historic landmark." "The Harriet Beecher Stowe House, situated in Hartford's historic Nook Farm neighborhood, is a tangible reminder of what Mrs. Stowe's brave novel continues to help teach our children; the lesson of tolerance and forgiveness, of moving forward together as one people, one nation despite our many differences," said Lieberman. "Celebrating our local heritage requires the preservation of that heritage, and I am pleased with the progress to designate the Harriet Beecher Stowe House as a National Historic Landmark." "Harriet Beecher Stowe's actions inspire us to effect change, and visitors from all over the world come to Hartford to learn about her accomplishments," said Blumenthal. "I'm proud to support this important nomination and I'll continue working toward its final designation." "The Stowe Center is pleased that the Landmarks Committee of the National Park System Advisory Board has recommended the Harriet Beecher Stowe House be designated a National Historic Landmark," said Katherine D. Kane, Executive Director of the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center. "We understand the full advisory board will consider this and make a recommendation to the Secretary of the Interior. We are particularly grateful to the offices of Congressman Larson and Senator Lieberman who testified in support of this designation. This is an important step in the process of recognizing the national significance of Harriet Beecher Stowe's Hartford home." In October Senators Lieberman and Blumenthal and Congressman Larson wrote a letter to the Chief of the National Register of Historic Places and National Historic Landmarks Program, J. Paul Loether, in support of nominating the Harriet Beecher Stowe House as a National Historic Landmark. ###
11.02.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor's October employment report, showing that the U.S. economy added 171,000 jobs in October: "Today's report shows employers are hiring more Americans than expected. This is encouraging news and marks the thirty second straight month of private sector job growth. "As more Americans look to reenter the work force after the worst recession since the Great Depression we must continue to move forward and not return to the failed policies that got us into this mess. Congress must work together to help our nation recover and bring certainty back into American homes and businesses." ###
10.26.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) urged residents and officials to make necessary steps in preparation of Hurricane Sandy. Throughout the afternoon, Congressman Larson will be reaching out to first district officials to ensure each town is aware of the resources that may be helpful in the coming days. Larson will also be speaking with Mayor Art Ward of Bristol today at 4:30 p.m. at Bristol City Hall (Mayor's Office) to discuss ways to best prepare for the hurricane. "The devastating snowstorms that hit Connecticut last fall showed us that we can't take mother nature for granted. We must do everything we can to prepare for these events," said Larson. "As Sandy approaches I will be working to help our elected officials as they prepare for the storm and encouraging all residents to be as prepared and informed as possible, so we can all stay safe over the next few days." In an email sent today, Congressman Larson also asked constituents to take all necessary precautions to ensure the safety of themselves and their families. Earlier Congressman Larson contacted Connecticut Light & Power for more information on their preparations for the hurricane. In a briefing sent today, CL&P reiterated that they are making key preparations, including resource, staffing and crew planning, and will be reaching out to customers and consumers over the weekend. ###
10.24.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented The Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Survivor Award to The Team Towanda Foundation of Wethersfield for their efforts to raise breast cancer awareness and to support those affected by breast cancer. In 2011, Judith Melchreit underwent treatment for breast cancer. While undergoing six months of chemotherapy and radiation, her friends came together to help deliver meals to her young family in what they called the "Casserole Cavalry". Following her treatment, Judith and her group of friends decided to create and sell a cookbook to raise money for a local breast cancer walk. Since then, the all volunteer non-profit has created and sold an additional cookbook and has raised $250,000 towards breast cancer awareness and support for those affected. "In little over a decade the volunteers at The Team Towanda Foundation have established themselves as one of the most committed and innovative groups fighting against breast cancer," said Larson. "Their contributions to those affected by breast cancer and their work to raise breast cancer awareness should serve as a model here in Connecticut. I am very proud to present them with this award and look forward to seeing them continue their important work in our communities." "We are so honored to be selected to receive this year's Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Survivor Award. Although The Team Towanda Foundation was named as the recipient, we accept it in honor of all of our wonderful supporters who enable us to pursue the foundation's mission to promote breast cancer awareness and the importance of early detection," said members of The Team Towanda Foundation in a joint statement. "By raising funds to pay for mammograms and breast services for underserved and uninsured women in the Greater Hartford area, we strive to ensure that all women in our community have access to these basic services. As we work toward these goals, Team Towanda also encourages all Pink Ribbon Warriors and the people who love them to tap into the power of laughter and the friendship of their Bosom Buddies in the fight against breast cancer." The Nancy Pilver Award goes to those who have shown extraordinary commitment to combating breast cancer through education, prevention, treatment, and awareness. Nancy Pilver, a former Manchester resident and long-time breast cancer activist who served as the State Legislative Chair of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition Foundation, was the first recipient of the award in 1999. Congressman Larson was so inspired by her story that he renamed this award after her in 2000, and has continued to award it each year in the first district. Pilver passed away in May of 2003. ###
10.21.2012	Hartford, CT - Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the passing of former Senator George McGovern today: "Our nation lost a champion of the American dream with the passing of Senator George McGovern. "A true humanitarian, Senator McGovern worked tirelessly for the greater good, and will always be remembered for his efforts to end the war in Vietnam. "His career is a testament to both peace and to the importance of the American middle class, and our thoughts and prayers go out to his family during this difficult time." ###
10.17.2012	Click here to watch the meeting Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Maya Wiley, the Founder and President of the Center for Social Inclusion joined The Harriet Beecher Stowe Center, Voices of Women of Color, and the Connecticut Commission on Health Equity for the town-hall style program: Transforming Hartford: The Call to Action Continues. The program focused on closing health and economic inequities in Hartford and eliminating the achievement gap among its students. "Government works best when it is a collective enterprise, and bringing every stakeholder to the table is essential for social justice in Hartford and across the country," said Larson. "While we have made great strides in Hartford and Connecticut, more work must be done in order to end health and economic disparities for our residents and close the achievement gap in our schools. I am proud to see the work Mayor Segarra has done in Hartford since we were visited by the Congressional Black Caucus over a year ago, and I commend Maya Wiley for her efforts to end social injustice nationally. When an entire community comes together to help one another, the result is always positive. I am very pleased to participate in this discussion, and I look forward to continuing my efforts to end social injustice." "This is an important conversation for the stakeholders in Hartford to be a part of. Hartford is a city with an incredibly innovative past and we need to make sure we secure that legacy in the future," says Mayor Segarra. "We need to address the economic disparities that exist as opportunities for solutions and growth. While we've made significant advances since last year with Opportunities Hartford, I look forward to more progress. Congressman Larson is a champion of Hartford, and I'm thrilled that both him and Ms. Wiley are so passionate about creating solutions." "Hartford is a vibrant and diverse metropolitan area that has the best the country has to offer and faces some of the same challenges to fair and lasting opportunity that communities around the country face," said Maya Wiley. "I am honored to join Hartford's elected and citizen leaders in acknowledging Hartford's tremendous opportunities and discussing ways to strengthen fairness and prosperity for all." The Call to Action Continues stems from the 2011 event, A Call to Action: A Conversation on Race & Social Justice. In June 2011, members of the Congressional Black Caucus joined with Congressman Larson, Mayor Segarra, and the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center to create a blueprint for how a community can come together to close the achievement gap and end economic and health inequities. Since 2011, the City of Hartford announced the Social Justice Initiative, aimed at addressing these issues through a community wide effort. ###
10.17.2012	Hartford, CT – This month Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) was named a "New Englander of the Year" by the New England Council for his leadership in job creation, energy independence, and advanced manufacturing. The prestigious award from the nation's oldest regional business organization goes to individuals who have made significant contributions to the New England Region. Congressman Larson is the first member of the House of Representatives from Connecticut to receive this award. "Being a New Englander has always meant an ennobling sense of rugged individualism, innovation, and entrepreneurship, combined with an understanding of the common weal and the knowledge that we're in this together. New England has long been the home of innovation, advanced manufacturing, bio-sciences and technologies, and some of the world's best Universities and teaching schools. Despite the current atmosphere in Washington, I know New England can lead the way in our nation pulling together to once again demonstrate that our nation's great experiment in Democracy worked," Larson said when presented with the award. "I'm very pleased to be joining the ranks of the former senior Senator from Connecticut Chris Dodd, Massachusetts Representative Barney Frank, and fellow honoree David McCullough, who I consider to be the preeminent American Historian. It's an honor to receive this award, and I look forward to continuing my work to bring jobs and economic success to the region." Larson, a champion of the President's Jobs Bill, created the Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative, to match Connecticut job seekers with manufacturing job openings in the state. To date, the job match initiative has helped nearly 500 Connecticut job seekers try to further their careers in manufacturing. In 2009, Congressman Larson worked to pass the American Recovery and Investment Act which has created or saved nearly 40,000 jobs in Connecticut. Congressman Larson led a successful bipartisan effort to eliminate additional government spending on an "alternate engine" for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, ensuring that East Hartford's Pratt & Whitney would exclusively provide the programs propulsion system and solidifying the future of defense manufacturing in Connecticut. Larson has also introduced legislation to regulate oil speculation and is a supporter of cleaner, more efficient, domestic energy, including fuel cells and natural gas. Most recently Larson introduced 'The Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Infrastructure for America Act of 2012', seeking to improve fuel cell and hydrogen energy infrastructure and increase federal incentives for the use of fuel cell technology. Congressman Larson formally received the honor on October 4th during the 2012 New England Council Annual Dinner in Boston. Other honorees included Abigail P. Johnson, President of Fidelity Financial Services, Robert K. Sheridan, President and CEO of Savings Bank Life Insurance, and David McCullough, two time Pulitzer Prize winning author and historian. ###
10.05.2012	Hartford, CT – Building on his announcement yesterday of a new round in the Connecticut Job Match Initiative, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) helped kick off Connecticut's Manufacturing Month today, joining over 500 students at the Hartford Armory for Manufacturing Mania Education Day. "For over 150 years Connecticut has been home to some of the world's greatest, most innovative manufacturers. Manufacturing is in our DNA. And our businesses need skilled workers to help continue that great tradition for the state," Larson said. "That's why events like today's Manufacturing Mania Day - and the Job Match program - are so important. We should be doing everything we can to encourage everyone who's interested to develop the skills they need for a great career in manufacturing." Manufacturing Mania Education Day, which coincides with National Manufacturing Day, was hosted by the Connecticut Dream it, Do it Initiative, which is intended to help strengthen Connecticut's future manufacturing workforce. The event is intended to help students from across Connecticut learn more about manufacturing. Yesterday in Bristol, Congressman Larson announced that there will be a third CT Manufacturing Job Match Event on November 15th in New Britain. At the event, manufacturing companies from around Connecticut will meet with manufacturing job seekers to match current job openings with candidates that offer a specific set of skills. "With over 4,800 manufactures that employ nearly 170,000 workers here in Connecticut alone, this Manufacturing Month we must recognize that a strong manufacturing sector is an important part of both Connecticut and our nation's economic success," Larson added. "That's why I created the Job Match Initiative, and why it's vital that we work with today's students to encourage them to look at a career in manufacturing. I applaud Dream It, Do It for their efforts and I look forward to continuing our work to strengthen manufacturing here in Connecticut." For additional information or to register for the job match event, please visit https://www.ctdol.state.ct.us/JobMatch/MfgJobMatch.htm ###
10.05.2012	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the U.S. Department of Labor's September employment report, which showed that the U.S. economy added 114,000 jobs in September - the 31st straight month of private sector job growth - and saw unemployment fall to 7.8 percent: "While welcome news, today's jobs report shows that unemployment remains all too real for too many Americans. Congress should be working with the President to do more to bring certainty and security to American families and businesses still struggling to make ends meet in this tough economy. "This week House Democrats were at the Capitol, ready to work on improving our economy and creating jobs. Unfortunately, despite the millions of Americans out of work, House Republicans where nowhere to be found. Apparently, they're more worried about their jobs and their paychecks this campaign season than they are about American families. From the American Jobs Act to the Farm Bill, there's plenty of things we could do to help spur the economy and create jobs. But House Republicans would rather play politics than roll-up their sleeves and get to work. "The American people deserve better. I will continue to do all I can to help our country recover and put people back to work Making It In America again, and it's my hope that those across the aisle will do the same." ###
10.02.2012	Hartford – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that The Jumoke Academy has received a $100,000 grant through the U.S. Department of Education's Charter School Program 'Collaboration Award'. Given to only five schools nationwide, the award will be used to support its efforts to improve student achievement and enhance services at Thirman L. Milner School in Hartford. "The future of Connecticut and our nation hinges on the success of our children and grandchildren, and too often they are denied the high-quality education so important to helping them succeed," Larson said. "Our children deserve an education that allows them to prosper and achieve, regardless of their parents income or where they live. I know this funding will go towards helping our younger generations receive the education they deserve, and give our students the best opportunity to thrive. I applaud FUSE and Jumoke Academy for their efforts and look forward to seeing them continue their important work in our communities." In August, Congressman Larson wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Education in support of this funding. The Jumoke Academy has been working to increase the quality of education at the Milner School in collaboration with its charter management organization, Family Urban Schools of Excellence (FUSE). ###
10.01.2012	Hartford, CT – At Hartford City Hall today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Mayor Pedro E. Segarra announced a $1 million grant for the Hartford Innovation Hub, awarded through the United States Economic Development Administration's Strong Cities, Strong Communities (SC2) Challenge. The SC2 Challenge was created to assist cities with leveraging innovative ideas and approaches to create actionable economic development proposals and plans, fostering long-term economic development, job creation, and community prosperity. Established through an executive order from President Barack Obama, the SC2 Challenge was awarded to only three cities nationwide, including Hartford. "This highly competitive grant is a testament to Hartford's commitment to economic development and job creation," said Larson. "I know that the Hartford Innovation Hub will use this well earned funding to help the entrepreneurs and advanced manufacturers essential to our community's continued recovery continue to grow. The many stakeholders who worked together to secure this grant deserve our thanks as we look forward to the continued success of Hartford's businesses and communities." "This award is great news for growing businesses and jobs in the Hartford area. Hartford has shown leadership for its outstanding long term economic strategies and its entrepreneurial spirit, and I am proud that its excellence has been recognized through this challenge," said Senator Joseph Lieberman. "With this investment, residents will enjoy an even more vibrant community and an even more economically competitive city." "This grant recognizes the promise our state's capital holds as a vibrant city committed to long-term growth. The resources provided by this grant will help Hartford attract more innovative entrepreneurs and boost existing industries in the state, increasing Connecticut's global competitiveness," said Blumenthal. "I am grateful for this significant investment in our state, and I applaud Mayor Segarra for his strong work in advancing Hartford's economic agenda," "It says a lot that Hartford was one of three cities chosen for this highly competitive grant," said Segarra. "I commend the Connecticut Delegation for their continued efforts to expand opportunities for Hartford businesses, residents and visitors. Investing in our entrepreneurs is not only an investment in our economic future but also assists in securing Hartford's legacy of innovation." "The hard work of strengthening American communities and our economy happens at the local level, and the Strong Cities, Strong Communities competition demonstrates the Obama Administration's commitment to improving cities and regions all across America," said Acting U.S. Commerce Secretary Rebecca Blank. "By challenging and encouraging experts in the field to come up with economic development plans for their individual cities, this grant program will support growth and create jobs in communities around the country." The Hartford Innovation Hub (HIH), in collaboration with the City of Hartford, plans to nurture and support entrepreneurs as they develop, launch, and grow companies. The HIH will also support start-ups and Stage II companies by providing training, education, peer networks, mentoring, strategic and technical support. While serving as a change agent, the HIH aims to achieve sustainable growth with well-educated investors and a capable, well-paid work force. The SC2 Challenge consists of two phases. In Phase I, Hartford will invite firms possessing multidisciplinary experience in economic development to compete for financial prizes that will be awarded to the three highest-ranked economic development proposals that best reflect Hartford's economic goals. In Phase II, Hartford will work with the top preferred finalist to develop substantive strategies and innovative ideas for the city to adopt. The final product will be a set of strategies derived from submitted plans that meet the specific economic development needs of Hartford. ###
09.27.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), and Sens. Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal announced that Latino Community Services, Inc., of Hartford will be receiving a $500,000 federal grant for their Project STEP – Support, Treatment, Education, Prevention. Project STEP will provide community-based treatment to those at risk of HIV infection, targeting African American and Hispanic/ Latino men ages 18-29. "Providing education, support, and prevention services is essential for our communities to help individuals at risk or living with HIV/ AIDS," said Larson. "I know Latino Community Services will use this funding to make a positive impact in the lives of many in Connecticut and give residents the support and care they need to live healthy, productive lives." "This funding will contribute to the prevention of HIV/AIDS and our community's health and quality of life," said Lieberman. "The good work of Latino Community Services and this grant will reach many families and individuals in our underserved communities who are struggling with HIV, AIDS, and other health problems and help them to live longer and fuller lives." "This grant will provide invaluable prevention and intervention services to Connecticut individuals at risk or living with HIV/AIDS," Blumenthal said. "I applaud Latino Community Services for the work that they do to ensure that individuals at risk or living with this virus get the wrap-around support that they need." "Hartford still faces challenges in adequately educating our communities about preventing the spread of HIV," said Mayor Pedro Segarra of Hartford. "This grant will help Latino Community Services continue the important work they do and help to prevent families in the future from being affected. I commend the CT delegation for its continued investment in some of Hartford's most vulnerable communities." In August Congressman Larson wrote a letter of support for Project STEP to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. The Project will engage 230 individuals and provide screening for substance abuse, HIV testing, substance abuse case management and treatment, and other support services. Latino Community Services, Inc. provides a wide range of support for residents who are at risk of HIV infection or living with HIV/ AIDS, including rapid testing, prevention services, case management and risk counseling services. ###
09.25.2012	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that Greater Hartford Legal Aid has been awarded over $330,000 in federal funding from the Department of Justice to help continue the Connecticut Domestic Violence Legal Assistance Partnership Initiative. A state-wide collaboration with Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence, Connecticut Legal Services, and New Haven Legal Assistance Association, the Initiative provides legal representation to Connecticut victims of domestic violence, works to increase representation of underserved victims, and coordinates domestic violence advocacy across the state. "All too often for victims of domestic violence the right legal help can be the difference between life and death for them or their family," said Larson. "That's where Hartford Legal Aid and its partners comes in. They work every day to help see justice served for victims of domestic violence in our communities, so I'm glad to see these federal funds going to help them keep up their good work. We should be doing everything we can here in Connecticut, and across the nation, to end domestic violence and protect families from those who would harm them." Earlier this month, the Department of Justice also awarded Connecticut Sexual Assault Crisis Services $117,000 to support state coalition efforts for coordinating victim services within Connecticut and to provide support to member rape crisis centers. ###
09.21.2012	Washington – At a rally of House Democrats today at the U.S. Capitol, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement on the House Republicans decision to keep Congress in recess over the next seven weeks. The 112th is the least productive Congress in modern history and the Republican leadership has decided to break for the election earlier this year than it has in over 50 years: "I'm proud to stand with our Members who are prepared to stay and work at the job they were sent here to do on behalf of the people that we're sworn to serve. This is personal. People back home cannot understand the work ethic of this Congress. They don't understand why we're not staying here to get the job done. "They've seen [the GOP] over the last several week perpetuate a myth that President Clinton so successfully debunked at the Convention about work requirements. The only requirement for work is that Republicans stay here and work instead of cutting and running! We're ready to do the job that we're sent here to do! We're here to get a jobs bill in front of the American people! "We want to work and get the job done!" ###
09.19.2012	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal, and Mayor of Hartford Pedro E. Segarra announced a $109,910 grant for the Governor's Prevention Partnership's Hartford Juvenile Mentoring Collaborative. The grant, awarded through the United States Department of Justice's Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Program (OJJDP), will help support mentoring initiatives seeking to reduce juvenile delinquency, gang involvement, academic failure, victimization, and school dropout rates. The members of the Connecticut Delegation released the following in a joint statement: "Every child deserves to reach his or her full potential. Mentoring programs are a valuable source of strength for at-risk youth here in Connecticut, and we are very pleased to see this funding supporting them. We know the Governor's Prevention Partnership will use this funding to help hundreds of youth in Connecticut and we look forward to seeing them continue this essential work in our communities." "Connecticut's Capital City is only as strong as the potential of its young people," said Mayor Segarra. "By investing in our students we are investing in the economic future of Hartford. I am grateful to the Connecticut Delegation and to the Governor's Prevention Partnerships for their continued dedication to preparing our students for success." "We are thrilled to be awarded a grant that will positively affect the lives of hundreds of young people in Hartford," said Jill K. Spineti, President of The Governor's Prevention Partnership. "We are honored to be one of only two states nationally to receive the grant, and greatly appreciate the support and commitment of Congressman Larson's office in helping us to gain joint congressional support during the application process. We look forward to enhancing the quality of mentoring services for youth involved in the juvenile justice system. Formation of The Hartford Juvenile Mentoring Collaborative is a priority, and we stand fully committed to train interested mentors so they are prepared to be advocates and champions for those kids who need them most." The Hartford Juvenile Mentoring Collaborative will work to improve access to mentoring programs and increase positive outcomes for a target population of 375 at-risk youth, ages 10 to 17. The collaborative will work alongside the City of Hartford's Department of Families, Children, Youth, and Recreation, the Connecticut Judicial Branch, Court Support Services Division, and key mentoring service providers, including Nutmeg Big Brothers and Big Sisters, Klingberg Family Centers and the YMCA of Greater Hartford. ###
09.14.2012	Washington – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in honor of the Jewish New Year: "This weekend millions of Jewish families will take part in prayer and celebration for Rosh Hashanah, and later this month during Yom Kippur, a day of repentance and reflection, families and communities across the world will join hands and rededicate themselves to providing a better tomorrow. "The upcoming high holidays are a time of celebration and reflection for Jewish families across our nation, and in our current economic times, it is important that all of us join in this spirit of building a better future for those who are less fortunate, for our families, and for our children. I would like to take the time today to wish our entire Jewish community in Connecticut and across the United States a year of happiness and good health. L'shana Tovah Tikatavu." ###
09.13.2012	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) condemned House Republicans today for choosing to use the very limited time left this Congress to pursue a cheap, partisan, political attack instead of getting to work addressing the long list of important business facing the nation. “Just this morning, House Republicans held a hearing perpetuating the Romney/Ryan myth that the President is trying to weaken welfare requirements, when in fact he is trying to strengthen them,” said Larson. “Republicans never fail to perpetuate a myth. And they never fail to forget about fact-checking. The truth is it’s not welfare that needs stricter work requirements; it’s Congress. We should stay here in Washington until we get the job done!” Building on the Romney campaign claim that the Obama Administration is weakening welfare work requirements – which the nonpartisan Pulitzer Prize-winning PolitiFact labeled a "pants on fire" lie – today the House Ways and Means Committee passed a bill that would give less flexibility to governors working to help the unemployed get back to work. “As President Clinton – the author of the welfare reform law – noted last week, the Obama administration is allowing state waivers from certain specific requirements regarding welfare to work ‘only if [states] had a credible plan to increase employment by 20 percent’,” Larson added. “So, for purely political reasons, Republicans in Congress are actually opposing a 20 percent increase in employment. Clearly, they’d rather see Obama fail than the nation succeed.” That is quite a flip for the “party of waivers”, as Ron Haskins – the Senior Welfare Advisor to President George W. Bush and Republican Ways and Means staffer for the 1996 welfare law – recently pointed out. In fact, in 1996, 99% of Republicans present and voting in the House, including Speaker Boehner, voted for the Welfare Reform law which gave the Secretary of Health and Human Services the waiver authority they are now condemning. In 2002 House Republicans, including vice-presidential candidate Paul Ryan, voted for a “super-waiver” granting states a broad range of exceptions to federal requirements, including welfare reform’s work requirement. And in 2005, 29 Republican Governors, including Gov. Mitt Romney, requested increased waiver authority so that states can identify ways to increase the number of Americans moving from welfare to work. Meanwhile, the Republican controlled House, which has passed the fewest number of bills in any Congress since 1947, has a long list of critical issues that must be addressed, including the expiration of the Farm Bill, which includes important drought relief, the upcoming fiscal cliff, and the expiration of middle class tax cuts. “What Congress should be focused on is the work required by our oath to our constituents,” Larson concluded. “We should have a work requirement that we take up the President’s jobs bill. We should have a work requirement that we don’t let the country go off the fiscal cliff. And we should have a work requirement on House Republicans that they stay here and do their job instead of taking the next two months off to campaign.” ###
09.13.2012	Washington – Yesterday, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced 'The Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Infrastructure for America Act of 2012'. The legislation aims to improve fuel cell and hydrogen energy infrastructure and increase federal incentives for the use of fuel cell technology. Senator Richard Blumenthal also introduced an identical bill in the United States Senate. The bills will help reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil while supporting the growing fuel cell and hydrogen energy industry. A bill summary is available here . "American ingenuity and hard work has put us on the cutting edge of fuel cell and hydrogen energy technology and we should be doing everything possible to keep us there because it will help our economy, create good jobs, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil," said Larson. "That's what this legislation is intended to do. By increasing incentives for the development and use of fuel cells we'll ensure the technology continues to grow. I applaud Senator Blumenthal for introducing this bill in the Senate, and I look forward to seeing this industry strengthened for the future." "This exciting measure can make Connecticut the fuel cell capital of America – creating jobs, clean energy, and freedom from foreign oil," said Blumenthal. "Fuel cell manufacturing puts people to work and opens a new energy future for Connecticut and the nation. I'm proud to join Congressman Larson in this battle." ###
09.12.2012	Hartford – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal announced $936,496 in federal funding for the Connecticut Department of Children and Families (DCF). The funding will be used to reduce child abuse and neglect, help families find stable housing, and help parents of children with high service needs find employment through the DCF Intensive Supportive Housing for Families Program (ISHF). "It is crucial that we protect our children and provide aide to our most vulnerable population" said Larson. "I am very pleased to see this funding going towards supporting stability for many across the state, and will continue my work to help provide the care and assistance that our children and families need in Connecticut." "This program addresses Connecticut's great need for supportive housing and provides important social services to families with very limited options," said Lieberman. "This funding will help to improve the quality of life and create a brighter future for many of Connecticut's struggling families and children." "This housing grant will help keep families together and enable more stable homes for children at risk of family breakup," said Blumenthal. "Providing housing tailored to a family's strengths and needs is highly cost effective – avoiding the trauma and experience of foster care and separation of children from parents. This funding will help provide a roof overhead, and services inside to provide better homes for children and families." The grant, awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and Families, will go towards developing and implementing the ISHF program, which is designed to be an integrated, collaborative, cross-system intervention model for families within the child welfare system with severe housing issues and other high service needs. ###
09.07.2012	Hartford – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Department of Labor's August employment report. The U.S. economy added 96,000 jobs, including 103,000 private sector jobs, and the unemployment rate shrank to 8.1 percent: "This past week Americans have been provided with a clear choice between continued action to boost growth and economic prosperity or returning to the failed policies that landed us in this crisis in the first place. "While this jobs report is heading in the right direction, there is much more work that has to be done in Congress to remove the uncertainty that is hampering growth. Congress must work together to pass jobs bills that get the American public back to work and return our economy to prosperity. The House Republicans have made this task difficult, if not impossible, by not only refusing to work with the President and House Democrats, but by also rarely having the House in session. We need to be working for the American people instead of taking vacations. "House Democrats call for Congress to act on behalf of the American people and get this country back to work. The Republican strategy of politics and obstructionism over action demonstrates a lack of leadership and a continued disregard for the most vulnerable members of our society. This is not the path forward, we must take further action." ###
08.24.2012	Hartford - Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that African Caribbean American Parents of Children with Disabilities (AFCAMP) of Hartford has been awarded a multi-year grant from the U.S. Department of Education to help continue their support of families with children who are disabled or who have special needs, particularly in low-income communities. The four year grant, awarded through the Community Parent Resource Center's Parent Training and Information Program, will provide $100,000 in the first year, and is anticipated to total $400,000. The program, established under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), is intended to help organizations provide information, guidance and training to parents of children with special needs. "This funding is great news for our community, and yet another tribute to the hard work and dedication of Merva Jackson. The disabilities community sustained a huge loss with her passing, however this is certainly a bright spot on the horizon for families who are so ably served by AFCAMP," said Larson. "I'm proud to have such a great organization in my district, and I look forward to seeing them continue their high level of service in the spirit of Merva Jackson." AFCAMP will use the funding to plan and implement a variety of projects that target low-income and underserved families, including providing culturally and ethnically appropriate training and information, sharing resources, and developing parent leaders to assist other parents of children with disabilities or special needs. The funding will also be used to help facilitate collaboration with local education agencies, policy and decision makers, public and private funders, parent groups, and community and faith-based organizations. ###
08.23.2012	Hartford, CT – Today, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01), Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal, and Reps. Rosa DeLauro, Jim Himes, Joe Courtney and Chris Murphy applauded a recent $107,358,676 Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) grant awarded to support the continued establishment of Connecticut's health insurance exchange. The grant, authorized by the Affordable Care Act, will give Connecticut additional resources and flexibility to establish its exchange. The delegation released the following in a joint statement: "We are very pleased to see Connecticut receive this critical funding, which will ultimately help thousands of families and small businesses across Connecticut find affordable health coverage. The goal of the Affordable Care Act was to provide access to quality, affordable health care for every American, and the establishment of health insurance exchanges is a vital part in achieving this goal. As one of only several states to have received a Level 2 Establishment Grant, Governor Malloy and the state of Connecticut continue to demonstrate that our state is leading the way in implementing the Affordable Care Act." Connecticut is one of only four states to receive the level two establishment grant, providing states funding over multiple years. Specifically, this grant will be used to assist in the hiring of staff and consultants to manage the creation and on-going operations of the exchange as well as the development of an IT system that facilitates critical exchange functions. Connecticut has previously received funding towards the planning and development of its health insurance exchange. ###
08.22.2012	Torrington, CT – While visiting Fuel Cell Energy Inc. today in Torrington, Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senator Richard Blumenthal announced they will introduce legislation aimed at improving fuel cell and hydrogen energy infrastructure and increasing federal incentives for the use of fuel cell technology to strengthen a growing industry and help reduce the nation's dependence on foreign oil. "Our economic recovery depends on smart, forward thinking investments that will help us build a stronger future for everyone. That's why I'm excited about the potential of fuel cells and hydrogen energy. Investing now in this technology will help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil, while also creating good jobs here at home and ensuring a strong industry for years to come," said Larson. "The kind of work being done here at Fuel Cell Energy is exactly the kind of work we should be seeing more of to help move us to a stronger future. So I look forward to continuing my work with the delegation to improve federal incentives for this sustainable, American technology. It's good for our economy here in Connecticut and for energy security for the nation." "Fuel cell technology and energy can create jobs and enhance our state economy as well as free America from dependence on foreign oil – a huge win-win for everyone," Blumenthal said. "I am proud to introduce this bill modeled on Congressman Larson's measure, which promises major benefits to Connecticut companies, helping to make our state the fuel cell capital of the world." Larson's legislation, 'The Fuel Cell and Hydrogen Infrastructure for America Act of 2012', is intended to accelerate the deployment of fuel cell and hydrogen energy technology through infrastructure and investment tax credits. Senator Blumenthal will be introducing a companion bill in the United States Senate. Fuel cells and hydrogen energy, an American led development, provide clean, highly efficient energy that can be used in a variety of settings, including powering vehicles and providing power for buildings. ###
08.21.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Marion resident Leon Cornwall Doolittle with the commendation he earned over 67 years ago serving our nation during World War II. Mr. Doolittle, 92, is a combat veteran who served in the 30th Infantry Division throughout Europe, including at the Battle of the Bulge. "It is a privilege to recognize Mr. Doolittle for his service and I am honored to present him with these long overdue medals," said Larson. "Serving in one of America's greatest military victories, Leon Doolittle and the 30th Infantry Division put their lives on the line for their country and sacrificed a great deal in the name of freedom. Mr. Doolittle's exemplary record of service is an example of the American spirit of service and freedom, and I am very pleased to honor him here today." Drafted into the U.S. Army in April of 1944, Mr. Doolittle served in Central Europe and Belgium and was wounded in combat. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson's office was made aware that Mr. Doolittle had never received the medals he had earned for his service. Working with the Department of Defense, Congressman Larson and Mr. Doolittle were able to confirm Mr. Doolittle's eligibility and acquire each of the medals presented today. For his service, Mr. Doolittle was presented with the: Purple Heart Bronze Star Medal Good Conduct Medal American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal with 3 bronze service stars WWII Victory Medal Combat Infantryman Badge 1st Award Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII Marksman Badge with Rifle Bar ###
08.15.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) joined millions across the country in celebrating the first day DREAM Act eligible youths can begin to realize their dream and start legally contributing to the future of our nation. "Those who were brought to America through no fault of their own and who've consistently done everything right should be given an opportunity to succeed here in the United States. That's why I supported the DREAM Act in the House, and why I commend President Obama for doing the right thing while Congress continues to debate," said Larson. "I applaud President Obama, Secretary Napolitano, and the Congressional Hispanic Caucus for their hard work in making deferred action a reality, and I look forward to continuing our work towards comprehensive immigration reform." As ordered by President Obama, today the U.S Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) began a new process that allows those who entered the United States as children and who meet the criteria laid out in the DREAM Act to request a renewable two-year deferral of deportation and permission to legally work in the U.S. To be eligible, individuals must have been brought to the United States as a child and meet several other criteria, including: Under the age of 31 as of June 15, 2012; Came to the U.S. before the age of 16; Have continuously resided in the U.S. since June 15, 2007; Are currently in school, have graduated or obtained a certificate of completion from high school, have obtained a GED certificate, or are an honorably discharged veteran of the Coast Guard or Armed Forces of the United States; and Have not been convicted of a felony, significant misdemeanor, three or more other misdemeanors, and do not otherwise pose a threat to national security or public safety. Those interested in more information - or in requesting deferred action, should visit the USCIS website at www.uscis.gov or call 1-800-375-5283. ###
08.10.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement on Jamaica's 50th anniversary of independence: "This week I join in honoring Jamaica's 50 years of independence," said Larson. "This is truly a significant time for Jamaica, who not only celebrated half a century of sovereignty but also saw their Olympic team bring home gold in historic fashion. I am thrilled to celebrate the rich history and tradition that Jamaica has brought to the first district, and I look forward to celebrating Jamaican culture for years to come." This week the Jamaican flag flew over the Connecticut state capitol in honor of their independence and Jamaica's Usain Bolt became the only man in history to achieve gold in both the 100 meter and 200 meter dash in two consecutive Olympic games. Former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell and New York Congresswoman Yvette D. Clark were in Kingston Monday representing President Barack Obama during a celebration marking the anniversary. ###
08.09.2012	Hartford, CT – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that $750,000 in federal funding has been awarded to the Community Health Center Association of Connecticut (CHCACT) to provide a full range of HIV specialty medicine and social services to infants, children, youth and women who are infected or affected by HIV/ AIDS. The funding is being awarded through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Ryan White Title IV AIDS Healthcare Program. "The Ryan White program is an important safety net for those affected by HIV/AIDS, and helps Connecticut communities provide access to lifesaving services for thousands," Larson said. "Ensuring care for those affected by HIV/AIDS is the right thing to do for the individuals who need it and for our entire community, so I'm glad to see that the Department of Health continues to recognize the important impact this funding has on the lives of so many across Connecticut." "The Community Health Center Association of CT has had the privilege of serving as the Ryan White Part D grantee for Connecticut for over 20 years. We look forward to continuing to work closely with the seven Federally Qualified Health Centers who partner with us in caring for Connecticut infants, children, youth and women who are affected and/or infected by HIV," said Evelyn A. Barnum, JD, CEO of CHCACT, a not-for-profit service organization dedicated to strengthening and supporting the operations of community health centers across Connecticut. Offering funding for primary medical care and HIV related health support, the Ryan White program provides services for over 500,000 people each year. The funding for Connecticut will go towards providing HIV medical care, behavioral health and oral health services, medical case management, nutritional counseling, outreach, adherence monitoring and education services for HIV / AIDS patients at Health Centers in Hartford, New Haven, Bridgeport, Willimantic, and Torrington. ###
08.03.2012	Hartford, CT – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the Department of Labor's July employment report: "As we continue to recover from the worst economic crisis since the great depression, today's jobs numbers are encouraging news. Yet the real story is that more work needs to be done – something that Republicans in Congress refuse to do. "This week, the House of Representatives had the opportunity to prevent a tax hike of $2,200 on the average middle class family of four. Yet instead of joining with the President, Senate, and House Democrats to provide economic certainty to American families, House Republicans continued to hold middle class tax relief hostage to protect tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires. "House Republicans would rather begin a five week summer vacation than roll up their sleeves and get to work for the American people. We owe it to the millions of unemployed workers to reach across the aisle and fight to make the American dream a reality. "Congress cannot afford to waste a single day. We must work together to get America back to work." ###
08.03.2012	Washington – Today Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) congratulated Rebecca M. Townsend, Ph.D. of Manchester, Connecticut, for being recognized as a 'Champion of Change' by the White House. The Champion of Change program, part of President Barack Obama's Winning the Future initiative, honors those who help their communities through transportation innovation. "I am honored to recognize Rebecca Townsend as a recent White House Champion of Change," said Larson. "Her work to increase youth participation in government is vital for the future success of our communities. This recognition is yet another example of the great innovators and educators we have in Connecticut's education system, and I look forward to seeing her continued commitment to her students." Rebecca M. Townsend is currently an Associate Professor of Communications at Manchester Community College (MCC). At MCC she serves as the Principal Investigator for the Partnership for Inclusive, Cost-Effective Public Participation, a program initially funded in 2009 by a competitive grant through the U.S. Department of Transportation's Public Transportation Participation Pilot Program. The MCC program aims to train students to facilitate meaningful discussion and increase their knowledge of transportation planning through communications class work and community service. ###
07.31.2012	Washington – Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded a U.S. District Court decision last week to require TRICARE – the military healthcare system – to cover Applied Behavior Analysis (ABA) therapy as a medical treatment for military families that have children with autism. According to recent estimates, 1 in every 88 military children has autism. "Our men and women in uniform put their lives on the line every day for our country, and they, and their families, deserve access to the best possible medical care we can give them," said Larson. "Families like Rachel Kenyon and her husband Sergeant Major William Kenyon of the Connecticut National Guard, who have already sacrificed so much, should not have to fight for the care they need for their children too. I'm very pleased that the court has ordered the military to provide the best possible care for children with autism and I will continue my efforts to ensure that military families are getting all the help they need." Larson sponsored the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act, which would clarify that TRICARE must provide medically necessary behavioral treatments such as ABA for both active duty and retired military dependents as a part of the basic healthcare coverage. In May, an amendment he introduced on the same issue was included as a part of the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2013. More recently, Congressman Larson praised a decision by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) that allowed insurance coverage of ABA as a medical intervention for federal employees and their families, and wrote to Secretary Panetta, urging him to take action following OPM's decision. ###
07.26.2012	(WASHINGTON) – Recognizing that nearly three quarters of the over 100 million Americans under the age of 24 do not believe that our government adequately represents them, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) has introduced a resolution calling on the President to create a Presidential Youth Council. The resolution, drafted by the Campaign for a Presidential Youth Council, is intended to help provide America’s youth a stronger voice in government by allowing Congress and the President to appoint a panel of 16 to 24 year olds who have proven through public service that they are engaged and informed and empower them to solicit the unique views and perspectives of the nation’s youth and inject those views into policy deliberations. “Our nation was founded on the principle of government of the people, by the people, and for the people. For us to live up to that principal, it’s important that all Americans know that their voices are heard in the debates that drive the nation,” said Congressman Larson. “I’ve found that an active Congressional Youth Cabinet not only helps students in my district engage on the issues that affect them, they also help me better represent my district. I know a Presidential Youth Council would do the same thing for the President, providing him and his cabinet with a direct link to our youngest generation. I hope my colleagues will join me to pass this resolution and encourage the Administration to make this idea a reality.” Youth councils are a proven approach for engaging young people in organizations. The National League of Cities estimates that there are over 400 local youth councils in cities across the U.S. Major companies and organizations regularly bring together youth advisory panels to collect their unique perspective. And even the State Department is building youth councils in U.S. embassies across the globe. A long time advocate for youth in our national debate, Congressman Larson created his own youth cabinet four years ago comprised of two students from every school in the First Congressional District of Connecticut, which he meets regularly with for insights into the issues effecting Connecticut youth and their families. Larson was joined in Washington this week by representatives of his youth council to help announce the resolution. “This legislation that Congressman Larson is introducing will actively engage youth in all levels of government, from the presidential level to the level where Members of Congress have their own cabinets,” said Matt Wilson, a 17 year old Wethersfield resident. “The government youth advisory opportunity means more future citizens will feel positively connected to their government and better realize outcomes in youth programs that our government spends precious, finite resources on. We hope that every Member of Congress and each Senator signs on to the bill to help ensure a healthy democracy for tomorrow and to help us protect our democracy for tomorrow's citizens.” Over 100 local, state and national youth-serving organizations support the creation of a Presidential Youth Council, including The Campaign for a Presidential Youth Council, DoSomething.org, The Forum for Youth Investment, Rock The Vote, and Youth Service America. ###
07.26.2012	(WASHINGTON) – Today Congressman John B. Larson called on the House Republican leadership to pass the middle-class tax cut. Earlier today, the United States Senate voted to extend tax cuts for middle-class families without adding unnecessary tax breaks for the top 2% of Americans. "With the Senate's action today, the only thing standing in the way of a tax cut for middle-class families and American small businesses is the House Republican majority," said Congressman Larson. "All Members can agree that providing a tax break to the middle-class is the right thing to do in these difficult economic times. It's time that we come together around a something we all agree on so that we can provide the certitude and certainty that the American people are begging us for. "But it remains clear that the leadership in the Republican Party would rather see the President fail than the nation succeed. If they get their way and deadlock Congress into doing nothing about the expiring tax cuts, nearly 120 million middle-class families will see their taxes go up by an average of $1,600 – something they cannot afford. Middle-class families are counting on us to do the right thing. They deserve nothing less." ###
07.24.2012	(Hartford) – Today Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT01) announced $2 million in federal funding for the Greater Hartford Transit District. Awarded through the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) Bus Livability Program the funding will be used to implement pedestrian safety improvements as part of the Sigourney Street Connectivity Improvements Project at the Sigourney Street Station. Improvements include sidewalks, lighting, stairs and additional amenities for transit passengers. "This grant will help ease the commute for those who choose to take mass transit to work when CTFastTrak is up and running," Lieberman said. "I'm pleased that this grant is yet another federal investment in Hartford's transportation fabric along with the CTFastTrak busway, the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line, and the recent TIGER grant for the Intermodal Triangle Project." "An investment in our roads, bridges and highways is an investment in jobs at a critical moment in our economic recovery," Blumenthal said. "I am pleased to see strong federal support for Connecticut's long-term transportation priorities through this grant and others." "This project will benefit the community by making transit more accessible, relieving congestion on the roads, and spurring transit-oriented development that will benefit residents and businesses alike," said Congressman Larson, "Investing in a successful mass transportation system will improve safety and convenience for commuters, and will encourage job growth in the region." "This is another terrific sign that Washington is taking a long hard look at Hartford as a renaissance community. Over the last several weeks we have seen almost $20 million in federal grants to improve our transportation infrastructure, maintain public safety and improve the overall livability of Connecticut's Capital City. Working together, with the support of the federal delegation, who have gone above and beyond in support of Hartford, the Governor and other state officials and stakeholders, like the Greater Hartford Transit District, we are taking significant steps forward that will make Hartford a more desirable place to live, work and raise a family," said Mayor of Hartford Pedro E. Segarra. The FTA's Bus Livability Program awards competitive grants to help public transportation providers finance capital projects, replace, rehabilitate and purchase buses and related equipment, and construct bus related facilities. Part of the CTFastTrak, the Sigourney Street Connectivity Improvements Project seeks to blend transit and commercial space in a highly traveled area of Hartford and create a safe pedestrian environment for the thousands of commuters who travel daily into Hartford. ###
07.24.2012	(WASHINGTON) – Congressman John B. Larson announced today that H.R. 1404, the Fair Elections Now Act (FENA), has gained its 100th co-sponsor in the United States House of Representatives. Backed by a broad coalition, Congressman Larson introduced FENA as a bi-partisan act to take the influence of big money out of our campaign finance system. "Anyone who has turned on the TV lately can see the corrosive effect of essentially unlimited money being spent to buy our elections. That flood of money is in no small part responsible for the growing cynicism and despair Americans feel about our government," said Larson. "The Fair Elections Now Act is intended to let lawmakers get back to the work they came to Washington to do without spending their time in a hunt for campaign dollars. With 100 co-sponsors, I'm proud to be able to say that FENA has gained the support of over half the Democratic Caucus, but we'll keep on working to gain broad bipartisan support for this much needed reform." States around the country have acted as laboratories for election reform like the Fair Elections Act. They've shown overwhelming success in reducing the influence of big donors and letting lawmakers get back to doing the people's business. Now it is time to take the lessons learned in our states and cities and enact the Fair Elections Act on a federal level. FENA creates a voluntary system that allows candidates to spend their time meeting with constituents and working on issues most important to their communities instead of dialing for big dollars. Here's how it would work: • The program is completely voluntary – no candidate for Congress is compelled to use it. • Candidates must raise a minimum level of small individual contributions to qualify for the program. Once they qualify, candidates will abide by various restrictions and disclosure requirements. • Qualified candidates will receive an up-front grant, based on the average costs of winning campaigns in recent elections for their primary campaigns, and if nominated, another grant for their general election campaign. • Candidates will also receive a match for contributions of $100 or less from an individual; that match will stop after a certain spending level is reached, but candidates may continue to raise donations of up to $100 per individual without a match.
07.18.2012	(HARTFORD, CT) – Today Congressman John B. Larson announced that Hartford, West Hartford and Bristol will be receiving funding through the Department of Justice Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program (JAG). Hartford and West Hartford were awarded $200,793 and $10,613 respectively while Bristol was awarded $26,235 through the program. "As cities and towns look to cut back and stretch their budgets during this difficult economic time, we must remember who protects our communities," said Congressman Larson. "Supporting our local police and providing them with the tools and resources they need is vital to protecting the citizens of Connecticut. This funding will help police departments maintain staffing levels and acquire the equipment necessary to continue the high level of work we have come to expect." The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program provides formula grants to support local governments for various criminal justice needs. The City of Hartford will use this funding to increase their police presence while West Hartford plans to increase their ability to analyze and review digital evidence. The City of Bristol will use the funding to purchase equipment. ###
07.13.2012	(HARTFORD, CT) – Congressman John B. Larson announced today that Community Health Services in Hartford will be receiving $385,125 in federal funding through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Ryan White Part C Outpatient Early Intervention Services Program. The funding will be used to bring comprehensive outpatient health care to people living with HIV disease. "For years funding through the Ryan White program has supported essential medical care for people living with HIV/AIDS in Connecticut," said Congressman Larson. "Communities across the state rely on this funding to provide them with services that make living a healthy and productive life possible. I am very pleased to see Community Health Services receive this grant and I look forward to seeing them continue their excellent patient-focused care." "Community Health Services, Inc (CHS) would like to express its sincere appreciation to HRSA for renewing our Ryan White Part C Early Intervention Services funding through 2015," stated Kenneth Green, Chief Executive Officer of CHS. "With this funding, in conjunction with other Federal and State funding that benefits Persons Living with HIV/AIDS, CHS is able to provide a full range of comprehensive primary care health services to our Ryan White patients across all clinical disciplines. Statistics show that if caught early and treated appropriately, HIV/AIDS has become a very manageable chronic disease condition. Afflicted persons are now able to live out a normal, productive lifespan thanks to the funding streams that allow CHS to provide the treatment and services they need." The Ryan White Program provides funding for primary medical care and essential HIV related support services. The program was first authorized in 1990 and has since grown to provide services for more than 500,000 people every year. ###
07.13.2012	(WASHINGTON) - Today Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the United Technologies Company (UTC) of East Hartford has been awarded a $4.4 million federal grant for natural gas technology research. UTC is one of only 13 recipients of the highly competitive grant from the U.S. Department of Energy's Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E) MOVE program, or Methane Opportunities for Vehicular Energy. The MOVE program is intended to help spur the development of next-generation natural gas vehicles. "For our country to break its addiction to foreign oil, we need to move away from traditional transportation fuels and incentivize the switch to natural gas, hydrogen, and other alternative fuel vehicles. I have long supported the increased usage of clean-burning, domestically produced, natural gas in our transportation fleet, both by including incentives in my past climate change legislation and by proudly cosponsoring the current NAT GAS Act. This grant will continue to cement Connecticut's position as a world leader in alternative energy research and production," said Senator Lieberman. "From its facility in East Hartford, United Technologies is once again pushing what's possible in the power industry," Senator Blumenthal said. "Federal support for projects with transformative economic and environmental benefits – changing how we create and consume energy – is highly competitive. This grant is a testament to the talents of Connecticut's workforce and the state's ability to lead in a growing sector with enormous potential for job creation in the state." "Providing cleaner and more affordable forms of energy is vital for our nation's economy and our national security. Natural gas is an abundant, affordable, and American energy source and developing commercially viable natural gas vehicles is vital to lowering energy costs and weaning us off foreign oil," said Congressman Larson. "This funding shows that we can harness this cutting edge technology at home while providing hundreds of jobs for Connecticut. And I'm glad to see that while Congress may be stuck in gridlock and obstructionism, Connecticut continues to drive on towards cleaner, more efficient energy through an industry poised to create hundreds of thousands of jobs nationwide." DoE announced today that MOVE program funding will be going to projects in Connecticut, California, Colorado, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Texas, Washington, and Wisconsin. UTC will use this federal funding to engineer a low-cost natural gas tank for passenger vehicles, replacing the bulkier tanks currently in use that have limited the viability of natural gas for everyday use. Recognizing that the projected 100 year supply of natural gas resources in the United States has the potential to create more than 600,000 jobs across the country, Congressman Larson is a lead sponsor of the NAT GAS Act and a strong advocate in Congress for moving away from foreign oil and switching to fueling our vehicles with clean burning, domestically produced, and affordable, natural gas. Senator Lieberman is also a cosponsor of the NAT GAS Act, and has included similar provisions in his past climate change legislation. Senator Blumenthal voted for the NAT GAS Act as part of the Senate's highway bill and supports the increased, responsible use of natural gas resources. ###
07.10.2012	HARTFORD, CT – Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statements after today’s dedication of the fuel cell power plant installed at Central Connecticut State University. “Connecticut is the world leader in fuel cell technology, and this power plant will help solidify Connecticut’s image as a clean energy leader while providing students with an opportunity to learn about the technology first hand,” said Senator Lieberman. “This type of initiative will lead to fewer emissions, a cleaner environment, and a more secure energy future for our country.” “I want to congratulate CCSU for its forward-thinking investment in a Connecticut-made product that will keep energy costs down and promote the environmental and economic benefits of clean energy for generations to come,” said Senator Blumenthal. “CCSU serves as a model for smart investment in clean energy, demonstrating the clear benefit to our environment and what Connecticut’s growing fuel cell industry can offer as a competitor on the global stage.” “With the addition of this new fuel cell power plant, Connecticut continues to be a leader in clean energy technologies,” said Congressman Larson. “I applaud Central Connecticut State University for doing their part in reducing both energy costs and their impact on the environment. Even as our economic recovery is hampered by rising energy costs and partisan politics I continue to be encouraged by the innovation of our local businesses and universities.” The fuel cell power plant will provide clean energy to the university resulting in more than $100,000 in energy savings per year. ###
06.28.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Affordable Care Act: “The Supreme Court decision today is a great victory for children with pre-existing conditions, for women who have been unfairly discriminated against, and the start to providing a solid groundwork for ensuring that all Americans can get the care they need. “Much work still needs to be done to make healthcare affordable and accessible to all, but hopefully today’s ruling means we can set the partisan fights aside and move forward as a nation.” ###
06.27.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Xavier Becerra (CA-31) were joined by Richard Trumka, the President of the AFL-CIO, and Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) for a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting this morning on the need for Congress to focus on jobs, not partisan gimmicks. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us here. We just had a very stimulating caucus. I'm proud that, as our guest, we had the opportunity to hear from the President of the AFL-CIO, Rich Trumka, who will speak today. But let me start by saying that here we are, with only a few legislative session days left. We could've passed a transportation bill over 100 days ago. And yet, as this construction season continues to dwindle away, we're still waiting to see whether or not we'll have a transportation bill. We heard from Joe Courtney again today in our caucus about whether or not we'll have a student loan forgiveness bill that's up. The fact of the matter is this Republican majority in the House has obstructed every opportunity to put the country back to work. Time and again the President has reached out. But even extending the courtesy to the President of the United States to put forward his jobs bill has been rebuffed by the Republican majority. People in my district say it best: they face the dark abyss of uncertainty. And what they desire is the simple dignity that is derived from a job. The ability to look across the kitchen table at your spouse and children and let them know that you're working towards their security. Instead, that uncertainty – because of their mortgages underwater, the continued squeeze that's placed upon them with the education of their children, and the shrinking of their wages – is our number one focus. Putting this country back to work. And yet, what do we see on the agenda this week? A contempt of Congress. Come on! Americans get it. They see what's going on here. And it's got to stop. We will continue to fight on behalf of working people, to put this nation back to work, to make things here in America, to embrace an innovation agenda that has us focusing on creating jobs here at home and not outsourcing them abroad. We heard an inspiring message this morning from the President of the AFL-CIO, and I'm proud to introduce Rich Trumka now. Richard Trumka: Thank you. It's good to be here with you this morning. And I guess I'll just very quickly recap the message that I tried to deliver this morning and then open it up, I guess, for questions. So here's what we said, that Americans want three things: jobs, jobs, and more jobs. And they're tired of all the delaying tactics that they've seen from the other side, whose primary goal has been to make sure no progress is made. We find that ironic. They're frustrated with that and they're not going to tolerate it. They're going to get a chance, I think, every politician's going to get a chance in just a few weeks, to really talk about whether they want to bring jobs home or whether they want to continue to reward companies that take jobs offshore. There's a bill called the Bring Jobs Home Act that'll be voted on in the Senate right after the July 4th break, probably around the 10th of July. We're doing field rallies and demonstrations on behalf of that bill. What it would do is remove deductions from people who move jobs offshore and give tax credits to people who bring jobs home and create jobs here at home. Every incentive to do it right. They'll get a chance to vote on that. Those that vote to continue to send jobs offshore, I think, are going to have a tough time in the fall ballot box because American workers will know who stood with them and who didn't stand with them. They also want a fair tax system where everybody – everybody – pays their fair share. And they're not seeing that right now. They want a fair tax system so that we have the revenue. Because the myth that America is bankrupt really needs to be destroyed. We're a rich country. In fact, the richest in the world. We just need the revenues to bring it in. And the revenues come from people who've been avoiding those. We've talked about that. We talked about a couple of other things this morning, but the gist of it is that Americans want hope. They want somebody who's going to stand up for them and say we're going to create jobs. And that's what this Caucus talked about this morning: ways to create jobs. We used to have bipartisan consensus when it came to the transportation act, FAA, and a number of other things. It wasn't partisan because it wasn't Democrats or Republicans that owned bridges, roads, and our competitive future whenever those bridges and roads are the best in the world. Now every one of these becomes a fight. It becomes a, I guess, a cliffhanging experience, that they take everything to the edge of the cliff before they say okay, we'll extend this for a few months. Look, we need to know that America's going to be competitive. We need to have a transportation bill that takes care of our roads, bridges, and other things. FAA bill, we need to have that. Clean water act. All of those things that do two things – make America competitive in the world, and create jobs - are in the breach. So we're asking all those Representatives to come forward and help us create those jobs, help us make America more competitive. And those that don't really should be taken to task for that. And I think they probably will. It's called election day, and they will get taken to task on that day. Thank you. Rep. Larson: Thanks Rich. Xavier. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, thank you and to President Trumka, we want to say thank you very much for drilling down on what Democrats have been saying for quite some time today in our Caucus meeting. You really honed in on the message of jobs, jobs, jobs and we are with you on that. We believe that every single minute of Congressional time on the Floor of the House of Representatives should be spent talking about putting Americans back to work. How can we help small businesses and large businesses in America get folks back to work? And part of that, of course, means creating the demand that generates the need for Americans to go out and purchase things and put people back to work. That's what we'd like to focus on. And it's kind of interesting with just a couple of days left before we break, again, in this Congress and are gone, we have a number of things that are coming before us that could help us create those jobs. Both Chairman Larson and President Trumka mentioned we have a stalled transportation bill which Republicans in the House have kept us from voting on that would create some two million American jobs, especially in that construction industry which so much is in need of getting its members back to work. We have the American Jobs Act, which is the President's proposal which would create another million-plus jobs. There are three millions jobs out there for Americans that are sitting because Republicans in the House are unwilling to let us cast votes on those bills. At the same time, rather than talk about jobs, Republicans seem intent on having a vote on the Floor of the House that has nothing to do about creating jobs for Americans but has everything to do with keeping the dysfunction of this Congress going, and that is a contempt citation as a result of an investigation which seems to have run aground. And it seems to be trolling for a way to have material to use against the Administration. I hope the [fourth estate] will help the House of Representatives take a close look at what a partisan witch hunt looks like in the Congress of the United States because it's time for us to get to work and deal with jobs. I will close by saying the following: this week we're going to find out if Americans will be able to move forward with their healthcare and whether or not American families have to worry once again that if a child that they have is born with a pre-existing condition, if once again that child will be denied health insurance by an insurance company. We're going to find out this week if the Supreme Court understands that a lot of young Americans who are under the age of 26 are very fortunate today, some three or four million of them are fortunate today, to have their health insurance because of the landmark health reform that passed and if whether or not the Supreme Court will allow those families to maintain health insurance coverage for their young adult children. We're going to find out if the Supreme Court wants to help seniors continue to be able to reduce the size of that doughnut hole in their prescription drug coverage so they don't have to spend so much money out of pocket. We'll find out this week if the Supreme Court is listening to the American people and following the U.S. Constitution or if it's becoming more and more what we've seen the past: a partisan body no different from the Congress, no different from the elections that we see on a semiannual or every four year basis and whether there are nine people on the Supreme Court who are going to try to do the bidding of special interests, who are actually interested in listening to the needs of the American people, guided by the Constitution of the United States. We had a decision rendered earlier this week which dealt with immigration which confirmed that, once again, it's the federal government's role to deal with immigration reform. And I hope that that's a signal, a clear signal, to Republicans to take their foot off the brake and let us get to immigration reform the way most people want it to get done, because we have a broken immigration system that is in desperate need of action by Congress instead of by 50 different states giving us 50 different laws. And with that, I yield back to the Chairman. Rep. Larson: We're also going to find out this week whether or not student loans double and someone in our Caucus who's done an extraordinary job, who's on the Education and Labor Committee, Joe Courtney has led this fight for our Caucus. Joe. Rep. Courtney: Thank you John. As you said, that is one of the issues we're gonna find out. In three days, 7 million college students all across America, most from working families because the subsidized Stafford student loan program is a means-tested program that helps middle-income kids pay for college, are going to find out whether or not the loan levels, the loan interest rates, are going to double on July 1st or not. There is some promising developments that we're hearing from the Senate, that an acceptable pay-for has come together, at least for a one year extension. The House Republican leadership has been mum in terms of whether or not they actually will agree to that and Mitch McConnell himself said that the only question that remains in terms of whether or not this is going to get done in the final hours here is whether or not the House Republican caucus will do its job and come together as the Constitution requires with a common sense compromise to make sure again that student loan debt, which now exceeds credit card debt and car loan debt, is going to continue to go higher, whether we're going to make it worse or whether or not we're going to at least lock in a lower, affordable rate for seven million students all across America. This should not have come to this. President Obama on January 25th, before the State of the Union address, challenged Congress to lock in the lower rate. The House Republican leadership stonewalled for three months. In March they passed the Ryan budget plan which locked in the 6.8 percent rate. And, what I would note, is that if we are successful over the next few hours to get the lower rate protected, it will be the first real-life intrusion on the Ryan budget plan since it passed in the House in March. It shows again, in issue after issue, whether it's Medicare or whether it's adequate financing for a whole host of issues, that when real-life issues, such as paying for college, match up against what the Ryan plan called for, in fact the Ryan plan loses with the vast majority of the American people. And even the Republican candidate for president conceded about a month and a half ago that the lower rate had to be protected. So this is an issue which this Caucus, under Leader Pelosi, George Miller, John, Xavier, and all of us have been talking about for the last five months and we are going to continue to talk about in November because in fact, for working families in particular, paying for college is not going to be something solved by a one-year fix. We need to have a comprehensive package in terms of making sure that higher education debt levels are going to be turned around and that we are actually going to have system which provides a way for young people to meet the workforce needs of this country. And with that, I'll turn it back to you, John. Chairman Larson: Thank you very much Joe. Thank you for that excellent report. And with that we'll take questions. Q: Do you expect many Democrats to vote for the Holder contempt citation tomorrow and does the NRA play a role in that at all? Rep. Larson: Well certainly the NRA will play a role. They do. But we expect the vast majority of Democrats, especially those that are familiar with the facts of the case. You know we found it very interesting today, and Elijah Cummings did a terrific jobs of explaining this, it's hard to imagine that when this action took place in 2006 under a previous administration and that when the minority, in this case Elijah Cummings, asked that we bring forward those individuals that were actually involved in that for testimony, that they were denied. And I think as Chairman Issa admitted this past weekend that there is no involvement on the part of the President. In contradiction to, I think, what were some inflammatory statements on behalf of the Speaker. We begin to see that this is just all part of a continuing plan and whether its suppressing the vote, or suppressing the economy, this obstructionist regime that we see that continues to block because they‘d rather see President Obama fail than the nation succeed. And that’s thoroughly frustrating because we know there are people in this body on both sides of the aisle who understand the importance of putting this country back to work and embracing not only student loans, but a robust transportation bill that will put the country back to work. President Trumka is right. A pothole isn’t Democrat or Republican. And neither are crumbling bridges, and sewage systems, and broadband for our schools that need to be fixed and that’s what we should be focusing on. Yes, yes go ahead. Rep. Becerra: I just have to add this. The fact that the NRA is playing politics on this issue shows how far Republicans allowed the issue of government oversight to descend into an issue of Republican overreach. To now inject the NRA on an issue that has nothing to do with the specific use or ownership of guns on an issue of a contempt citation, to me is why this congress, and this past year and half, has become a year and a half of failure to launch, failure to deal with jobs, failure to deal with the economy, failure to deal with the things that most Americans are concerned about. What the heck is the NRA doing getting involved and scoring votes on the issue of a contempt citation? That’s where we are though. And that’s what this House of Representatives under Republican leadership is spending its time on. It’s spinning its wheels talking about contempt citations on issues its not willing to fully investigate, at the same time Americans are crying out for help and trying to hold on to their homes and keep their jobs. Q: Will we see Democrats vote against Holder because of their concern about the NRA? Rep. Larson: I’m sorry what’d you say? Q: Will we see any kind of influence on the NRA’s rating of Democrats regarding their vote? Rep. Larson: Well, listen, you’d have to I guess, there has been no polling on our membership on how they’d respond to the NRA. But suffice it to say certainly that the NRA is a major force on this Hill. As the Vice Chair has said, it seems rather extraordinary that they would score this issue. But some members are impacted by that and you’d have to ask the individual members how they’re going to respond. But the majority of this caucus, strong majority of this caucus, will be with Elijah Cummings. Rep. Becerra: By the way, what I expressed was my own personal opinion about the NRA and the fact that it’s playing politics on this issue. Q: Mr. Larson, all four of you gentleman played a major role in 2009 and 2010 in getting the healthcare law bill, at the time, passed. Tomorrow, the Supreme Court will ultimately decide, you know, what’s left of it or keep it all intact, we all know the kind of permutations. Assuming that there are going to be changes made by the Supreme Court what is the Democratic response tomorrow when that ruling comes out? And Mr. Trumka what is labor’s response? What are some of the issues he has with? Rep. Larson: Well let me start first by saying that I believe that the Supreme Court will uphold the law. Q: I was actually going to make a caveat to the question that that we’re not going to say, will they uphold it or not. Rep. Larson: Ok, so let’s assume that they don’t. Then, I think because of the way that the Vice Chair outlined the benefits of the bill and let’s start with pre existing conditions. If you strike down the individual mandate, again, I’m not a constitutional lawyer, but if you strike down that individual mandate then you have an insurable risk issue and because unless they also strike down pre-existing conditions, you would have pre-existing conditions, in effect, with no obligation to purchase insurance. It would be like the ability to drive an automobile, get into an accident, and then say I’d like to buy insurance for this. So, it will create enormous chaos in this system. I believe that the Supreme Court, that in looking at the commerce clause, and Congress’s ability to regulate and prescribe laws for commerce across this great nation, then there is no question that the commerce of health crosses state boundary lines; that they will rule favorably. I also believe that irrespective of how they rule that everybody has acknowledged that there is a lot of work to do as we move towards the exchanges in 2014. But we also know that the American people already benefitting from this act are looking in with eager expectations. And Democrats will continue to fight on behalf of people who are in need of - the more than 44 million were without health insurance – who then would be thrown back into a system where they’d have to go to the emergency room for their only care, which will only further exacerbate a system that‘s trying to work its way out of this, it is making incredible headway. Where they are predicting economically that an additional $1.4 trillion is going to come into this area, that this would seem illogical and blatantly political if the Supreme Court were to rule otherwise. Richard Trumka: First of all, I’d love to have a much longer discussion about the Supreme Court with you, although not today, because what we have is several Justices on the Supreme Court that, while they were being confirmed, talked about how they wouldn't be activist, have become the most radical activist judges we've seen. Just a decision this week against SEIU was a decision that wasn't even in front of them. And they decided a case or an issue that wasn't in front of them. That is radical activism by judges that they so aptly condemned. But what we're going to do on the healthcare, regardless of whether it is upheld or not upheld, we're going to continue to do what we would've done. We've said that this bill isn't the end of healthcare. There's still much more work to be done. And so the day after the decision, or Thursday afternoon, we'll be looking to expand Medicare so that there's Medicare for all. We'll be looking to have a universal program where every American can look the words 'quality health care'. And we'll be pushing people that get elected to agree with us on that. And those that don't, we'll put that out to our members and to the working population and say these people don't want you to have healthcare expanded. They want it to be sort of the survival of the fittest, the law of the jungle. If you're rich enough to get care, well by gosh you should be able to get it, while the other 90-some percent of American who would have a tough time doing that, we'll have to fight. And we'll be fighting for them to make sure that we get quality health care for the rest of the country in compliance with the wishes of the country. Because the vast, vast, vast majority of American people think that one, the healthcare system that existed previously was broken, needed change, and two, every American should have healthcare. Rep. Becerra: Probably the worst outcome we could see is a 5-4 decision. Because I think that will go, unfortunately, a long way in confirming this growing belief in the gut of the American people that the Supreme Court no longer cares so much about the Constitution. It cares more about politics. And so I hope, for the sake of the institution, which this democracy has respected since the birth of the nation, that the justices, who too often play politics on the court, will recognize that we have a chance to move forward, abiding by the Constitution and abiding by the interest of the American public to have access to decent quality healthcare. And so, as President Trumka said, after tomorrow, many of us are going to do everything we would've done the same way. We're going to continue to fight to improve healthcare, whether it's making sure we take care of the sustained growth rate issue, or so-called 'doc fix', to resolve that, or whether it's fighting the efforts of conservative extremists to privatize Social Security and Medicare and turn it into a coupon. There is work to do. And so, regardless of what the Supreme Court does tomorrow, we have to continue to work to improve healthcare for all Americans. But we should all take some time tonight to pray a little to make sure that the Supreme Court doesn't come out with another 5-4 decision which, once again, unmasks its political tendencies more than its desire to uphold the Constitution. Rep. Larson: We will also be in a position, because the Republicans have said so, if it's a 5-4 decision as the Vice Chairman has outlined, that they have said they are going to repeal every aspect of the Affordable Healthcare Act. So we will be dealing with a group that cares little about creating jobs for the country – and by the way I would remind people of the jobs that were created under the Affordable Healthcare Act as well – but the dismantling of these programs for the individuals who are already in receipt of the programs themselves. That is how myopic they have become in their pursuit. And apparently if they don't succeed, Mitt Romney has said he will. Thank you very much. # # #
06.26.2012	(Washington, DC) – Members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation today announced more than $4.7 million in federal grants to create or save 36 law enforcement jobs in the state. Awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s COPS Hiring Program (CHP), these grants create new positions, and save positions lost or in jeopardy of being lost due to local budget cuts. The 2012 program requires that all new hires must be recent military veterans. “These grants will benefit Connecticut in a variety of important ways,” Lieberman said. “Not only do they make our neighborhoods safer by putting more police on the streets, but they also create real jobs that help heroic veterans transition into the workforce.”“I know from professional experience that nothing matters more to law enforcement than the professionals on the beat who are enabled and enhanced by these grant,” said Blumenthal. “The skilled and dedicated police of Connecticut need this assistance so they can out gun and out man crooks and anyone seeking to do harm in our neighborhoods and communities.”“With cities and towns continuing to face tight budgets, police departments across Connecticut are constantly being asked to do more with less,” said DeLauro. “These grants will help New Haven and Waterbury alleviate some of that pressure, preventing harmful cuts and ensuring police officers remain on the beat to help reduce crime in our communities.”“As members of the United States Armed Forces our veterans have shown they possess the discipline and commitment to our country’s principles that mirror that of our community’s police officers,” Larson said. “I am very pleased that the White House sees the potential in our returning veterans and are offering them the chance to begin another career in public service. Whether it is through this program, or our recently introduced Veterans Job Match programs in the construction and manufacturing sectors, we owe it to those who have served to make sure our veterans have access to good-paying jobs.”“The COPS program has helped meet a critical need in towns across Connecticut, and these funds will keep our communities safer and create jobs for our returning veterans,” said Murphy. “This funding is especially important as tough economic times squeeze local police budget and drive crime rates higher. Our state's police forces have been particularly strained in recent years and these additional officers will give local law enforcement a much-needed boost.”“At the job fairs I hosted across eastern Connecticut and in advocating for federal legislation like the VOW to Hire Heroes Act, hiring military veterans has been a priority for me,” said Courtney. “By allowing the City to hire veterans, it further fulfills our obligation to the men and women who served in our military. This targeted assistance will make the streets of Norwich safer and provide great assistance to Chief Fusaro and his Department, which participated in my recent career fair in Norwich.” Connecticut received a total of $4,745,037 to create or save 36 law enforcement jobs. The City of Hartford was awarded $1,745,037 to hire 12 officers; The City of New Haven received $750,000 to hire 6 officers; The Norwich Police Department received $500,000 to hire 4 officers; and The City of Waterbury received $1,750,000 to hire 14 officers. The 2012 CHP program was changed to require that all new officers hired under the grant be military veterans who have served 180 days of active military service since September 11, 2001. CHP grants go directly to law enforcement agencies to hire new and/or rehire career law enforcement officers in an effort to increase their community policing capacity and crime prevention efforts. The grants provide 75 percent funding for three years of salaries and benefits for full-time newly-hired or rehired officers. In addition to pledging to hire veterans, plans to address specific problems such as increased gun violence or homicide rates were considered.
06.25.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01), one of the leading advocates for comprehensive campaign finance reform in the House, released the following statement on the Supreme Court decision to affirm the Citizens United ruling: “I am deeply disappointed that, after seeing how harmful the torrent of unregulated, undisclosed, secret money they unleashed with Citizens United, the same five Justices have decided to double down and prevent states from acting to protect our elections when there is a clear cut need. “Montana’s law was based on hard learned lessons from a time when their ‘Copper Kings’ owned the state government lock, stock and barrel. For a hundred years it served to protect the state from the excesses we’re seeing all too clearly across the country today. Unfortunately, now it’s just a race to the bottom to see how long it takes today’s copper kings from reasserting their control.” # # #
06.25.2012	Without Congressional action, subsidized Stafford interest rates will go from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1 WASHINGTON, DC – With just five days remaining to prevent the interest rate on subsidized Stafford student loans from doubling from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent, Senators Joe Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal, and Representatives Joe Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Chris Murphy and Jim Himes today again reiterated calls for swift action to prevent the rate increase. "I have long supported efforts to make higher education affordable to all Americans," said Senator Lieberman. "During these difficult economic times, it is my hope that a bi-partisan coalition comes together and ensures that students and their families do not suffer from a rise in student loan interest rates." "A stealth tax will be imposed on thousands of Connecticut students if Congress continues to stall and stonewall," Senator Blumenthal said. "The average impact on 73,000 Connecticut students will be as high as $1,000 in a hidden stealth tax if the interest rate rises to 6.8 percent in the absence of action keeping it at 3.4 percent. An investment in our students is an investment in our future - plain and simple. The lack of action on making education more affordable has been infuriating and unnecessary at a time when Connecticut and the nation need skilled and educated workers most. Partisan stonewalling on this issue has damaged our democracy, but Connecticut's delegation stands strong and will keep the pressure on as this deadline looms." "The American people are looking for swift, long-term relief on student loan debt, and that effort begins with ensuring that these rates do not double in five days," said Congressman Courtney. "At a time when Americans owe more in student-loan debt than credit card debt and auto loan debt, it is critical that we prevent interest rates from rising further. We cannot allow a de-facto tax increase on middle- and low-income families to exacerbate this problem, especially as we work to continue our economic recovery." "Only by keeping college affordable and available can we continue to have a strong middle class and good job growth in America," said Congresswoman DeLauro. "But in recent years, that principle has been threatened, due to the cost of college continuing to increase. That is why we need to pass legislation that stops the doubling of the student loan interest rate and allows students to graduate without a mountain of debt or needlessly placing all of the costs on working American families. That is what is at stake here, and that is why we have to stop this rate from doubling in five days." "As our nation continues its recovery from the worst economic crisis since The Great Depression, we should not be placing an unnecessary burden on our recent and future graduates," Congressman Larson said. "When nations around the world are investing in research and development and education, we should not be putting up unnecessary obstacles for those seeking to enhance their careers through education. Congress must act today to keep student loan rates affordable." "As one of the few Members of Congress still paying back his student loans, I know both the burden of loan payments and the benefit that lower payments can provide," said Congressman Murphy. "These higher interest rates could mean $5,000 in increased costs for young graduates. In this economy that's too much to bear." "Access to higher education can't be a luxury—it is an economic imperative and the best way to increase opportunity for every student, no matter where they live or what their family's financial situation," Himes said. "We will never compete with China, India, and the other nations around the world unless everyone who is ready for and wants to go to college can pursue higher education. We must act now to keep college loan rates low." Congressman Courtney introduced legislation on January 25 to permanently cap the interest rate at 3.4 percent. Almost 150 days later, his and other legislative solutions are being stonewalled by House Republican leadership and Senate Republican filibusters. According to the non-partisan group U. S. PIRG, if Congress does nothing, borrowers who take out the maximum $23,000 in subsidized student loans will see their interest balloon to an additional $5,200 over a 10-year repayment period and $11,300 over a 20-year repayment period. ###
06.19.2012	(HARTFORD, CT) – Governor Dannel P. Malloy, Senators Joseph I. Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today announced that the City of Hartford has been awarded a $10 million federal TIGER IV (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) Grant that will be used to tie transit to the Greater Hartford region’s employment and housing centers in an effort to promote job creation and economic revitalization. This grant will be used to fund the Intermodal Triangle Project, a major transportation investment in downtown Hartford. The Intermodal Triangle Project is the key to linking the ongoing investments to make Union Station into a regional intermodal transportation hub with the rest of downtown Hartford through improved transit, pedestrian and biking infrastructure. This funding will leverage public investments to advance the city’s role as the region’s center for commerce, culture and urban living through access to a safe and efficient transportation system. At the center of this vision is increased funding for the city’s “iQuilt Project.” The iQuilt looks to link downtown Hartford’s historical and cultural attractions through a pedestrian walkway known as a “GreenWalk.” Over the last half decade, federal lawmakers representing Hartford have fought for, and received, a number of federal grants that have helped the project progress. “This project focuses on linking Hartford’s job centers, housing and downtown together by investing in a multimodal transportation hub. Taken together with the ongoing bus rapid transit and high speed rail projects in the area, this grant will help lay the foundation for a transportation network that will drive economic growth throughout the region,” Governor Malloy said. “This important federal funding will help make Hartford and its surrounding neighborhoods more vibrant and ensure that we have access to efficient and clean transportation options.” “This important project will come at time when more commuters will be using the New Britain-Hartford Busway and the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line,” Senator Lieberman said. “In addition to helping these commuters get to work and back home, this is the type of investment in our infrastructure that helps to create jobs and keeps our economy growing.” “This visionary project will revolutionize transportation in the capital region – with thousands of construction jobs, critical investment, and mass transit benefitting the entire state,” Senator Blumenthal said. “The fight for this funding has united and galvanized our delegation. Smart transportation means smart growth that will help put Connecticut back to work and our economy back on track.” “The iQuilt project ties together our capitol city’s past, present and future by creating a sustainable and cultural attraction for all of Connecticut to enjoy,” Congressman Larson said. “This substantial grant will go a long way towards not only making this project a reality, but also increasing Hartford’s intermodal transportation, which will benefit our entire region. I want to thank Governor Malloy, Mayor Segarra, Oz Griebel of the Metro Hartford Alliance and all of our community leaders who have worked tirelessly to help achieve this grant.” David Fay, Executive Director of the Bushnell, said, “This is tremendous news for our community. This grant is an enormous step in the right direction as we seek to create a sustainable Hartford that uses its cultural and historical attractions in projects such as the iQuilt to promote intermodal transportation. I want to thank our leaders in Washington as well as here in Hartford for their terrific work in securing this funding.” Key elements for the project include: Enhancements and renovation of Union Station; Special signal and lane treatment for CTfastrak terminus; Special gateway treatment of rail overpass; Major bus stop enhancements around the station, including local bus layover; Enhanced intermodal transfer signage for pedestrians and vehicles; New pedestrian signs and maps; and Enhanced roadway and pedestrian lighting. ###
06.15.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the decision by the Administration to protect DREAM-eligible youth from deportation: “I applaud President Obama and Secretary Napolitano. With immigration reform blocked by the Republican Congress, they made the right decision today to provide young people who would qualify for the Dream Act a little relief. “Let’s be clear. This is not amnesty. This is simply the smart choice to focus our limited resources on finding and deporting violent criminals, felons, and repeat offenders instead of going after talented young people who, personally, have done everything right and want nothing more than to live their lives as patriotic Americans. “Democrats stand with the President on this issue. Congress needs to act on the DREAM Act and comprehensive immigration reform based on the values that helped make our nation of immigrants so great, so we can build a stronger future together.” # # #
06.08.2012	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Joseph I. Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal joined Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today in announcing $1.96 million in federal assistance to the town of East Windsor to help complete a sewer extension project originally funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “These Rural Development program provide critical support to our local towns, and I’m delighted that East Windsor will benefit from this significant funding,” Senator Lieberman said. “I am working with my colleagues from other Northeastern states to ensure that, during the consideration of the Farm Bill in the Senate, towns and villages across Connecticut, like East Windsor, do not lose their eligibility for future funds.” "This assistance will help East Windsor meet a critical goal -- improving water and waste disposal services throughout the town," said Senator Blumenthal. "We must recognize the importance of helping rural communities better serve their residents, as this funding will help do." The assistance, provided by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Office of Rural Development, includes a loan of $1,435,000 and a grant of $534,375 to include the installation of approximately 8,300 linear feet of sewer main as well as associated manholes. “This funding will go a long way in ensuring that the town of East Windsor has access to the most up-to-date water and waste disposal services available,” Congressman Larson said. “At a time when municipalities all over the country are struggling, it is increasingly important for us not to forget about the needs of our rural communities.” “East Windsor is so fortunate to receive this assistance for our North Road sewer extension,” Said East Windsor First Selectwoman Denise Menard. “This federal grant will help East Windsor work toward its goal of smart business growth and economic development along the North Road corridor. We thank Senators Blumenthal and Lieberman and Congressman Larson for all of their assistance in helping us obtain this grant.” The previous Recovery Act funding was allocated in 2010 and included a loan of $2.18 Million and a grant of $707,000. # # #
06.08.2012	Washington, DC—The Connecticut Congressional delegation voiced its support today for a $75 million federal loan the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) awarded to HealthyCT. The loan enables HealthyCT to launch a new non-profit, consumer-driven health insurance company, known as a Consumer Operated and Oriented Plan, or CO-OP. Because HealthyCT is a non-profit, any profit will be invested back into the plan, keeping premiums affordable and ensuring access to quality, affordable health care for people across Connecticut. “We are pleased to see CMS has awarded this loan to HealthyCT, which we, along with more than 100 organizations and individuals, strongly advocated for,” the delegation said. “Connecticut has not seen a new player in the insurance market in more than a quarter century, just a shrinking market—none of which are not-for-profit. HealthyCT will help Connecticut residents by providing a new healthcare option, spurring competition and creating much-needed jobs. We look forward to watching HealthyCT enter our state’s quality health insurance market.” CO-OPs were created by the Affordable Care Act as reasonable, consumer-friendly additions to the insurance marketplace and, beginning in 2014, can offer plans through Affordable Insurance Exchanges.
06.07.2012	WASHINGTON, DC—Connecticut’s Congressional delegation released the following statement this evening regarding Northrop Grumman’s decision to suddenly close its Norwalk facility. The delegation met with Northrop Grumman leadership late this afternoon. “We are extremely disappointed with Northrop Grumman’s sudden decision to close its Norwalk facility. Along with the Governor, we have expressed our disappointment that Northrop Grumman did not engage us in a dialog to discuss the terms under which the facility could remain open. After decades of work, side-by-side, with a company that employs hundreds of our constituents, the company made a drastic change with little regard for the serious consequences of their actions and without sufficient notice or explanation. We have pressed the company, and the company has agreed to share the factors in its decision with us. We are extremely concerned for the employees who may be affected by their decision, and our offices are ready to assist those workers in any way we can.” ###
06.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Susan Swain on C-SPAN Washington Journal this morning to discuss the economy and the lack of action on jobs by the Republican leadership. * * Watch the full segment with Chairman Larson * * Excerpted Remarks: “I think the public is frustrated at the lack of initiative here in Congress when we have so many millions of Americans out of work and seeking it.” “What the country expects is for us to be pulling together, focused on putting the nation back to work, irrespective of whether you like Barack Obama or his policies or not, do you like the American people enough to care about them and put them back to work and let them find the simple dignity that comes from sitting across the table from the spouse and knowing that they have a job and can provide for them?” “Here’s my philosophy, it’s no different than Roosevelt’s and I think just a flat out common sense approach that Americans have: job creation equals deficit reduction. More than a third of the deficit can be reduced if we took the unemployment numbers below six percent. How do you get there? You get there by investing in the American people. Of course we want private sector jobs to be created, which under the Obama Administration have been created, more so than even during the Bush Administration... But here is a time when you need your country to stand behind its people. Not in terms of handing out an unemployment check, but in terms of putting them back to work.” “…People are saying ‘well jeez, you know, I understand the need for us to be austere and tighten our belts, but my god, we’ve got to go back to work as well and why is it that we can’t rebuild our roads, our bridges, our sewage systems? Why can’t we get broadband into our schools? Why can’t we put our trade industry back to work? Why can’t we be innovative and make these investments? Further, why can’t we engage the private sector in this effort?’... We’re America for God’s sake. We can do this. And instead, you know, we find ourselves in these small petty games, arguing back and forth over issues that really don’t translate too much to somebody who is out of work.” “It’s American ingenuity, American innovation, hard work and labor that produces wealth… In order to create wealth there are investments that have be made – whether those investments are made from the private sector or whether they are government investments. Government investments in their people; in their education system; in their infrastructure – the roads and bridges along which our commerce from the private sector flow - and also in healthcare and disease and science and innovation, these are areas we’d like to augment and help.” “Americans all need an infrastructure, starting basically with an education that’s sound and fundamental, that gives them the tools and creativity and fosters the kind of growth that we know will lead to jobs. We want people to be wildly successful. We know that we live in an entrepreneurial time where the focus has got to be on innovating in a global economy and that people are going to take risk. With risk comes great reward. There’s also a chance that… people who work hard and play by the rules can get hurt. That’s why we developed a safety net. That’s why we have Social Security. That’s why we have Medicare. That’s why we have the Affordable Healthcare Act.” Watch the full segment with Rep. Larson here. # # #
05.31.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded a decision by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) that will allow federal employee insurance plans to cover a behavioral health treatment for autism known as Applied Behavioral Analysis (ABA) as a medical treatment. Until now, ABA, which is an evidenced based therapy, was considered an educational service and coverage was limited. In a letter sent to insurance carriers authorizing them to include ABA services in their coverage, OPM noted that, after evaluating the status of ABA for children with autism, the OPM Benefit Review Panel “concluded that there is now sufficient evidence to categorize ABA as medical therapy.” “With the number of kids with autism in this country estimated at 1 in every 88, it's imperative that we ensure that families have access to the care they need. The decision by OPM that ABA should be covered as a medical therapy is a big step in the right direction,” Congressman Larson said. “My hope is that their determination will compel the United States Senate to follow the House’s lead in passing the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act as a part of their Defense Authorization bill, to ensure that ABA is covered as a medical service for military dependents with autism in TRICARE too.” The Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288), which has 70 bipartisan co-sponsors, would require TRICARE - the military healthcare system - to provide active duty military families, and military retirees, with children with Autism full access to ABA therapy as a medical treatment. The bill was drafted in response to the appeal of a constituent – Rachel Kenyon of Manchester, the wife of Sergeant Major William Kenyon of the Connecticut National Guard and mother of two. Kenyon brought the issue to Larson's attention at an event highlighting the struggles that military families with children with autism face with their TRICARE coverage. Last week the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act , which included the measure, by a bipartisan vote of 299 members in favor. The bill is now awaiting action in the Senate. # # #
05.31.2012	Washington, DC—The Connecticut Congressional Delegation responded today to the joint Federal Energy Regulatory Commission/North America Electric Reliability Corporation report into the causes and unacceptable response of Connecticut Light & Power and its parent company, Northeast Utilities, to last October’s snowstorm that left more than two million households without power, including over 850,000 in Connecticut. The delegation called for the investigation last year. “We were deeply troubled and frustrated by two major power disruptions in as many months, which wreaked havoc on the lives of our constituents, and called on FERC to investigate the reliability of Connecticut’s electric system. This important investigation by FERC and NERC has resulted in recommendations that must be taken seriously to ensure Connecticut residents and businesses will not find themselves in a similar situation again. Some of the report confirms what we already knew—such as downed trees were the leading cause of outages—but also makes clear utility companies need to be more vigilant to ensure a debacle like last fall is not repeated. We urge CL&P and Northeast Utilities to work with the Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection to ensure trees and other vegetation are better maintained to reduce the severity of future power outages.”
05.21.2012	SIMSBURY—Today, Senator Joe Lieberman, Senator Richard Blumenthal, Congressman John Larson, and Congressman Chris Murphy announced new legislation to create a U.S. National Park Service Wild and Scenic Rivers Act protective designation for the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook, through the ten towns of Avon, Bloomfield, Burlington, Canton, East Granby, Farmington, Granby, Hartland, Simsbury, and Windsor. The bill is sponsored in the U.S. Senate by Lieberman and Blumenthal, and in the House of Representatives by Murphy and Larson. The lawmakers were joined at the announcement by Connecticut Department of Energy and Environmental Protection Commissioner Dan Esty, state and local leaders, and river preservation advocates. “While the faces around the movement to protect the Farmington River may change, one thing is clear: we will continue to push for the protection of the Farmington River and Salmon Brook, one of Connecticut’s true natural treasures,” Lieberman said. “It is part of our history, part of our heritage, and we need to preserve it for future generations to come.” "The Farmington River was here long before us and we must ensure it stays clean and free-flowing for the next generation to enjoy,” said Blumenthal. “This proposal adds key resources to that enduring fight and we are fortunate as a delegation to have such strong partners in the local advocates and officials who made this day possible." “This bill will provide much-needed funding to help preserve one of our region’s most valuable and critical natural bodies of water: the Farmington River,” Larson said. “From Nancy Johnson, myself, Joe Lieberman and Chris Dodd in past sessions to Chris Murphy and Richard Blumenthal today, this has been a long-term bipartisan effort to ensure that the beauty of the Farmington River will be preserved for generations to come. Time and again our delegation, especially Senator Lieberman, has been proven to be national leaders in the defense of our environment. I want to thank all of the community leaders and elected officials who came out today in support of this bill as we look forward to helping push its passage through Congress.” “This bill will help protect the beauty, ecological diversity, and recreational opportunities on 62 miles of the Farmington River for generations to come by preserving its treasured natural values – and provide tens of thousands of dollars in Park Service grants,” said Murphy. “To the local advocates, town, community, and state leaders, and my colleagues here today – thank you for coming together to help keep Connecticut beautiful.” The bill is the product of a bi-partisan, community-driven process begun nearly a decade ago, when these ten towns came together to protect the Lower Farmington River. The towns have partnered with federal lawmakers to finally make the designation a reality. The upper portion of the river was given protected status in 1994. Congress created the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System in 1968 to slow the rate at which the country’s rivers were being dammed and degraded by development. The designation is designed for those rivers with ‘outstanding resource values’ (scenic, recreational, geologic, fish and wildlife, historic, or cultural) to ensure that they remain free-flowing. ###
05.18.2012	Congressman Says Local Advocacy Critical to Measure’s Success Click Here to Watch Congressman Larson's Floor Speech in Support of the Bill WASHINGTON – In a huge victory for military families struggling with autism, the annual defense budget that was passed by the House of Representatives today includes an important provision authored by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) that will ensure that TRICARE – the military healthcare program – fully covers the treatments that military kids with autism need. Larson’s measure, the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act (H.R. 2288), which had 70 bipartisan cosponsors, was written in response to the appeal of a constituent – Rachel Kenyon, the wife of Sergeant Major William Kenyon of the Connecticut National Guard and mother of two – who spoke out at an event about the many struggles that military families with children with autism face with their TRICARE coverage. “Today, the House of Representatives affirmed its commitment that just as we leave no soldier behind, we leave no military family behind either,” Larson said. “This would not have happened without the determination and strength of Rachel and the thousands of parents just like her fighting every day for their kids. With this action in the House today, we did right by Rachel and her family, as well as military families across the country by honoring their sacrifices by making sure they do not face barriers in access to care for their children that have an autism diagnosis.” “I want to thank Representative Walter Jones, who was the lead sponsor on the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act; Chairman McKeon and Ranking Member Smith, and all of the cosponsors of the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act on both sides of the aisle for their efforts to make this happen,” Larson added. Specifically, the language included in the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 (NDAA) will ensure that the children of Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps members that have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis will no longer face caps in TRICARE on a behavioral health treatment, known as applied behavior analysis. It would also ensure that the children of military retirees that have an ASD diagnosis would have access to applied behavior analysis treatment. Congressman Larson voted for final passage of the NDAA, although he had some concerns with other provisions included in the bill. “While I am concerned with some of the other provisions of this legislation, I voted for final passage because passing this bill was the right thing to do to move the process forward, and I am confident that many of the differences can be addressed when the bill is considered in conference.” The legislation must now be approved by the Senate before it can become law. # # #
05.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT) was joined bipartisanly by nearly 100 Members in unveiling the Victory for Veterans Stamp Act to help veterans, pay down the debt, and support the U.S. Postal Service. The Act, which is modeled on the successful Victory Stamp drive of World War II, is intended to allow the public to give back to those who have served our nation by directly funding employment and training programs for veterans, as well as reducing the national debt and helping support the U.S. Postal Service, through the voluntary purchase of a special supplementary stamp. “In going through the letters my mother and father sent to each other during World War II, I couldn’t help but notice a unique ‘Victory’ stamp that was used at the time as a means to help support the war effort. That stands in contrast to today where it seems like the only ones being asked to sacrifice for the wars are our troops and their families,” said Larson. “The Victory for Veterans Stamp is intended to call upon American’s sense of patriotism and desire to do what they can for our troops and the nation. It’s easy. It’s patriotic. And it’s American.” “I’m proud that so many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree and have come together demonstrating that when it comes to veterans and the nation, we can put partisanship aside and work together,” Larson added. “I especially want to thank my colleagues across the aisle Bill Shuster, Tom Rooney, and Walter Jones for their strong support for this idea and our veterans.” “The Victory for Veterans Stamp Act is a piece of legislation that offers every American the chance to give back to our men and women in uniform and say to them, 'thank you for your service.' There is no greater cause than taking care of our fellow brothers and sisters who have sacrificed so much for our safety and national security,” said Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA), the lead Republican sponsor. “I applaud the efforts of Congressman Larson, as well as my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for helping to move this important piece of legislation forward.” A summary of the bill can be read here. In addition to Larson and Shuster, Members who have agreed to support the bill include: Gary Ackerman (D-NY), Jason Altmire (D-PA), Rob Andrews (D-NJ), Joe Baca (D-CA), Lou Barletta (R-PA), Karen Bass (D-CA), Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Tim Bishop (D-NY), Earl Blumenaur (D-OR), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Mary Bono Mack (R-CA), Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Robert Brady (D-PA), Mike Capuano (D-MA), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Andre Carson (D-IN), Ben Chandler (D-KY), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Jim Costa (D-CA), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Mark Critz (D-PA), Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Charlie Dent (R-PA), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Norm Dicks (D-WA), Robert Dold (R-IL), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Donna Edwards (D-MD), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Chaka Fattah (D-PA), Chuck Fleischmann (R-TN), Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ), Jim Gerlach (R-PA), Gene Green (D-TX), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Ruben Hinojosa (D-TX), Tim Holden (D-PA), Steve Israel (D-NY), Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-IL), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Steve LaTourette (R-OH), John Lewis (D-GA), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Thomas Marino (R-PA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), Thad McCotter (R-MI), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Jerry McNerney (D-CA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Chris Murphy (D-CT), Tim Murphy (R-PA), Ed Perlmutter (D-CO), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Mike Quigley (D-IL), Nick Rahall (D-WV), Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Tom Rooney (R-FL), Mike Ross (D-AK), Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Jose Serrano (D-NY), Terri Sewell (D-AL), Heath Shuler (D-NC), Albio Sires (D-NJ), Betty Sutton (D-OH), Bennie Thompson (D-MS), Glen Thompson (R-PA), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Pat Tiberi (R-OH), John Tierney (D-MA), Edolphus Towns (D-NY), Mike Turner (R-OH), Nydia Velaszuez (D-NY), Tim Walz (D-MN), Mel Watt (D-NC), Peter Welch (D-VT), Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), John Yarmuth (D-KY), and Don Young (R-AK). # # #
05.15.2012	May 24th job match event to feature over dozen companies, nearly 100 job openings HARTFORD – On April 27, 2012, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the launch of the Veterans Job Match, an initiative aimed at matching unemployed and underemployed veterans with local businesses who are currently hiring, led by the Connecticut Department of Labor, the Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs, the Connecticut Center For Advanced Technology (CCAT) and other local organizations . Since that time more than a dozen manufactures, with over 100 job openings, have signed up to participate in the May 24th job match event. With the first event right around the corner, Congressman John Larson called on all veterans interested in pursuing a career in manufacturing to take advantage of this unique opportunity and sign up on the Connecticut Department of Labor’s homepage as soon as possible. “As Americans, we owe our men and women in uniform an incalculable debt of gratitude. Whether it was in Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam, Korea or during World War II, our veterans put their lives on the line to defend our freedom. They deserve more than lip service from a grateful nation,” Congressman Larson said. “Unfortunately, for too many veterans, the challenge of finding employment in this difficult economy makes their life when they leave the service much harder than it should be. That is why we have created the CT Veterans Job Match.” Early enrollment from employers indicate that well over a dozen manufacturers, with close to 100 job openings, are planning on attending the May 24th job match at the Middletown Armed Forces Reserve Center. The initial role out of the Veterans Job Match is a two-part event. The first event, on May 24th, focuses on manufacturing jobs. Details about the second event, which will focus on trades related careers, will be released prior to the May 24th event. Veterans interested in the manufacturing part of this initiative are urged to sign up by visiting the CT Department of Labor here and to call Congressman Larson’s office, at (860) 278-8888, with any questions. ###
05.10.2012	(Hartford, CT) – U.S. Senators Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) joined Congressman John Larson (CT-1) today in announcing $5.5 million in federal disaster assistance for the Town of West Hartford to pay for cleaning up debris from the October snowstorm that left millions in the Northeast without power for weeks. "The Connecticut delegation worked hard to obtain federal funds to help the state recover from the ravages of Tropical Storm Irene and the October snowstorm last year. FEMA has pledged close to $43 million so far to reimburse the state for the costs of those two disasters," said Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman Joe Lieberman. "This latest funding is a result of the Administration’s disaster declaration related to the snowstorm. FEMA was there for Connecticut after both major disasters last year." "West Hartford well deserves this reimbursement for the hard hit from last year’s October snow storm – a hard hit in financial costs as well as damage and debris," said Senator Blumenthal. "I’m pleased that this money helps make West Hartford whole for the hard work and sacrifice in the wake the storm." "The day after the October snowstorm I joined West Hartford Mayor Scott Slifka in surveying the extensive damage done to the town of West Hartford," Congressman Larson said. "Under the Mayor’s tremendous leadership West Hartford has been able to recover from the storm, but the long term financial effects are still lingering. This funding will go a long way in helping the town recoup some of the damages it sustained last October and I am very grateful to the Obama administration for releasing this assistance." "I want to thank the Connecticut delegation for their hard work and persistence on behalf of the town of West Hartford," West Hartford Mayor Scott Slifka said. "From the moment the power went out until the last tree was removed, our lawmakers at every level of government were engaged and working hard to make sure that West Hartford was reimbursed for every dollar they were eligible." The funds, totaling $5,505,854.39, come in the form of a Public Assistance grant from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The funds represent the full amount requested by West Hartford. Following the storm in October of last year, West Hartford, like many towns and cities across Connecticut, suffered damage from severe wind and precipitation, accumulating more than 338,000 cubic yards of debris on the town’s roads. This Public Assistance Grant is made possible by President Obama’s November 17, 2011 Major Disaster Declaration which the Connecticut Congressional delegation supported. # # #
05.08.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today condemning Senate Republicans for refusing to even debate a bill that would have prevented interest rates on student loans from doubling in July from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent: “Today, the Republican leaders proved once again that they would rather play politics than get to work fixing the problems facing American families. “Keeping students loans from doubling on July 1st should be a no-brainer. Yet instead of helping students and middle class families succeed, House Republicans have voted repeatedly for a budget that doubles student loan interest rates and slashes investments in job training to pay for more tax giveaways to millionaires. And now Senate Republicans, on a party line vote, are preventing the Senate from even debating the best way to protect students and their families. “What I think our Republican colleagues forget is that this isn’t just a Washington policy debate. This is about real people, really hurting. People like Lauren Mishkin, a Norwich mother who is putting two sons through college right now. She’s done everything a parent is supposed to do for their kids. She scrimped and she saved. And when that wasn’t enough, she borrowed against her mortgage and her 401(k). And now even that isn’t enough. “As she said to me in tears last week, ‘When only the rich can follow their dreams, we have a problem.’ It’s people like Lauren, who work hard and play by the rules, who are being squeezed by legislators frozen in the ice of their own indifference. And she’s right. We have a real problem.” # # #
05.04.2012	“With action from this Congress, there’s no reason a better America can't begin today.” WASHINGTON –Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 115,000 jobs in April and the unemployment rate fell to 8.1 percent: “Today's jobs report contains some good news: the unemployment rate continues to fall and the private sector has added jobs for 26 consecutive months. But job growth is still too weak, leaving millions of Americans struggling to make ends meet month after month. “Nearly 500 days into the 112th Congress, the Republican majority continues to stonewall any action to address this situation. Eight months after the President introduced the American Jobs Act, which was designed around provisions historically supported by both Democrats and Republicans, the Republican leadership has refused to even bring the bill to the Floor for consideration. “This Congress is on pace to be the least productive in 40 years; at a time when we can least afford it. The American people deserve better. It's time for Republicans to join Democrats in support of a common-sense agenda that creates jobs, rebuilds our infrastructure and expands our manufacturing base. With action from this Congress, there’s no reason a better America can't begin today.” # # #
05.02.2012	HARTFORD – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra were joined by a number of community leaders and their respective organizations in announcing a new “Social Justice Initiative.” During a press conference at City Hall leaders from organizations such as the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center, the Urban Alliance, the Hartford Economic Development Company (HEDCO), the Connecticut General Assembly’s Black and Hispanic Caucus, Connecticut Health Foundation, the Voices of Women of Color and faith leaders discuss how the new initiative would be aimed at addressing the achievement gap and inequalities in healthcare and economics that exist in the city. “After what began almost a year ago with the visit of the Congressional Black Caucus to Hartford, I am very pleased to be able to join so many of our community leaders today in announcing the next steps in addressing the problems of inequality that have plagued our city for so long,” Congressman Larson said. “The commitment shown by so many here today is inspiring and gives me confidence that with Mayor Segarra’s leadership, Hartford is certainly on a path towards closing these gaps.” "Despite the great progress that the Country, the State of Connecticut and Hartford -- Connecticut's Capital City -- have made in the last 50 years to promote equality and expand opportunity, there is still more work to do,” Said Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra. “Hartford is a majority minority community, we have extraordinary health disparities, a low median income and low educational attainment, and all in a city that was once the wealthiest and most innovative communities in the world. The only way that we will completely close the achievement gap between inner-city youth and their suburban counterparts, erase all economic inequalities and close the health disparities gap, is through collaboration, pulling together towards a common end -- an end that removes barriers, provides equal opportunity and ensures fairness for all." Last June Congressman Larson invited members of the Congressional Black Caucus to Hartford to participate in the 200th birthday celebration of Harriet Beecher Stowe. During the course of their visit, the members participated in a “Call to Action: A Conversation on Race & Social Justice.” The conversation brought local, state and national stakeholders together to identify key steps necessary to eliminate racial disparities. The steps were recorded and today the group discussed how the city will use them to build towards a stronger community. Citizens are invited to participate by visiting the “Call to Action” web site. “The Stowe Center is proud to work with our community partners - including Congressman John B. Larson and Mayor Pedro E. Segarra - as Hartford moves forward to address these critical issues. We think Harriet Beecher Stowe would be proud,” said Katherine D. Kane, Executive Director of the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center. Additionally, the leaders also announced the new “Name It, Claim It” program that invites Hartford students to participate in a contest to rename the “Social Justice Initiative.” Students can enter by going to the “Call to Action” web site and submitting their ideas for a chance to win a variety of prizes. ###
05.02.2012	(Hartford, CT) –The Connecticut Congressional delegation today called on federal authorities to investigate complaints of potentially deceptive and misleading practices being used by an organization soliciting donations and claiming to help veterans in Connecticut. “We are writing to urge the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to investigate complaints and concerns about the ‘Veterans Support Organization’ (VSO) raised by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), as well as other constituents and veterans generally regarding alleged deceptive and misleading practices,” the Delegation wrote in a letter to FTC Chairman Jonathan Leibowitz. “The VFW is also deeply troubled, as are we, by IRS 990 filings showing that that this organization has seemingly used only a small portion or percentage of millions of dollars in donations for charitable purposes such as grants and assistance programs to help veterans.” “The VFW of Connecticut greatly appreciates the delegation’s quick reaction to our concerns about unscrupulous solicitation of charitable donations by individuals seeking money on behalf of veterans, when little to none of those funds are ever given to programs for veterans,” said John Hollis, Senior State Commander of the VFW. VSO operates in 17 states, including Connecticut. IRS filings show that VSO received $5.8 million in revenue in 2009, nearly all of it from donations, but distributed only $379,000 for grants and assistance for veterans. The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Jonathan Leibowitz Chairman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20580 Dear Chairman Leibowitz: We are writing to urge the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to investigate complaints and concerns about the “Veterans Support Organization” (VSO) raised by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), as well as other constituents and veterans generally regarding alleged deceptive and misleading practices. Requests for such an investigation come from Connecticut VFW officials who are concerned that VSO is employing paid solicitors posing as volunteers to collect donations outside of shopping centers. These solicitors claim to be volunteers, but in fact are paid on commission according to the amount of money they collect. The VFW is also deeply troubled, as are we, by IRS 990 filings showing that that this organization has seemingly used only a small portion or percentage of millions of dollars in donations for charitable purposes such as grants and assistance programs to help veterans. IRS filings show that VSO received $5.8 million in revenue in fiscal year 2009-2010, nearly all of it from donations. Yet VSO only distributed $379,000 for grants and assistance for veterans. In contrast, VSO paid $1.5 million in salaries and compensation, including $256,000 for the organization’s CEO. Other large expenses include $325,000 for transportation, $241,000 for office expenses, and $72,000 for uniforms. If these allegations are accurate, the false claims of solicitors who purport to be volunteers but are in fact paid employees, as well as the employees’ false claims about the use of consumer donations, would seem to be deceptive practices under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Since the VSO operates in 17 states, FTC involvement is especially appropriate. In the past, the FTC has pursued organizations that falsely claimed to help police, firefighters, and veterans but actually exploited and sullied their good name. We urge the FTC to continue to prosecute sham charities and protect the credibility and effectiveness of legitimate nonprofit organizations that really help America’s heroes. On behalf of the veterans of Connecticut and all their supporters, including ourselves, we thank you and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Senator Joseph Lieberman Senator Richard Blumenthal Congressman John Larson Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro Congressman Joseph D. Courtney Congressman Jim Himes Congressman Chris Murphy
05.01.2012	Local health centers to get millions in healthcare reform grants HARTFORD – This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced three separate Affordable Care Act grants for two local community healthcare centers in Torrington and East Hartford. Both the Community Health and Wellness Center of Greater Torrington and East Hartford Community Healthcare Inc., have been awarded “Capital Development – Building Capacity Program” grants of $5 million and $2,997,804 respectively. These grants are designed to help expand the existing facilities, improve existing primary care and preventive health serves and serve more patients. Additionally, East Hartford Community Healthcare Inc., has also been awarded a $500,000 “Capital Development – Immediate Facility Improvement Program” grant to address immediate facility and equipment needs. “Two years after its passage, the Affordable Care Act continues to help build stronger and healthier communities,” Congressman Larson said. “Community health centers, like those in Torrington and East Hartford, serve thousands of residents every year and are critical to the health and well-being of so many of our friends and neighbors. I am very pleased to see the hard work of the men and women of these centers go recognized and look forward to their continued success with these grants.” The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced these grants as part of a more than $728 million commitment to 398 renovation and construction projects to community health centers nationwide. Last October Congressman Larson wrote a letter of support to HHS on behalf of both the Community Health and Wellness Center of Greater Torrington and the East Hartford Community Center Inc.’s grant applications. ###
04.27.2012	Hartford, CT – Senators Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), and Representative John Larson (D-CT) today announced that the Winchester Volunteer Fire Department has been approved for a USDA Community Facilities Loan and Grant. The USDA Rural Development grant of $50,000 and loan of $75,000 will allow the Fire Department to purchase a new mini-pumper truck. The truck will help to provide firefighting service to rural areas that do not have access to existing public water infrastructure. This new vehicle will help to protect nearly 11,000 people in the surrounding rural area. “Everyone deserves the basic protection that our brave first responders provide, regardless of location,” Lieberman said. “These firefighters put their life on the line and it is duty to make sure they have the best equipment available grants such as these ensure they have the necessary tools to protect our communities.” “I am pleased that the Winchester Volunteer Fire Department received this loan and grant to improve their ability to assist thousands of residents in rural Connecticut. Access to emergency services is critical for the entire state, and our heroic firefighters deserve strong support as they protect us from harm,” said Senator Blumenthal. “Firefighters are our first line of defense when disaster strikes and the brave men and women who volunteer in Winchester deserve the best equipment available to help in their efforts,” Congressman Larson said. “These federal funds will go a long way for the Winchester Volunteer fire Department in helping ensure that the more rural areas of the community are just as protected as those who are served by the current public water infrastructure.” ###
04.27.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on his vote today on the false choice House Republicans are presenting the nation between keeping college affordable and providing preventative care for families: “By taking his case directly to the nation this week, President Obama made clear that now is not the time to make school more expensive for our young people. But that’s exactly what the Republican majority voted to do in their extreme budget – asking working and middle class families to pay for new tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans by, among other things, allowing interest rates on student loans for seven million Americans to double this year. “The good news is that House Republicans are now embracing President Obama’s plan to keep student loan rates low – saving struggling students and their families over $6 billion this year. “The bad news, and another example of what’s entirely wrong with Washington these days, is that the Republican majority is cynically seeking to force the nation to choose between keeping college loans affordable and providing flu vaccines, or cancer and heart disease screenings for underserved children and their families. “Just last week, House Republicans voted to give away $46 billion dollars to folks like Bain Capital, Paris Hilton, and the Kardashians without offsetting a dime. Today, they demand that we choose between education and healthcare. The hypocrisy is staggering. “House Democrats will continue to fight for student loan fairness, but we reject this false choice. If our Republican colleagues really care about students and their families, they will work with us and the President to prevent the sharp increase in student loan interest rates in a way that doesn’t force families to decide between investing in the future through higher education and receiving the preventative healthcare services they need. “I also look forward to continuing this fight with my colleague, Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) – who has been a national leader on this issue - and urge all who feel strongly about this issue to please come out and attend a forum we will be having this coming Monday at Central Connecticut State University.” # # #
04.27.2012	EAST HARTFORD, CONN. – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), CT Department of Labor Commissioner Glenn Marshall, Elliot Ginsberg of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), Commissioner Linda Schwartz of the Connecticut Department of Veterans Affairs and Congressman Larson’s First Congressional District Veterans Advisory Board announced the launching of the Connecticut Veterans Job Match. Built on the existing framework of the Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match initiative, the Connecticut Veterans Job Match will sign up unemployed veterans and match them with local manufacturing and trade businesses that are hiring. "As our brave men and women return home from service and enter a job market full of uncertainty, we must do everything we can to ensure that they have as many opportunities as possible," Congressman Larson said. "The Veterans Job Match program builds on the early success of the Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match initiative to bring government, private and non-profit resources together to help connect veterans looking for work with local businesses looking for workers. The men and women in uniform sacrifice every day to defend our freedom, the last thing they should have to fight for when they return home is the basic dignity that comes from a job." “When an employer hires a veteran they get a person who brings valuable skills to the workplace, including dependability, motivation, a strong work ethic, and outstanding leadership qualities,” noted Labor Commissioner Glenn Marshall. “This job match will connect employers with individuals that offer these transferable skills and have the strengths needed to help companies grow. At the same time, our veterans are being provided with local jobs that offer good pay and promising futures in the manufacturing industry.” Launched in November of 2011 the CT Manufacturing Job Match initiative has enjoyed early success in identifying 385 job seekers and placing them into three tracks of readiness based on experience and skills. From that pool 97 individuals were identified as “Track one” participants needing no training, 233 were placed in “Track two” needing additional training and 55 were identified as having no previous training or experience, but interested in breaking into the field. Of the 97 “Track one” individuals, 54 individuals came in for interviews with 37 companies at job match events earlier this year and 16 were successfully placed in new jobs. The Veterans Job Match is being launched to coincide with the Heroes for Hire job fair today at Rentschler Field. During the course of the fair, veterans will be able to register with the job match. Additionally, the Veterans Job Match will target a list of 1,000 veterans with manufacturing experience as identified by the State Department of Labor office of Veterans Workforce Development. “Any employer's ‘Best Bet is to Hire a Vet’ because they bring leadership skills, work ethics and enthusiasm to the workplace. One of the greatest challenges to this Nation and our returning veterans is finding jobs for the men and women who served us so well in uniform. Today’s events and the announcements of future opportunities Connecticut is crafting for these veterans are part of 'keeping the promise,'" State Veterans Affairs Commissioner Linda Schwartz said Thursday. "When we send people off to war, America makes a compact with them that when they return we will be here for them. They have stood on the frontiers of freedom around the world now it is our turn to stand for them." “CCAT is proud to be a part of this collaborative effort to help our veterans find exciting and rewarding careers in manufacturing,” stated Elliot Ginsberg, president and CEO, Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, Inc. “With the Veterans Manufacturing Job Match, we are able to ensure opportunities for those who have served our country so well.” Following the sign up period there are two job match events scheduled tentatively for May 24 and June 14 at the Middletown Armed Forces Reserve Center. Veterans interested in participating in this program that were unable to attend Friday’s Heroes for Hire event are encouraged to sign up for the job match by visiting the CT Department of Labor’s web site. ###
04.20.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Martin Bashir on MSNBC yesterday to discuss the House Republican Budget and their plan to cut $34 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (otherwise known as food stamps) while giving huge tax cuts to the wealthiest in the nation. You can watch the interview here. Below is the transcript: ________________________________________________________________________________________________ Martin Bashir: Joining us now is John Larson, Democratic Congressman of Connecticut. Good afternoon, sir. Rep. Larson: Good afternoon, Martin. Glad to be with you. Martin Bashir: You took to the House Floor Wednesday to talk about these cuts, invoking FDR where he talked about making choices based on values. Rep. Larson: Correct. Martin Bashir: But there are some saying that Christian teaching does not encourage governments to take responsibility for the poor--that instead should be in the hands of the individual. Do you agree? Rep. Larson: Well of course not. Of course we all remember that Jesus famously said, “Render unto Caesar what is Caesar's and unto the Lord what is the Lord's.” But whether it's the Sermon on the Mount or whether it's Matthew as you just described, he certainly demonstrated a need for us to care to the least amongst us. The least amongst us, when we're talking about this however, amounts to 400 percent of poverty. And so frankly, this is the middle class as well as the least amongst us that have been impacted here. And what we’re talking about is--you're right, Martin--it's about values and choices. Martin Bashir: But you see sir, I'm a little bit confused, because last month Republicans used the Church to attack the President, saying he was riding roughshod over Christian conscience. But now, when the Church challenges Republicans, well, they simply ignore the Bishops. Rep. Larson: Right, they say never mind. Yeah, well, double standards here in Washington happen quite frequently, or as my good friend Paul Begala says, it's a false equivalence. You know, that's what I think is getting through to the American public though, Martin, and I commend the Bishops for their statement. And certainly I think America is in tune with this, especially recovering from the worst recession since the Great Depression, and so many amongst us who are hurting and suffering. And to add that extra pain to it--what Roosevelt said is they seem to be frozen in the ice of their own indifference towards what they do to their fellow Americans. Martin Bashir: Yeah, it's a shocking statement. Paul Ryan was asked about the letter on Fox News this morning and after trying to sidestep the issue, his response was, quote: "Uh, are these not all the Catholic Bishops?" So I guess that means Mr. Ryan will take the Church when it agrees with him, and ignore the Church when it doesn't. Rep. Larson: Well, I think you're absolutely right, but certainly the Bishops have responded and said yes, this is what all the Bishops feel. And they do speak for the Catholic Church. And let's be clear: I certainly have disagreed with the Bishops on more than one occasion, but not without profound respect for their adherence to canon law, and in this instance, their adherence to the very least amongst us and making sure that they're doing the right thing on behalf of all those we're sworn to serve, and they are as well. Martin Bashir: On that specific point, the Bishops' letter says the federal hunger program that's being threatened currently helps millions of households, 76 percent of which include a child, a senior, or a disabled person. Now, these are people who can't just be told to go and get a job; these are people who need assistance, aren't they? Rep. Larson: You're exactly right, Martin. And that's what makes the Bishops' message so compelling and we hope that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle hear this. And we think that this is the kind of message that will resonate not only in the halls of Congress, but from the pulpits in our churches all across this nation. It's not just a matter of Catholicism; I think this is a matter of just humanity in terms of our approach to what we do for our fellow citizens in the very difficult time and therefore I underscore how much the Catholic Bishops should be credited for their statement. Martin Bashir: Congressman John Larson of Connecticut. Thank you, sir, for joining us. Rep. Larson: You're welcome, Martin. # # #
04.18.2012	(Hartford, CT) – Six members of Connecticut’s Congressional Delegation today called on the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) to review and modify a new rule regarding the Academic Progress Rate (APR). In a letter to NCAA President Mark Emmert, delegation members called on the NCAA to review and modify new APR rules by removing the retroactive application of sanctions, which currently have unfair and negative ramifications for academic institutions and their students. “The uncompromised commitment to the academic success of student-athletes remains the paramount responsibility for any academic institution engaged in intercollegiate athletics,” the letter states. “With this obligation in mind, we support necessary and reasonable measures that condition participation in intercollegiate post-season events on a requisite level of academic progress or achievement by student-athletes. However, and no less critical, the process for developing, adopting and implementing regulatory type measures that will be applicable to all academic institutions must be grounded in fundamental fairness.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear President Emmert: We write to express our concern with the implementation of the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s new structure for the Academic Progress Rate (APR). As currently implemented, we believe this structure will have unfair negative ramifications for our academic institutions and their students. As you are aware, last October the NCAA Board of Directors adopted new standards (four year average of 900 or two year average of 930) that institutions must meet in order to qualify and participate in NCAA post-season championship events. These standards were made effective immediately and were to be applied to student-athlete academic performance that had already occurred. We appreciate and support the NCAA’s pursuit of new standards as a means to improve academic achievement. We are dismayed, however, that the NCAA based eligibility for the 2013 NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament on data from the already completed academic years of 2009-10 and 2010-11. As a result, Student-athletes and their institutions were given no phase-in period, no opportunity to adjust to the new standards, and no chance to avoid the penalty. We are deeply concerned that with this action the NCAA is ignoring the reality that more current, data are now available to determine an institution’s most current APR for purposes of determining eligibility for the 2013 Tournament. Using the most current, available data would remedy the existing unfairness. While we understand and support the goals of ensuring quality educational opportunities for student-athletes and the need for strong sanctions for failure to meet those goals, we have misgivings about the retroactive implementation of the penalty. In particular, the NCAA appears to have imposed an overly harsh and unfair penalty by imposing APR sanctions retroactively for conduct and circumstances that had already occurred. By including previous years in a rolling four year average, it should have been clear at the time of adopting the new standard that some universities would be unable to avoid the new penalties – even if the university had achieved a stellar score in the most current year. Due to this rule’s retroactive application, student-athletes, who are not in any manner culpable for the APR performance that is the basis of these new penalties, will be punished. The uncompromised commitment to the academic success of student-athletes remains the paramount responsibility for any academic institution engaged in intercollegiate athletics. With this obligation in mind, we support necessary and reasonable measures that condition participation in intercollegiate post-season events on a requisite level of academic progress or achievement by student-athletes. However, and no less critical, the process for developing, adopting and implementing regulatory type measures that will be applicable to all academic institutions must be grounded in fundamental fairness. Only then will the regulatory structure appropriately address the institutional responsibility for academic success without penalizing innocent individual student-athletes. With the enactment of the new APR penalty structure, however, we believe the NCAA has failed to meet this important standard. The NCAA has the means to address this matter at its upcoming meeting of Committee on Academic Progress on April 23. We therefore call on the NCAA to review and modify the APR rule this session to remove its retroactive application. Such an approach would be a sensible and fair way to resolve this matter while ensuring tough standards and penalties to ensure future compliance. Thank you for your consideration of our concerns. Sincerely, Senator Joseph Lieberman Senator Richard Blumenthal Congressman John Larson Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro Congressman Joseph D. Courtney Congressman Chris Murphy ###
04.18.2012	New $5 & $1 Coins Intended to Help Maintain Twain Legacy, Benefit Local Museum and House WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the passage of the Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act by the House of Representatives this evening. Larson, who originally introduced the bill during the 111th Congress and serves as the lead Democratic sponsor of the bill during the current session, praised the approval of the new coins for ensuring that Twain’s legacy will be honored for years to come. The surcharges associated with the Twain coins will benefit four nonprofit organizations that preserve the work and legacy of Mark Twain, including the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford. “Mark Twain is one of our nation’s greatest scribes whose work has withstood the test of time and continues to remind Americans of where we have come as a people,” Congressman Larson said. “These coins will help a new generation of Americans learn about Twain’s contributions to Connecticut and our country by providing support for the institutions that work every day to honor his legacy. I am very proud to have introduced this bill with Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-09) and thank him for his efforts to move this bill forward.” If signed into law, the coins would be released into circulation in 2016. The bill will now go to the United States Senate for consideration. ###
04.18.2012	Remarks on the GOP budget on floor of the House of Representatives WASHINGTON – Last night Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke out against the plan by House Republicans to cut $34 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (otherwise known as food stamps) as part of their recently-passed budget that makes devastating cuts to social services while ending Medicare as we know it. Below is a video and transcript of the full remarks of the Congressman’s Speech. (To watch the video, click here.) Rep. Larson: I thank the gentlelady from Connecticut and the dean of our delegation -- the deaness, I guess I should say -- for her tireless work and advocacy on the part of not only the citizens of the 3rd Congressional District in Connecticut, but across this great nation and I daresay this globe. I never cease to be amazed by the eloquence of our Members. So many of them coming forward and speaking their minds and speaking from their heart about the people that we're sworn to serve and represent. This week in Congress we face again legislation, rather ironically, where we're deeming--deeming--a budget passed. Almost as though we would deem that the hungry be fed. Franklin Roosevelt, in another time, recognized the great sacrifice that a great nation had to endure and President Obama this past January called upon the shared sacrifice that is required amongst a nation. A nation that needs to pull together in a very difficult, recessionary time. And in this time, it's a time that you have to make choices. And those choices have to be based on your values. And have to be based, as the President said, on sacrifice. Roosevelt called for the warm courage of national security that comes from a shared sacrifice. 46 million people receive assistance, primarily women and children, who get fed and nourished. We're going to have a debate on a budget that strikes at the core of this at a time when we would give tax breaks of $47 billion dollars while we're taking away from the neediest amongst us. Roosevelt said the problem with our colleagues on the other side is they can become frozen in the ice of their indifference towards their fellow citizens. Everyday Americans searching and struggling in this recessionary period. And what do we get in return? We get Romneycare? We get tax breaks for Bain Capital? We get tax breaks that are coming to the nation's wealthiest one percent at a time where we ask the middle class who is struggling to pay for it? We're out here today talking about a very important program that provides nutrition to the least amongst us, and we're calling for cuts that are not only going to take from them, but are going to take from students that are trying to be able to pay off their educational loans? This has got to stop. We're a better country than this. I commend the gentlelady from Connecticut for bringing this to our attention and focusing on the needs of a great nation, that in a time of budgetary concerns has to choose the appropriate values for the country, who has to make the appropriate choices we all agree in the need to sacrifice. But it has to be shared, and shouldn't be balanced on the backs of the middle class and the poorest amongst us. I thank the gentlelady from Connecticut for her leadership. ###
04.17.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement today in recognition of Equal Pay Day. “If our country is to emerge from the Great Recession stronger than how we entered it, we need an economy that rewards hard work fairly regardless of gender. With middle class families still reeling from the recession, it is unacceptable that so many of our mothers, daughters and sisters are paid less than their male counterparts. While over the years progress has been made, whether it was with the Pay Equity Laws passed by the Connecticut General Assembly while I served as Senate President or in recent years with the passage of the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, for women in Connecticut there is still a large gap between what they make and what their male counterparts make. Obviously, there is still much more work to be done to ensure a fair workplace for everyone.” ###
04.17.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded President Obama’s call for increased oversight to protect American consumers from illegal speculation and market manipulation that leads to higher prices at the pump: “President Obama is exactly right. We can’t afford to allow some speculators to reap millions, while millions of American families get the short end of the stick. And that’s exactly what’s happening today. “In a recent hearing called by House Democrats, two industry experts – a former head of the CFTC and the head of the Connecticut Petroleum Marketers Association – made it clear that in just the last 90 days, Wall Street speculation – gambling with a fancy name – has cost American families an extra $10 billion at the pump every month. For the average family driving to work and back, to school and back, every day, that amounts to close to $100 a month that they would otherwise have in their pocket. “As everyone has said, there is no silver bullet to ensure that we never feel any pain from gas prices. But Congress can act, now, to drive speculation out of the market and bring down prices at the pump. The real question is why haven’t we?” # # #
04.17.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-31) held a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting today to warn of the dangers presented by the Republican majority’s tax and budget plans. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Well thank you for joining us. We just concluded a Caucus on our return from our districts. We're proud to announce that more than 1,000 forums, Congress on the Corners were conducted throughout our districts as we continue to make sure that we fight for Medicare, that we continue to educate the public with the assault that's taking place on women all across this great nation of ours, continue to push for the President's jobs bill, which has still not been brought to the Floor by the Republican-controlled House. But also wanted to make sure that we took time to congratulate the presumptive Republican nominee, Mitt Romney, and also congratulate the Republicans for coming together around RomneyCare. Now RomneyCare, in this world here that we operate in Washington, D.C., has become quite a phenomenon. I want to commend the Republicans for finally coming together around something. Because we've been trying to get them to come together around a jobs bill because we recognize that job creation equals deficit reduction. But instead, this week, we see that they are “deeming” a lot of things. Now, they would if they could, deem that Romney be President of the United States, but there's an election, of course, that has to take place in order for that to happen. But this week they're deeming the Ryan budget passed, not only in the House but in the Senate as well. This deeming of things, I think, is part of, you know, the embracing of the concept of RomneyCare. Romneycare, you might ask, well what's that? RomneyCare is where the middle class pays for the tax breaks that are needed by the very rich amongst us. This has been a unifying element amongst the Republicans here in Congress and we're witnessing it here this week. This embrace of RomneyCare will allow Bain Capital to make sure it gets yet more tax breaks. It does, on the other hand, put a little onus on, well, Medicare and Medicaid. But as we've heard, under RomneyCare, people have just got to tighten their belts and understand that those who have wealth and those who have accumulated know better than you. For you poor students that are out there, and witnessing as several of our Members experienced over the break, that your rates are going to double in 74 days. Not to worry. In RomneyCare, if we just take care of those people on Wall Street, we'll be all set. And for you that have been worrying about gas prices, my God, don't you understand that under RomneyCare, we care for those oil companies? We care for those speculators to make sure that they're going to have the wherewithal to keep this economy going. Because God knows you can't make enough money here in these difficult times. And after all, shouldn't the middle class continue to bear these costs? RomneyCare has brought the Republicans together. Thank God, though, that there is still sanity in Congress and Democrats will continue to stand up and fight for fairness and make sure that we defend Medicare and not turn it into a voucher plan, get the President's jobs bill passed, a mere consideration that the Republicans should bring to the Floor and also allow the opportunity for us to make sure that students in the next 74 days don't see their rates double. Students are now paying more than credit card debt. This is wrong. It's wrong for their parents, it's wrong for the students too. Bring up RomneyCare this week – and there's no other way to explain this charade of messaging that goes on here in Washington than to treat it the way it should be. And then get to the heart of the matter and make sure that we're helping out those we're sworn to serve, the American people and especially the hard-working people of the middle class. With that, our Vice-Chair, Xavier Becerra. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, let's see if I can try to follow that and simply say 469. That is the number of days now that the Republicans have ruled here in the House of Representatives. And 469 also happens to be the number of days that we have been in Congress since Republicans took control without a jobs agenda. And, once again, Americans pay the price. We came back after the Easter Recess after working in our districts and talking to our constituents, who essentially were telling us throughout America that they want to see tax fairness, as we try to get this economy moving again. And yesterday, members of Congress had a chance to prove that they were listening to their constituents. And by a majority of 51 votes in the Senate, Senators voted for the “Buffett Rule,” which simply says that no millionaire in America should pay lower tax rates than his secretary or anyone in the middle class. And that got a majority vote in the Senate, but, once again, as we have seen time and time again under this Republican rule: a majority doesn’t win the U.S. Senate. And, so 51 votes did not send a bill to the President’s desk. It died, because the Republican filibuster made it essential to have 60 votes. And, so, once again, the Republicans have killed another piece of legislation that the American public, by some 70%, says they would like to see move forward. At the same time, this week in the Republican controlled House we will see legislation before us, right at the time that Americans are submitting their taxes, that essentially gives the wealthy a back door tax break once again—this time cloaked behind the skirt of small businesses in America. $46 billion deficit spending for the wealthiest in America. Not paid for. $46 billion in one year. Not over ten years, which is usually the way we score the price of this legislation, but in one year, $46 billion. If you were to extend it over the ten years that we usually count for scoring of legislation and it’s cost, it would be half-a-trillion dollars in tax breaks mostly, once again, going to the rich and famous. Who are these so called small businesses that Republicans would be helping in the bill that will be on the Floor this week? Paris Hilton from Beverly Hills with five to ten employees would get a tremendous tax break. My Los Angeles Dodgers, which recently sold for $2 billion, as we all know has a pretty significant payroll. Well, because they’re under five hundred employees they would continue to get these tax breaks that we are told are meant for small businesses. Larry Flynt—Larry Flynt Productions—they do quite a bit of business in the adult entertainment industry, they would get this tax break. Kim Kardashian, another small business woman, would get this tax break. Bain Capital—and Bain Capital, of course, has become famous because of one of its owners and interested parties, Mitt Romney, would get this tax break. Who would not get this tax break for small businesses? Well, if you’re a sole proprietor—that’s a pretty small business—you would not get any of this tax break. If you are a mom and pop, you own a grocery store on the corner, you would not get this tax break. But Kim Kardashian, Mitt Romney, Paris Hilton would get this tax break. That’s the way we begin this April month. 469 days into the Republican controlled House of Representatives in rejecting the common sense “Buffett Rule” and moving forward with a back door tax break for the one-percent. Perhaps it’s not strange that this week we saw a poll that by close to seventy-percent of Americans believe the that tax code and tax system is skewed against them and in favor of the rich. We need to get back to work by putting America back to work. And we need a jobs agenda now. The President has put one forward. If the Republicans in the Congress are not willing to put their own forward then at least let the jobs plan have a vote up or down in the House or the Senate. With that, Mr. Chairman, I yield back. Rep. Larson: We’ve got a second to take a few question. We do have a Ways and Means Committee that’s going on as we speak. Q: President Obama is currently paying around 20% in taxes. He’s called for people with his wealth to be paying at least 30%. Do you believe the President should contribute to the treasury another ten percent of his income taxes? Rep. Larson: I believe that the President is correct and believe that we should follow the Buffet Rule and that requires him following the law. All people currently follow the law, and so should the President. But it’s up to Congress to change the law and then have everybody participate in a way that’s fare and equitable. Under RomneyCare that doesn’t happen. In the Romney world that we’re deeming here over the next couple of days, the rich get rich and the middle class pays for it. And it’s paid for on the backs of student loans, on the backs of Medicare and the general unfairness. And that’s what the President was addressing - the general unfairness. Nobody begrudges anyone the ability to make money or to be successful. That’s great and that’s part of what being a part of this great nation of ours provides and allows for. But it’s the fairness when the country is going through the difficult time that it is. When the fairness of your fellow Americans is at risk. When you’re going to eliminate meals on wheels so that we can make sure that we provide for a second elevator that takes your car to the second floor of your house and get a break for it. That is where fairness comes in. Q: You mention deeming. I assume that you’re talking about the Ryan budget. You guys did this during the healthcare reform bill. What’s the difference? Rep. Larson: We did not do that during healthcare reform. It was talked about but we did not do it. We did not do it and because… in fact we did not do it, but we spent many hours not only in our caucus but in and on the floor that became the most debated bill in the history of the United States Congress. And so but this bill is going to have no debate is going to be deemed. So the Ryan budget is going to be deemed. As I said, if it could, they would deem Mitt Romney president but that’s not going to happen there’s going to be an election. There should be an election out here. We are the vocal minority. We’re making it known that this is not the right process, this is not fairness, this is not what the American people expect. And why are they deeming it? Well, they are deeming it because they know that it can’t stand up to their scrutiny. Rep. Becerra: Can I just add something? I hope you’re asking the Republicans the question, what are they afraid of? If they’re so proud of the Republican budget, why aren’t they willing to have it debated on the Floor? Why must they have it passed through a stealth action which gives no one the opportunity to debate it on the Floor of the House. Which means no one in America gets to debate it. Because when you’re the four hundred and thirty five representatives elected by the three hundred and seven million represented Americans in this country cant debate a bill, something is wrong. And I hope the question being asked of our Republicans colleagues is, if they’re so proud of their budget and if Mitt Romney has adopted their budget, why aren’t they willing to debate it so people can understand what it means? Rep. Larson: Thank you.
04.06.2012	HARTFORD, CT – Declaring that the system for regulating collegiate athletics appears to be broken, U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following joint-statement today: “Athletic achievement provides a unique avenue for youth to pursue the better life that comes from a quality education, and for so many young adults is a pathway out of poverty. In exchange for an athletic scholarship, our collegiate athletes risk their health and often sacrifice their privacy in pursuit of an education. Unfortunately, too many of these students are finding that the Division I athletic scholarship brings with it more than they’ve bargained for. To fulfill its mission of enforcing academic and competitive standards, the NCAA has developed a system of enforcement that often appears arbitrary and unfair. “The NCAA’s ruling against the University of Connecticut yesterday and other recent examples of arbitrary rulings against students and universities across the country has convinced us that the current system for regulating collegiate athletics is broken. “We believe these issues demand Congressional attention because the questions regarding fairness for student-athletes have gone on too long – and the reforms that have been made are not yet sufficient. Over the coming days we will be working together and with our colleagues to shine a light on the way the NCAA enforces its rules and review all possible courses of action to compel reform with the goal of ensuring the welfare of student athletes. # # #
04.05.2012	Guilford: ‘Oil Speculators have overtaken energy markets’ Click here to watch a video of this hearing in its entirety WASHINGTON – Yesterday afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced Gene Guilford, President of the Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association, during a hearing of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee on excessive and abusive oil speculation. Guilford, who served in Former President Ronald Reagan’s Department of Energy, was invited to the hearing by Congressman Larson and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). During the hearing Guilford testified on the impact that excessive and abusive oil speculation is having on high gas prices and the need for Republicans in Congress to allow the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to do its job and rein in Wall Street speculators. Below is an excerpt from Mr. Guilford’s remarks. To watch his remarks in their entirety, please click here. For a video of Congressman Larson’s introduction of Mr. Guilford, please click here. “Where we are today with respect to connecting the dots between Wall Street and the gas pump is, for us, very clear and I’d like to illustrate that for you in the material that I’ve handed out to you. “The Wall Street/NYIMEX gasoline contract has increased 86 cents-per-gallon in the last 90 days. Since mid-December, 86 cents more per gallon means our state of Connecticut pays $3.6 million more per day, every day more for gasoline. That is $25 million more per week that the citizens of Connecticut pay more for Gasoline then they did in the middle of December. To put that in context with the charts we provided for you, and now we’re up to 92 cents by virtue of the fact we had a 6.2 cent increase just the other night after I had prepared these charts for you today, at 11 billion gallons a month that Americans consume in gasoline, Americans today are paying $10 billion more for gasoline than they were paying in mid-December. “So in the context of Professor Greenberger’s statements with regard to how much we should be arguing funding an agency of the federal government for the purpose of overseeing these markets, if it’s costing the American people this much money just within the scope of 90 days, it’s extraordinary. “Now what could possibly have happened in the last 90 days to cause this problem? Did Hurricanes come through the Gulf of Mexico? Was there a massive shutdown of refineries around the world? Did Israel attack Iran? In the absence of anything that anyone can point to, a tax on the American public of $10 billion per month has been enacted as the result of what has gone on in Wall Street just since the middle of December. With due respect to anyone who chooses to blame this on India and China, we didn’t just discover India and China the week before Christmas. “That is what has happened just since the middle of December. Our contention is that financial industry speculators have overtaken over the commodity markets. Ten years ago actual producers and users of energy and agricultural commodities made up 70-80 percent of the markets with only 20-30 percent of the markets made up of speculators. Now this has flipped and 70-80 percent of the markets are made up of speculators and only 20-30 percent of the markets are made up of actual producers and consumers of commodities.” ###
04.03.2012	(Hartford, CT) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today applauded an $8.6 million Department of Health and Human Services grant to provide home visits that support early childhood development to Connecticut families that elect to receive such services. The grant was awarded to the Connecticut Department of Public Health through the federal Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program created by the Affordable Care Act. “This grant will help foster a safer, healthier environment for children and growing families in Connecticut,” said the delegation in a statement. “Through in-home visits from counselors, nurses, and other professionals, parents will have access to the training and early education resources that strengthen families and give children the support they need to excel.” The $8,677,222 in funding announced today will allow Connecticut to expand its home visiting program and provide resources for early learning and development, prevention and identification of child maltreatment, improvement of maternal and child health outcomes, and family engagement. ###
03.29.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the House Republican Budget that would end the Medicare guarantee and slash over four million jobs while rewarding those making over $1 million a year with over $300,000 in additional tax breaks: “As Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said, in these troubled times, ‘we need to prevail upon this country to come together and find the warm courage of national unity that comes from shared sacrifice.’ “That’s why House Democrats have proposed a budget that is fair and balanced and calls for shared sacrifice from all Americans – not just the least among us. And Americans are willing to sacrifice, knowing that their government will stand behind them and be there to protect them from the vicissitudes that can come with the calamities of life. “No American should be asked to sacrifice the guarantee of Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and healthcare at the altar of greed and special interest subsidies. Yet that is what the Republican budget asks, and why Democrats stand united in opposition." Watch Congressman Larson's Floor Statement on the Budget Resolution: # # #
03.28.2012	WASHINGTON – This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined with colleagues in the House of Representatives to introduce the 2012 Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) reauthorization bill. Larson, who is a co-sponsor of the 2012 legislation and has been a staunch supporter of continued reauthorization and sustained funding since he entered Congress in 1999, called on the House to act immediately to pass this important legislation. “In Connecticut we are very lucky to have such terrific leadership at the state level that is committed to combating domestic violence,” Congressman Larson said. “However, for millions across the country in the absence of local leadership VAWA is absolutely critical in providing funding and resources needed to help the current victims and prevent future instances of domestic violence. This is not a Democratic issue or a Republican one, but an effort that all lawmakers must get behind.” Enacted in 1994 to improve the way our country responds to domestic violence and sexual assault, VAWA established new federal crimes of interstate domestic violence and stalking, doubled penalties for repeat sex offenders, and sparked the passage of laws at the state level to protect victims. The bill also funds grant programs to help the victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence. Since the passage of the Violence Against Women Act in 1994, rates of domestic violence have decreased by over 50 percent. Last September Congressman Larson joined with then-interim Executive Director of the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence (CCADV), Karen Jarmoc, to host a roundtable discussion on preventing domestic violence in Connecticut. Additionally, last year Congressman Larson was honored as a member of the “First 100,” an award presented by the CCADV to the first 100 men who showed a commitment to ending domestic violence in Connecticut.
03.28.2012	Legislation Intended to Prevent Tax Increases on the Beneficiaries of the Mortgage Settlement Agreement WASHINGTON – Representatives John B. Larson (CT-01) Jim McDermott (WA-07), and Shelley Berkley (NV-01) introduced the “Homeowners Tax Fairness Act” today to protect homeowners and servicemembers who were wrongly foreclosed on and entitled to relief under the historic national mortgage settlement from additional tax burdens. The $25 billion settlement, which represents the largest financial recovery obtained by the states’ attorneys general since the 1998 Master Tobacco Settlement, was reached with Bank of America, J.P. Morgan Chase, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally Financial. It will allow hundreds of thousands of distressed homeowners to stay in their homes through enhanced loan modifications and principal reduction, and it will also provide payments to victims of unfair foreclosure practices. Unfortunately, under current law, those settlement payments would subject the homeowners and servicemembers who receive them to additional tax burdens. For instance, homeowners receiving relief in the form of mortgage debt forgiveness and direct cash payments for wrongful foreclosure could be subject to federal income tax. Moreover, additional taxes would be owed on the payments made to servicemembers who were wrongfully foreclosed on while deployed overseas. To prevent that injustice, the Homeowners Tax Fairness Act would extend the exclusion for debt forgiveness on a primary residence throughout the term of the settlement agreement, and exclude the relief payments from income for homeowners and servicemembers. “The mortgage settlement was intended to provide relief to Americans who were foreclosed on unlawfully and help people stay in their homes. To force them to turn around and pay Uncle Sam is simply adding insult to their injury,” added Congressman John Larson. "This legislation will make sure that doesn't happen. It's simply the right thing to do.” “I applaud the work of the State Attorneys General in brokering this settlement to provide needed relief to America’s homeowners and service members. This level of consensus is rare, and speaks volumes to how important this relief is,” said Congressman Jim McDermott. “Now it’s our turn to ensure that every bit of negotiated relief goes to the people who need it the most. Collecting federal income tax on relief intended for struggling homeowners is not only bad policy, but is simply wrong.” “We need to protect homeowners and servicemembers who have already been the victims of fraud or unfair foreclosure practices from also being hit with a new tax bill resulting from this mortgage settlement. This legislation will prevent homeowners in Nevada and nationwide who receive refinancing help, principal reductions or direct payments under this settlement from having to literally pay for the fraud and deception committed by banks and members of the mortgage industry,” said Congresswoman Shelley Berkley. “Acting now will help protect an estimated 1.7 million homeowners across the U.S. – including 68,000 in Nevada – who are eligible to take part in this settlement and who deserve the protections this bill will offer.”The Larson-McDermott-Berkley bill also considers the particularly egregious actions taken by the five largest banks in violation of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. Over the past three years, the five largest servicers violated the law and wrongfully foreclosed or overcharged mortgage interest on servicemembers, many of whom were deployed overseas in combat zones. Accordingly, the Homeowners Tax Fairness Act not only excludes this relief from income to servicemembers, but denies these banks the ability to deduct these payments from their federal income taxes. Reps. Larson, McDermott and Berkley – each of whom is a member of the Ways and Means Committee, the U.S. House of Representatives’ tax-writing panel – introduced the bill with the support of every Democratic member of the Ways and Means Committee.Specifically, this legislation will: Extend the exclusion from income for debt forgiven on a primary residence, originally enacted in 2007 for the three year period anticipated by the settlement agreement; Extend the deduction for mortgage insurance for three years; Exclude from income the direct cash payments for wrongful foreclosure; Exclude from income the payments to servicemembers wrongfully foreclosed on or overcharged mortgage interest in violation of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act; and, Deny the deduction to banks for relief payments made in violation of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. ###
03.27.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) held a press avail before the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the effects of the Republican budget and how Democrats remain committed to defending Medicare, and healthcare reform. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning and thank you for our early bird delivery this morning, but we have a Caucus this morning on the budget. We will receive presentations from Chris Van Hollen, our Budget Chair, who's done an extraordinary job, and the Congressional Black Caucus and the Congressional Progressive Caucus as well. The three share something in common and runs significantly throughout thematically what we know is the most critical thing, and that's protecting the security of all Americans, especially as it relates to their Medicare. All three proposals seek to keep the Medicare that seniors have come to know, love and appreciate. I recently held Congress on the Corner in my district and one after the other, people came up to me and said, "Please fight to keep Social Security the way it is. Please do not let the Ryan budget pass. Keep Medicare as it is so that I can enjoy those benefits." As we speak, the Supreme Court enters its second day of hearings on the Affordable Healthcare Act, an act that actually strengthened and lengthened Medicare for all of our constituents and provides benefits to people including screenings and pre-existing conditions and leveling the playing field for women and also making sure that children are able to stay on your policy until age 26. These benefits are under siege by Republican presidential candidates, who showed up yesterday at the Supreme Court – some of the leading thinking of the 8th century when they talk about turning back the clock to the way things were and the way they would like to turn back the clock on the healthcare initiatives that are so vitally important to the American people. Democrats stand in strong opposition to that. We stand for the Medicare programs. These programs get demonized as they were in the Affordable Healthcare Act [debate]. Let me just say a word here about what they call "death panels". I have a mother who will be 87 next week. She's been in a hospital for the last two and a half years. Two and a half years ago they said she probably didn't have much time to live. She went into hospice. We were blessed and fortunate to have the family around her and talk about her end-of-life and how she wanted it to unfold. I remember her saying, "I don't want to be a burden on anyone." And we all said, "Mom, you're not a burden for us." And she said, "But I want to be in my home and I want to go peacefully. Just make me comfortable." S he had three congestive heart failures. She did not want to be intubated. She didn't want to be kept artificially alive in a vegetative state. She wanted to go with dignity. Her health got better. So much so she was too healthy to be in hospice, but needed direct care and finds herself in a nursing home with advancing dementia. But always with the security of knowing that she's going to go out, God willing, on her own terms. Every American ought to be able to have the opportunity to sit down with their doctor and with their family and have this kind of discussion. When we look at costs associated with Medicare, everyone knows that it's the end-of-life decisions that cause for that spike in costs. This is not a state secret, this is a common fact. And to demonize a program that would sit down and bring people together to allow them to make reasonable decisions demonstrates the difference in approaches between the two parties. I can't tell you and everybody knows the importance of securing the Medicare program. But before we go balancing it on the backs of those recipients, shouldn't we minimally take a look at the subsidies that we provide oil companies first? Shouldn't we take a look at the amount of money that millionaires will still be receiving? And more importantly, shouldn't we look, as Reuters did, at the system itself and look at the unbelievable cost that has occurred amongst the providers of medical devices, of pharma, of insurance, of hospitals, doctors, and the trial bar, before we decide to shift the costs onto the backs of the beneficiaries like my mother and others who receive them? That's why Democrats are so adamantly behind preserving Medicare as we know it, strengthening the program, expanding that program under the Affordable Healthcare Act, and making sure that that program is both solvent well into the future and providing the necessary benefits that our people richly deserve. We're going to hear from our Caucus this morning on our budget proposals and, as I said, the overall commitment by this Democratic Caucus is to make sure that we don't roll back Medicare, that we don't voucher Medicare, that we keep it as the program it was designed to be, understanding that things that need to be done within the system to change it can start with a realistic look at a GDP of more than 17 percent in healthcare costs that could be rolled back dramatically by making sure, as President Obama called for, the various groups to make sure that they streamline and get the costs down in their delivery system. I am pleased that the Administration is making progress and much more needs to be done in the area of fraud, but this is all doable without balancing on the backs of our seniors. Thank you very much. We have time for a couple questions. Q: What would Democrats do if the Supreme Court does, in fact, find the individual mandate to be unconstitutional? What would be the game plan there? Considering you possibly have to deal with a law that is unconstitutional. Rep. Larson: Redouble the efforts and take to the streets, understanding that America is with us; understanding what this would mean in terms of women’s health alone. What it means in terms of disparity that this Act corrects; disparity between what a women would pay for a health care policy. What it means to people with preexisting conditions. At those town halls I was talking about, a mother came up to me and said, “I have a nineteen-year-old son. If he’s not allowed—who needs a transplant—if he’s not allowed to stay on my policy you’re giving him a death sentence. There’s no way that we can afford this.” Person after person, who has been impacted by the Affordable Health Care Act, comes to these hearings and expresses their concern. This is a noble Act that has been passed. It serves the American people extraordinarily well. I cannot understand the indifference by our colleagues on the other side who would callously end that program as the first act as President of the United States or all the attempts that have been made to roll back the program this Congress, including the Ryan budget. Rolling back preexisting conditions and screenings and making sure that women are on a level playing field as men is something that I think the American people would be outraged about. There’s a lot of work that needs to be done on the Affordable Health Care Act, but most of it stems around making sure that we’re getting the pricing right, making sure that when you are at seventeen percent of gross domestic product for the cost of health care could it not be that we need to take a look at the rising cost of medical equipment, of pharma, of insurance, of hospitals, doctors and the trial bar? Shouldn’t we be taking a look there first? And what about the fraud and abuse and inefficiencies within the system? Reuters said we could save more than $700 billion annually. The whole program is $954 billion over ten years. We have the ability to do this. What has been lacking in the Congress is the will. We should be pulling together as a country to make sure that people get to live out their final days in dignity, assured that their country is going to be standing behind them, so they don’t go bankrupt over health care issues and so they have an opportunity to get the health care that they need. You want to turn back the clock and go back to all of the hidden costs that occur in the emergency room and further overload an already overloaded system with more Americans going to get their daily health care there because there’s no other place? Q: Following up on that: what can you do legally? There are a lot of popular benefits in the bill, we know that, but the Supreme court shoots it down, the Supreme Court shoots it down… Rep. Larson: The Supreme Court is the supreme law of the land. If they shoot it down, then I assure you efforts will be there to rewrite and reconstruct in a manner that provides the opportunity for those citizens. I believe that the Supreme Court is going to uphold the decision. And I’m not a attorney, I’m certainly not Oliver Wendell Holmes or even Justice Learned Hand, but I do believe — we do believe – in the Constitution and constructed this bill along those lines and I believe that it will be upheld. If they strike down a portion of the bill or in striking down a portion of the bill, if it was to cripple the bill, there will be immediate efforts to resurrect it. The day we that passed this bill in our Caucus I asked John Lewis to say a few words to the Caucus. You may recall the day before the President came and addressed our Caucus and was, in fact, very frank with many members in the Caucus and said, “some of you who vote for this bill are not coming back, but this is the right thing to do for America.” John Lewis, as you may recall, and Andre Carson and Emanuel Cleaver, on the way over here encountered an unseemly experience with racial slurs and people spitting, etc. Not many people knew about it, but then we all heard about it on the news that night and there was quite a bit tension in our Caucus. From the Cannon Office Building you could hear outside the echo of “kill the bill.” And I asked John Lewis if he could get up, because people were a little upset about how he had been treated and typical of John Lewis he said, “Pay no attention to what went on yesterday. We have to learn, as we did in the Civil Rights Movement, too look past this and keep our eyes on the prize.” And he said, “so I ask you to stay calm and stay together.” And he was going to walk away from the mic and then he stepped back and said, “forty five years ago, I walked across the Edmund Pettus bridge arm in arm with fellow citizens who believed strongly in Civil Rights. We faced far more difficult crowds than we are facing out here today. Let’s lock arms and go across the street and pass this bill.” And we did. Thank you. # # #
03.26.2012	WASHINGTON – This afternoon U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal, Joe Lieberman and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the Hartford Housing Authority will receive a $397,939 grant from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to benefit homeless veterans throughout the greater-Hartford area. “Far too many veterans in Connecticut and throughout the country are struggling to secure affordable housing and access critical services,” Senator Lieberman said. “These substantial awards will allow Connecticut housing agencies to provide more Connecticut veterans, who have sacrificed so much for us, with the help they need to get back on their feet.” “Ensuring access to affordable housing is critical to honoring and keeping faith with our veterans once they return home,” Senator Blumenthal said. “These funds are effective in combating veterans’ homelessness and enabling Connecticut’s veterans to live with the safety and dignity they deserve.” “For too many American service members, adjusting to life back home after serving in a warzone is extremely difficult and unfortunately many men and women end up homeless,” Congressman Larson said. “I want to commend the Obama Administration, especially Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki, for their commitment to eliminating homelessness among our veterans. This funding will go a long way to helping the Hartford Housing Authority carry out this critical task.” The grant, awarded under HUD’s Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (VASH) program, was one of five overall awarded to the state. Other cities receiving grants included New Haven, Waterbury and West Haven as well as the state Department of Social Services. Last April Congressman Larson and local officials hosted Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Tammy Duckworth in the district for a public forum on eliminating homelessness among veterans. ###
03.23.2012	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement marking the two-year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act. “Whether it’s the millions of young people that are able to obtain coverage through their parents plans until the age of 26 – like the 19-year-old boy in my District with a rare liver disease who is awaiting a transplant and would otherwise not have coverage – the small business owners who are receiving tax credits for providing coverage to their employees or the seniors who are saving money on their prescription drugs, the Affordable Care Act is working to expand access to healthcare for all Americans. As we head towards 2014, Americans will no longer have to worry about being denied coverage or charged more because they have a pre-existing condition and millions will have access to a marketplace where they can access affordable, quality health care coverage. “I want to thank President Obama and my fellow members of Congress who worked hard to make the century-long vision of healthcare reform a reality.” For a full breakdown of how the Affordable Care Act is benefiting the First Congressional District, please click here. ###
03.22.2012	Cosponsors Senate-Passed MAP-21 Bill That Would Create or save over 23,000 CT Jobs WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) continued his call for House Republican leadership to pass a bipartisan transportation bill that will create construction jobs in Connecticut and throughout the country. Larson joined Congressman Tim Bishop (NY-01) to introduce the Senate-passed MAP-21 transportation bill, which would provide a two-year extension of transportation funding and create or save 1.8 million American jobs, including over 23,000 in Connecticut. “At a time when roughly 40 percent of Connecticut’s construction workers are unemployed, it’s critical for the House to act immediately on this bill,” Congressman Larson said. “Transportation funding has always been a bipartisan issue because it’s so important for the nation, yet, as we’ve seen so many times over the last year, Tea Party Republicans have decided to use this critical legislation to try to drive their ideological agenda. I am calling on Speaker Boehner to set partisan politics aside and put the Senate-passed bill up for a vote so that we can continue to move our country forward.” This year, House Republicans proposed a transportation bill that would drastically cut federal funding, causing Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood to call it, “The worst transportation bill I’ve seen in 30 years.” By contrast, the MAP-21 bill passed through the United States Senate by a 74-22 vote earlier this month. With the current transportation bill extension scheduled to expire at the end of this month, Congress only has four more legislative days to settle this issue. ###
03.22.2012	WASHINGTON -- Today Congressman Sam Johnson (R-TX) and Congressman John Larson (D-CT) introduced legislation that would prohibit the IRS from taxing compensation awarded to people who have been wrongfully convicted of a crime and subsequently exonerated. “As a former Prisoner of War in Vietnam for nearly 7 years, I know what it is like to have years of your life robbed,” said Johnson, who spent nearly half of his captivity in solitary confinement. “While we can’t return the years lost as a result of wrongful imprisonment, we can make sure that those individuals don’t suffer the additional injustice of being persecuted by the IRS for taxes they shouldn’t have to pay.” Dallas County, which includes portions of Johnson’s district, is a leader in exonerations. Since the first DNA exoneration in 1989, the wrongfully convicted have served more than 3,809 years in prisons across 35 states before being exonerated. The nearly 300 DNA exonerees served an average of 13.5 years in prison, ranging from less than one to 35 years. Johnson and Larson believe this bill represents a bipartisan effort in Washington to ensure that the federal government does its part for those who have been wronged by the justice system. “In Connecticut, with the exoneration of James Tillman, we’ve seen firsthand that wrongful convictions are an unfortunate reality,” Congressman Larson added. “Though we can never give the wrongfully convicted the time back that they’ve had taken from them, they certainly shouldn’t have to pay Uncle Sam a share of any compensation they’re awarded. This bill will make sure they don’t have to suffer that insult on top of their injury.” Specifically, the Wrongful Convictions Tax Relief Act proposes to allow exonerees to keep their awards free of tax. Compensation awards are meant to provide exonerated prisoners with much-needed economic support. Many exonerated individuals experience severe hardship acclimating to society, finding jobs and housing and reconnecting with family. With no money, housing, transportation, health services or insurance, the punishment lingers long after the exoneration. # # #
03.20.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01), Xavier Becerra (CA-31) and Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-12), held a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Congress to act on jobs as well as the GOP Budget and the benefits of healthcare reform. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning. Is everybody ready? Well thank you for joining us this morning and we're glad that we've been able to extend St. Patrick's Day and celebrate with the Taoiseach today at lunch and later in the White House. Also this is a day where the Republicans have rolled out their budget and it's déjà vu all over again. Medicare is presented in a way that no one recognizes it from the original program and once again, as one of my constituents so aptly said, we feel like we're in the dark abyss of uncertainty. We assure them that Democrats will be here fighting on behalf of full funding of Medicare and keeping the program so it's the beneficiary who remains whole, and we focus where we need to on eliminating the waste from medical devices, from big pharma, from insurance, from docs, from hospitals, from the trial bar, and not on the backs of beneficiaries. Also, we note that Republicans are back, it's not clear whether we're going to take up a transportation bill and the country still needs to be put back to work and we've yet to see the President's jobs bill brought to the Floor of the House of Representatives. I'm proud to be joined today by our Vice-Chair, Xavier Becerra, and also Jackie Speier, who did extensive work in her district that we want you to hear about. And with that, I'll introduce the Vice-Chair. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. And 440 days: that's how long Republicans have been in control. And yet, no comprehensive jobs agenda has been presented to the American people by our Republican majority. Not only that, but now we find that in their soon to be unveiled budget, Republicans have put millionaires ahead of Medicare. And so, we're left to wonder. If you're not going to do job creation, then at least take your foot off the brake so that the President and his agenda can move forward, to build on the close to 4 million jobs that have been created over the last two years with the work of the President and those in Congress who are willing to work with him on moving a jobs agenda. But if you're not going to do that, then at least do more than just words and do something with real action to create jobs, or at least to protect Medicare, not to eliminate it. And what we find today is that, as the Chairman just said, that the Republicans are going to rehash last year's budget proposal which ends Medicare. It ends the Medicare guarantee for seniors. It cuts, obviously, benefits to seniors who need healthcare. And it puts a real bottleneck in the whole process of healthcare reform. So we are hoping that we can have some opportunity to find common ground with our Republican colleagues to move the economy forward, to move an agenda for the American people forward with our Republican colleagues. It makes it tough. Especially, when you find that the Chairman of the Budget Committee is spending thousands of taxpayer dollars to do video tapes — campaign style video tapes — to talk about his budget. And lecturing the American people on his budget instead of using the money to get a real budget out and help us create jobs in the private sector. It’s unfortunate that taxpayer money—probably more than is earned by a majority of Americans—has been spent by the Budget Committee Chairman to do a campaign style video tape to talk about his budget. That’ where we are today Democrats are moving forward, we continue to work both here in DC and in our district to try convey to people that there is hope and there are opportunities to build jobs and protect Medicare for our seniors and someone who has been doing quite a bit of that is my colleague and friend from California Jackie Speier. Rep. Speier: Thank you, Xavier. The message really is we are not going to allow the clock to be turned back. In my district this past week, that was a strong message. We’re not going to allow the clock to be turned back on women’s health; we’re not going to allow the clock to be turned back for a time when seniors didn’t have Medicare and we are going to be about building jobs. So I had the eighth Job Hunter’s Bootcamp in my district. We had over 900 attendees and we had 37 employers there. It was also an opportunity for workers who wanted to get back to work to hone their skills. Whether it was brushing up on their interview skills or making their resumes top notch for the Internet and how we move forward. And then I met with 200 young women and men at a state University where had many Sandra Flukes speak about what health care meant to them and what contraceptive and access to contraceptive meant to them. We also had experts in health economy and experts in health care talk about how for every dollar that is spent on contraceptive pills, four dollars are saved in unnecessary costs associated with pregnancy and delivery. It’s all about making sure you can plan a family and students in college certainly recognize the opportunities that avail them when they can finish their college education and then move forward with developing a family plan. So it was a great week for us to connect with our constituents in our district. And it’s all about not turning the clock back. Rep. Larson: Well thank you very much Jackie, and you know, of course, all across the country when we were home on this break, Members heard an awful lot. And the phrase, “turning back the clock,” doesn’t do these Republican presidential candidates justice. These are some of the leading minds of the 8th century that have put forward their plans for the American people. And indeed, we are focused still on jobs and getting this economy back on its feet. The President has made gains and the nation is moving forward. But without a cooperative Congress, with them continuing to throw road blocks up, makes it very difficult to accomplish things. We wish that they would bring forward bipartisan legislation and use the example of the Senate with regard to transportation. But to date, that still remains uncertain. With the country calling out for jobs, calling out to get back to work, Republican Congress continues to say “no” to that idea because they think it hurts President Obama. And they would rather see President Obama hurt than the American people employed. And with that, let me throw it open to questions. Q: Congressman, a year ago when Congressman Ryan came out with his budget proposals, it was pretty much trumped by the prospects of the supercommittee. What’s changed since then? That was supposed to be an effort of bipartisanship, as you just proposed yourself. Rep. Larson: It was supposed to be an effort of bipartisanship and again, what we saw is that, that collapsed in failure. And failure in large part because the other side was not willing to look at the excessive subsidies for oil companies and they would rather see a budget balanced on the back of beneficiaries and those who can least afford it, and to continue to squeeze the middle class as opposed to making sure that we have fairness in a proposal, that we tighten our belts, but we do so by a balance of both revenues and tax cuts. Q: Congressman, what do you think will happen with Congressman Ryan’s plan this year? Rep. Larson: I think Mr. Ryan’s plan, like I said before is déjà vu all over again. It’s the same plan, even Ryan himself… Listen Paul Ryan is a bright, capable guy, it must really bother him that he has to use his budget as a political messaging tool for the Republicans, which he pretty much admitted today in the press. That this is a messaging piece, that he knows it can’t possibly pass because what it does to average, ordinary American citizens and people who rely on Medicare. He understands that, and I think so do the American people. Q: Congressman, many provisions in the President’s health care law are popular – the amendments and so forth, but the law itself is unpopular by about 10-11 points in the polls. Why is that? Rep. Larson: Well, can you think of any other piece of legislation that has been steadily attacked since its inception before it was even on paper? And let me just point out one particularly because it is really just personal death panels for example. You’ve seen all those death panels from around the country right? But for more than a year people were harping on death panels. Let me tell you what a death panel is. My mother has three congestive heart failures, she’s had multiple sclerosis for more than thirty years, she has the onset of dementia, she sat down with our family and her doctor because she just wanted to go on her own terms. She preferably wanted to be at home and she said in her words “I no longer want to be a burden on my children,” which she of course never is. But we were able to sit down with the doctor and her and she was able to say “I don’t want to be intubated. I don’t want to be kept alive artificially. Just let me go naturally.” That’s what’s been called a death panel. This is something that I believe every American, if they choose, wants to do, wants to make sure, I know in my own and for my family that’s what I would like and I am sure all of America does as well. So your point to the point that this whole affordable health care act gets a demonized, yes there are things that can be fixed in it, but look at the enormous benefits that have come from it: children able to stay on the policy until they are 26, preexisting conditions addressed, the disparity between what an insurance company charges for male and female, the enormous benefits that you heard Jackie extol about women’s health and what it means to them to put them on parity. No more screenings where you have to put up a co-pay so that the preventative side is there. The extensive work that’s being done making sure that we are able to link technology and efficiency. The stepping up of making sure we’re getting fraud out of the health care system. All of which haven’t received nearly the attention that demonizing the bill does. And, of course, the more that the American people understand they appreciate this. And, just like Social Security and Medicare before it, now is the Affordable Health Care Act—or what the Republicans derisively call “Obamacare.” You know what: the President likes it when they say that because Obama does care about the people of this country. The other guys still seem to be frozen in this indifference towards what this means to families. I was in New Hampshire this past week and met with at least three or four families who came up to me and told me how they were personally impacted by the Affordable Health Care Act and what it will mean to them. A mother back in my district, in Manchester, said “I have nineteen-year-old son who has inoperable liver disease; who’s waiting for a transplant. If not for the Affordable Health Care Act he’ll go off my policy before we get chance to do it.” These are the real life situations and you’re going to hear people continue to talk about that. This week marks the anniversary of the signing and each day—yesterday, the Vice-Chair and Jan Schakowsky and Doris Matsui led a discussion about the impact of the Affordable Health Care Act on the elderly and this week we will continue to step that up. Thank you very much for joining us today. # # #
03.19.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on news of a shooting at a Jewish school in Toulouse, France that has claimed the lives of a Rabbi and three children. “I want to express my deepest condolences and sympathy to the victims, their families and the people of Toulouse during this terrible hour. This senseless attack is a stark reminder of the evil that exists in this world that we must be diligent in pursuing. “Today as Americans we stand with the people of Toulouse and offer our support to the French government as they look to bring those responsible to justice.” ###
03.16.2012	BERLIN, Conn. – This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) visited AMCO Precision Tool in Berlin to meet with Company President and Vice President Aldo and Rich Zovich to listen to their concerns as a small manufacturers, as well as discuss how the Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative may be able to help. Opened in 1966, AMCO Precision Tool specializes in the manufacturing of precision aerospace and commercial parts. They are currently interested in hiring and expanding their existing facilities, but are searching for candidates who possess the certifications and training that fit their needs. The Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative was launched last November as an effort by Congressman Larson in conjunction with the Connecticut Department of Labor, the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), Capital Workforce Partners and the Connecticut Board of Regents for Higher Education to match unemployed manufacturing professionals with local businesses who are hiring. “Companies like AMCO are the reason why the Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match was launched late last year,” Congressman Larson said. “At a time when aerospace manufacturers are in need of hiring trained manufacturing professionals to gear up for the recently-awarded F-35 and Tanker contracts, it is our hope that the job match will not only connect companies with existing unemployed professionals, but create a pipeline of trained professionals for future hiring. I want to thank Rich and Aldo Zovich for hosting me today and sharing some of the challenges they face.” Since the first job match event in early January, 16 individuals have already been hired by 10 local manufacturers, while dozens of others have been identified as ready to be placed or in need of additional training. Interested job-seekers and businesses can learn more about how to participate in upcoming matches by contacting Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888. ###
03.14.2012	HARTFORD—Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Chris Murphy (CT-05) today announced their support for legislation and called for immediate action to help halt rising gas prices in Connecticut and across the country. Murphy and Larson are calling on the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to quickly implement rules to crack down on excessive oil speculation, a primary culprit behind rising gas prices. They are also backing a proposal that will penalize oil companies who buy up oil leases on millions of acres of federal lands without actually producing oil to increase America’s supply. Under current law, oil companies can lease potential oil reserves on federal land whether or not they produce oil on that land or even have plans to produce oil there. In some cases, oil companies are leasing land but not producing oil on it in order to count more oil reserves on their balance sheets. In other cases, oil companies buy up drilling leases to prevent their competitors from producing oil on those acres. The lawmakers also stressed that today’s high gas prices are not a problem the country can drill itself out of. With U.S. oil production in 2011 reaching its highest level in eight years, coupled with a dramatic decrease in domestic demand, Murphy and Larson called out Wall Street speculators. “Let’s be honest, there is a very limited number of things the government can do to control the international price of oil,” said Murphy. “What we can do is crack down on excessive speculation in our oil markets that adds roughly 56 extra cents to a gallon of gas, and we can make sure that oil companies who lease federal lands actual use that land to increase the supply of American oil.” “At a time when as a nation we are producing more and using less oil, there’s no rational reason why the price of gas should be rising at the rate we have seen,” Larson said. “Abusive Wall Street oil speculation based on world events is causing significant hardships for Americans at the pump and it needs to stop. Republicans in Congress need to allow the laws past as part of the 2010 Wall Street Reform Act to do their job so that we can put the cops on the beat and stop these unfair practices.” The CFTC, if Republican objections are dropped, may immediately adopt new rules included in the Wall Street Reform Act that would allow federal regulators to police derivatives markets, including trades in energy commodities like oil. Without strong enforcement, regulators won’t be able to exercise all their abilities to police oil markets for excessive speculation and price manipulation. Larson and Murphy are also backing legislation to incentivize the use of alternative fuels. The lawmakers support the NAT GAS Act, which would provide a tax credit for the purchase of a natural gas truck; create a new tax credit for equipment manufacturers that produce natural gas vehicles (NGVs) to encourage production and sale in the U.S.; and, provide grants for the development of light- and heavy-duty NGVs and engines to ensure the U.S. stays at the forefront of clean energy development. ###
03.13.2012	HARTFORD – Last night during a public forum on foreign policy in Glastonbury, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) renewed his call for the President to immediately initiate an accelerated, but responsible withdrawal. “With the finding and killing of Osama Bin Laden last May, I believe that America’s role in Afghanistan is finished and that it is time for the Afghani people to take control of their country and for neighboring nations to make a firm commitment to help keep the peace,” Congressman Larson said. “The United States has now been in Afghanistan for a decade – longer than any other conflict in our country’s history. I believe that the time has come for an immediate, yet responsible withdrawal of our armed forces.” Larson’s statements last night come on this morning’s news that President Barack Obama and British Prime Minister David Cameron will meet today to discuss a possible early withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. Throughout the course of last evening Larson and forum participants discussed the need for Syria’s Bashar al-Assad to step down and his support for the current US and UN sanctions of Iran as well as efforts to prevent that country from acquiring a nuclear weapon. Larson also discussed his support for the Israel and stressed the importance of China and Russia to play a stronger role in stopping some of the atrocities that are occurring throughout the Middle East. ###
03.13.2012	Says: “Only in the U.S. Senate Can A Common Sense Bill Get A Majority of the Vote And Still Fail” HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) expressed disappointment today that the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act (NAT GAS Act) was defeated as an amendment to the Transportation Bill even though a majority of the Senate – 51 Senators – voted for it. Because of Senate rules the amendment needed 60 votes to be included in the Bill. “Only in the U.S. Senate can a common sense bill like the NAT GAS Act get a majority of the votes and still fail,” Congressman Larson said. “Natural gas is affordable, abundant and American. It costs one-third less to fill up with natural gas than gasoline and we have enough natural gas here at home to meet our energy needs for the next 100 years, which means we can start weaning ourselves off foreign oil today. And on the jobs front, if we start making cars and trucks that run on natural gas, which the NAT GAS Act would help encourage, there’s the potential to create over a half a million American jobs. That’s why President Obama included NAT GAS as an important piece in his All-the-Above energy strategy. “It’s a real shame that 47 Senators who apparently still believe that the answer to our energy future is just more money to Big Oil were able to block this common sense approach with a procedural vote. That’s just more evidence of why the public is so disgusted with Congress and our inability to get things done,” Larson added. “With gas prices on the rise and speculation rampant, we need to bring NAT GAS up in the House for a vote and the Senate needs to consider the issue on its merits. It’s the right thing to do for the nation.” The NAT GAS Act aims to provide a tax credit for the purchase of a natural gas truck; create a new tax credit for equipment manufacturers that produce natural gas vehicles (NGVs) to encourage production and sale in the U.S.; and, provide grants for the development of light- and heavy-duty NGVs and engines to ensure the U.S. stays at the forefront of clean energy development. The bill enjoys over 180 bipartisan sponsors in the House of Representatives and even earned the endorsement of President Barack Obama last year. Congressman Larson vowed to continue to fight for the NAT GAS Act in the House of Representatives. ###
03.09.2012	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on today’s report that the U.S. economy added 227,000 jobs in February, enjoying the 24th straight month of private sector job growth. “With 24 months of jobs creation, it’s clear that we’re finally getting the economy back on the right path and businesses are seeing their bottom lines grow. But too many families are still stuck in what one of my constituents rightly calls the dark abyss of uncertainty. With millions of Americans still out of work and suffering, economic recovery cannot come fast enough. Small businesses, entrepreneurs and the middle class shouldn’t have to wait for assistance because this is an election year. “Congress must act with the President to get America working again and rebuild our middle class. Instead of repackaging old bills and calling them a Jobs Act like the majority did this week, we should take up President Obama’s Jobs Act and a bipartisan transportation bill – putting both Republican and Democratic ideas to work to help create jobs today and grow a strong, sustainable economy for years to come. “It’s time for Congress to work together to move our country forward so that we can once again put the American Dream in reach for all Americans.” ###
03.09.2012	Voting at more convenient time will increase voter turnout Washington, D.C.— Today, U.S. Congressmen Steve Israel (D-NY) and John Larson (D-CT) announced legislation to change Election Day from the first Tuesday in November to the first full weekend, thereby making it more convenient for voters and increasing voter turnout. Rep. Israel said, “Voting should be easy and accessible. This is why, in 1845, Congress decided that voting on a Tuesday made sense. It was the easiest day for farmers in our agrarian society to get to the polls. But times have changed, and Tuesday voting just doesn’t make sense anymore. By moving Election Day from a single day in the middle of the work week to a full weekend, we are encouraging more working Americans to participate. Our democracy will be best served when our leaders are elected by as many Americans as possible.” Rep. Larson said, “As a representative democracy, voting is a fundamental responsibility for all Americans and the system should be as accessible as possible for as many as possible. Unfortunately, the system we have now was designed to meet our country’s needs over 160 years ago and it no longer makes any sense. It’s time we stop making people choose between exercising their responsibility to vote, and meeting their everyday obligations.” The Weekend Voting Act would allow for national polls to be open from 10 a.m. (Eastern Time) Saturday to 6 p.m. (ET) Sunday in the 48 contiguous states. Election officials would be permitted to close polls during the overnight hours if they determine it would be inefficient to keep them open. The long-standing tradition of holding federal elections on the first Tuesday of November began with an act of Congress in 1845. Tuesday was selected for its comparative convenience because it was a designated “court day” and the day in which land-owners would typically be in town to conduct business. The tradition was based on the then-agrarian American society. Currently, most polls are open only 12 hours (from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.) for one day. As seen in the 2008 and 2004 elections and primaries, long lines in many polling places kept voters waiting longer than one or two hours. Voter turnout in the United States has long lagged behind similar democracies around the world. Only 47 percent of eligible voters actually voted in the United States. In Italy, where voting takes place on the weekends, 92 percent of eligible voters voted. Ambassador Andrew Young, Chairman of the Board of Why Tuesday?, a 501c3 non-partisan organization founded in 2005 to find solutions to increase voter turnout and participation in elections , said, “I want to commend Reps. Israel and Larson for their steadfast commitment to the issue of voting rights and protecting the right to vote. Through the challenging times of the sixties I worked alongside our nation's leaders on both side the aisle, and of course Dr. King, to remove barriers to the franchise. Moving Election Day from Tuesday to Saturday and Sunday would be an extraordinary step to make sure all Americans have the opportunity to make their voices heard.” Norman J. Ornstein, Why Tuesday? Board Member and Resident Scholar said, “Americans vote at a rate far behind most nations in the world -- we rank 138th of 172 countries. Of the G8 nations, we rank dead last in voter turnout and five of the seven nations that vote ahead of us vote on a weekend or national holiday. Despite convenience voting options for Americans in 35 states, in 15 states voting is Tuesday-or-bust. It's time to make this common-sense change to our voting system.” ###
03.06.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-37) and guest speaker Daniel Weiss, Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress, held a press avail before the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Congress to act to address jobs and gas prices. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning. It's always good to see everybody and let me say, since this is the last presser that we'll have before the high holiday of St. Patrick's Day, let me wish you all a very glorious St. Patrick's Day and Erin Go Bragh. Rep. Becerra: Celebrating with the tie already, huh? [Noting Chairman Larson’s green tie] Rep. Larson: Oh yeah, it'll get a shade greener and greener as we march towards the day and hopefully my hair doesn't turn green this year. I'm pleased to be joined by our Vice Chair, Xavier Becerra and Dan Weiss, both of whom you're going to hear from. And Mr. Weiss is an expert and has very good insight into gasoline prices and their most recent rise. We also are very saddened to learn of the passing of a dear friend and one of our colleagues, Don Payne. So I'd ask just for a brief moment of silence out of respect to Don Payne. [Moment of Silence] Thank you very much. Don was a – I had the great honor of having him up to my district on several occasions, most memorable when he was one of the Members of the Congressional Black delegation who tolled the bell for the victims of the Amistad slave trade, that you may recall from your history, that it was the Amistad that threw off their captors and sailed into New London harbor in Connecticut. And Cinqué led this revolt that ultimately went all the way to the Supreme Court with one of the most distinguished Members of the House, former President-then-House Member John Quincy Adams defending and winning the case for Sengbe and all of the people from Sierra Leone who were part of that incredible trek through history. Of course that further spurred on the abolitionist movement which we all know led to the Civil War. So a little piece of history, and Don loved history and was just a terrific, terrific Member and he will be sorely missed. Our thoughts and prayers go out to his family. Well we're here again today, still awaiting – I say 'awaiting' but as all of you are aware, the Republicans are processing four – well, four of the six bills they are processing have been previously passed unanimously in the House of Representatives. We applaud them for at least taking minor steps forward, and – feels like Groundhog Day, going over and passing the same four of the six bills again. But it's been 427 days and we still need to make sure that the jobs bill that the President has action and that the infrastructure bill that will put the country work gets taken up in the House of Representatives. Today, not only are we hearing from Mr. Weiss, but we'll also be hearing from Leo Hindery in our Caucus on jobs bills as well. For us, the equation remains very specific: job creation equals deficit reduction. That will remain our myopic focus. We further hope that the transportation bill that's been pulled and doesn't seem as though it will addressed, contains within it important infrastructure jobs bill. We know the roads and bridges and condition that the engineers all across the country have found the deplorable state that bridges are in. We don't want to have another incident like we saw in Minnesota or, frankly, one that I saw in my state several years ago with the Mianus River Bridge. These have been certified as structurally insufficient to go forward. It's long overdue that Congress take action on this. And with that, let me turn it over to my colleague, Xavier Becerra, the Vice Chair. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I'll just add a couple of quick points. Just because you regurgitate a few bills and package them together, even though we've already passed them out doesn't mean you have a jobs agenda. And I think most Americans have been waiting quite some time, over 450 days now, for the Republicans in the Congress, using their leadership capacity, to give us a jobs agenda--a true jobs agenda. If they can't do that, then at least what they should do is pass something that we do every few years because the American people have paid for it, and that's a transportation authorization bill, which essentially returns to Americans the gas tax money that they've been paying for years back to them so they can invest it in their communities to improve their roads, rebuild their bridges, improve their mass transit systems. Yet what we have is Republican roadblock that is caused only by Republicans because it's an internal hassle, an internal fight between Republicans on doing the transportation bill which used to be completely bipartisan in its nature, and would always pass. Because every single Member in the House and Senate would be returning revenues to their communities that taxpayers have been paying for years. Unfortunately the House Republican bill, as we saw, was filled with extraneous and controversial measures, which would have led to about 500,000 Americans' jobs being lost, not gained, and it would have jeopardized the trust fund for all of our highway investment and, certainly for mass transit, it probably would have eliminated. And so if you can't come up with a jobs agenda, at least get the transportation bill through the Senate and the House and to the President so we can put a lot of those construction workers back on job. And we can also let Americans not suffer through the potholes and the long lines that occur when we don't invest in our infrastructure. Final point: about a year ago today, the price of gasoline in Los Angeles was about $3.90. About a month ago today, the price of gasoline in Los Angeles was about $3.82 a gallon. Today the price of gasoline is about $4.42 a gallon, on average, in Los Angeles. In one month, we've had about a 60 cent rise in the price of gasoline. What in the last month has occurred with the supply or the demand to cause prices to go up so much? It's speculation. We know it, and we have to get to that if we're going to resolve this issue for a lot of Americans who are having to spend a lot of extra money to put gas in their car or their vehicle. And I hope that what we can do is, on a bipartisan basis, start tackling the real devil when it comes to energy prices and that’s the speculators who are making lots of profits at the expense of the American public. This is another Exxon energy crisis in the making. If we don’t get our foot on it right now, a lot of Americans will lose a lot of good money and we will once again watch as the Republicans put their foot on the brake of an economy that’s trying to recover. And so with that, let me yield back to the Chairman. Rep. Larson: Thank you Xavier and as you noted last week, and several people have, in the midst of this gasoline spike we don’t see any long lines at the gas station. We don’t see people rationing their gas supply because there is an abundance of supply. The hard truth is that all of our refineries are full—they are full to capacity. As the President pointed out, we’ve doubled the capacity of oil that we are producing here in this country. And so there remains a problem out there that people who want to repeal Dodd-Frank or people don’t want regulation overseeing speculators and what they do—well, frankly, we think that this needs a hard look. And with that, let me introduce our guest, as well, who will be speaking before the Caucus today on gas prices, Dan Weiss. Daniel Weiss, Center for American Progress Senior Fellow: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Thank you Mr. Vice Chairman. My name is Daniel J. Weiss. I’m a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress Action Fund. I’ll be talking with the Caucus today about high gasoline prices. As the Chairman and Vice Chairman were just talking about, they exact real economic toll on the middle class. They pay more for gasoline at the pump and they pay more for goods and services. Fortunately, under this Administration we are producing more of our own oil. For the first time since the Clinton Administration, we are producing majority of the oil that we use here. We are also saving more oil. We are using the least amount of oil since February of 2001 and people remember right before that event, which was the swearing in of President Bush. So, we’re saving more oil than we have in over ten years. But, nonetheless, we are unable to have an impact on prices. Why? Because the oil price is set on global market by a cartel: the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly referred to as OPEC. When the United States increases its oil production—as it has—it’s very easy for other countries to reduce their oil production in order to keep the price up. In fact, a Saudi Arabian oil minister in January said that they thought the ideal price for oil was about $100 per barrel, a little bit less than the $107 per barrel oil is selling for today. So, because the oil is set on a worldwide basis, producing more our own oil is good for our economy—don’t get me wrong—using less oil is good for consumers, they’ll save money and reduce pollution, but ultimately the solution to this oil price roller coaster is to dramatically reduce our dependence on oil. The President has already taken some steps to do so by doubling our fuel economy standards over the next fifteen years so that we will save over 2 million barrels of oil per day, as well as consumers saving $8,000 over the lifetime of their car in lower gasoline purchases. We need to take other steps to get alternative fuels invested in. That includes electric cars, there’s a bipartisan bill to do that. Investing in natural gas trucks. Mr. Chairman is a co-sponsor of that bill, along with John Sullivan, a conservative Republican of Oklahoma—that would also help. We need to invest in transit, as Vice Chairman Becerra was saying that transit saves billions of gallons of gasoline every year, as well as creating jobs. Unfortunately, the highway bill that is pending before the House right now would eliminate certain funding for transit. So, those are things we have to do to get off of oil. We need double fuel economy. We need to invest in alternatives like electricity and natural gas. And we need to invest in transit. Those are the ultimate solution to high gas prices. In the short run, there are some people in the Caucus and others on the outside—I’m one of them—that believe, along with our allies, we should sell a small amount of our reserve oil, put it in the marketplace, that will burst the speculative bubble—that burst the idea that Wall Street speculators that price will always go up at times like this. And every time it’s been done, under Republican and Democratic presidents, it has cut the price of oil and gasoline by anywhere from 5% to 17%. In fact, the Gingrich Congress did it in 1996 not because of high oil prices, but to sell some of our reserve oil to reduce the federal budget deficit. Seems to me that now would be a good time to sell some of that oil, along with our allies selling some of their reserve oil to burst that speculative bubble. Again, thank you very much for having me here and I’ll be honored to take any questions that aren’t directed towards the gentlemen. Rep. Larson: Thank you very much and our Caucus begins ... two minutes ago. If you forgive us, we will just take a couple of questions, quick. Q: Do you agree with Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu that the time for diplomacy and sanctions in Iran is running out? And do you think the United States should consider military action to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon? Rep. Larson: Well, I agree with the President and I thought the President was very firm in his remarks and said very clearly that Iran having a nuclear capability was not acceptable. But the President was also firm in terms of making sure that we ratchet up sanctions and ratchet up the diplomacy. That, I think, is the preferable route, but we stand committed and firm behind the great state of Israel—our greatest ally and a great democracy in the Middle East. Q: Do you think the unusual amount of focus by the Republicans on the Iran-Israeli issue is because of election year politics? Rep. Larson: Jeez, do you think they might do that? I think the President has, in terms of foreign policy, done an incredible job. When we look out at what the President inherited — when we see that we’ve wound down the war in Iraq and are doing so in Afghanistan, as we speak; that Osama bin Laden has been captured and killed; that Kaddafi is no longer an effective dictator in Libya; that an Arab Spring was ushered in; that a change in foreign policy from preemptive strike and unilateral action has changed to a matter of using United States diplomacy — making sure that we gather everybody, as the President did in the case of Libya, especially our Arab allies to the forefront — that there is a team effort, recognizing what needs to be done in the region. To the extent that this is an election year, yes, I think the Republicans have turned it up on several fronts, but most notably their focus seems to be on women’s issues more so than on foreign policy. Thank you very much. # # #
03.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today announced two staff changes in his DC legislative office. Lee Slater has been promoted to Chief of Staff to succeed Shelley Rubino who is departing at the end of the month. Additionally, David Sitcovsky, currently a Legislative Assistant, has been promoted to take over Slater’s current role as Legislative Director. John Rossi will continue to serve as Chief of Staff for District Operations. “Lee has been a great asset to both me and the 1st District since joining my staff,” said Larson. “As my Legislative Director he has helped manage my legislative agenda with a deep understanding of the legislative process and good judgment and leadership. I know that we can count on him to keep fighting for the 1st District, Connecticut, and the nation in his new role as Chief of Staff of my legislative office.” “Similarly, David has shown both a tremendous work ethic and in-depth knowledge of the issues we face every day,” Larson added. “Skills I know will serve him well as he continues his work for our great state as my Legislative Director.” “I want to thank Chairman Larson for this opportunity and the trust he has bestowed in me,” said Lee Slater. “Since joining the Chairman's staff, I have been honored to work with a highly professional and supportive team. Together we have served the first district of Connecticut and the nation to our utmost ability and I am now looking forward to continuing this work in my new capacity as Chief of Staff.” "It has truly been an honor to work for Congressman Larson and the people of the First Congressional District over the past four years and I greatly appreciate the opportunity to continue serving the District in this new role," Sitcovsky added. Slater has served on Larson’s staff in a legislative capacity since 2008, working as Legislative Director since May, 2009. He previously worked for Congressman Jason Altmire of Pennsylvania, and served in the United States Army Reserves, including deployments in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom in Iraq. He earned his Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science from the University of Pittsburgh. A native of Glastonbury, CT, Sitcovsky has served his home district on Larson’s staff as a Legislative Assistant since 2008. He graduated from the University of Connecticut with a Bachelor's in Sociology and Political Science and earned a Master’s in Public Policy from the College of William and Mary. # # #
03.02.2012	Hosts Assistant Secretary Of Labor Jane Oates for A Public Forum on the Program That Matches Available Manufacturing Jobs with Job Seekers HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) welcomed Assistant U.S. Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training, Jane Oates, to Hartford this afternoon to participate in a public forum on the recently-launched Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative. The Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative was launched last November as an effort by Congressman Larson in conjunction with the Connecticut Department of Labor, the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), Capital Workforce Partners and the Connecticut Board of Regents for Higher Education to match unemployed manufacturing professionals with local businesses who are hiring. “A strong and thriving manufacturing sector is critical to our economy. Study after study has shown that there are job openings in Connecticut’s manufacturing sector and it is our hope to help match professionals with those openings. Already, in such a short period of time, the Job Match has produced results,” Congressman Larson said. “I’m glad to have Assistant Secretary Oates here today to see how this program works. I think it would make a perfect model for the Department of Labor to use around the country to get America working again.” Despite the short period of time since the program’s launch, 13 individuals have already been hired by nine local manufacturers, while dozens of others have been identified as ready to be placed or in need of additional training. “Connecticut’s Manufacturing sector has always been a major contributor to job openings in our state,” said Connecticut Department of Labor Commissioner, Glenn Marshall. “With 22,000 openings last year and positions remaining unfilled, it was time to do something radically different to connect candidates with the right skills to employers who are searching for them. Having had our first successful job matching event, we are hoping to take this success and bring this program to scale for other types of manufacturing jobs. We believe this initiative will prove to be an example for the rest of the country to follow and applaud Congressman Larson for reaching out and partnering with us to meet employers needs and get people back to work in good paying jobs.” “The Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative is a model that has demonstrated the ability to match qualified jobseekers with the workforce needs of local manufacturers,” said Elliot A. Ginsberg, President & CEO of CCAT. “By assessing the specific manufacturing capabilities of potential candidates and connecting them to manufacturers with available job openings through a ‘speed interview’ process, we have facilitated successful job matches, a win-win for jobseekers and employers”. Registration for the job match ran from November through December of 2011. During that time 368 job seekers and 59 businesses registered for the program. Of those 368 job seekers that signed up, 97 were identified as “Track 1” candidates (those with training and experienced that are ready to be matched), 233 were identified as “Track 2” candidates (those with limited training and experience) and 55 were identified as “Track 3” candidates (those with no prior training or experience). Since the beginning of 2012 approximately three dozen “Track 1” job seekers and 40 businesses attended two different job match events. Interested job-seekers and businesses can learn more about how to participate in upcoming matches by contacting Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888. ###
02.28.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Vice Chairman Xavier Becerra (CA-31) held a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Congress to act on the long delayed transportation bill to help improve the economy both today and for generations to come as well as cracking down on oil speculators to fight high gas prices. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: I am pleased to be joined by the Vice Chair of our Caucus. We just concluded our Caucus, where we listened to our members. We conducted more than four hundred and twenty programs out in the district: town halls, “Congress on the Corners,” forums, in which we were seeking feedback from our constituents and there is one thing that remains clear: the main issue still remains jobs, jobs, jobs. What’s appalling is that we have an opportunity here, again this week, to have the Transportation Bill—one that works—one that affords us the opportunity to put the country back to work and yet no decision and no bill coming forward on the Floor of the Congress. In fact, it’s been more than some four hundred and twenty days now since we’ve seen any kind of action with respect to that and the simple fact that everybody understands —we’ve been saying this mantra now for months—job creation equals deficit reduction. For every billion dollars expended in transportation creates 35,000 jobs. In this Republican controlled House of Representatives we’ve yet to see any semblance of a bill to put America back to work and they continue not to take up the President’s jobs bill as well. The American people are fed up. Every time we go out and hold a public forum and a public hearing on this basis they say “why can’t Congress come together and create the kind of jobs—why won’t they take up the President’s bill and put the country back to work?” It’s our hope, because we know that there are many rational minded Republicans on the other side of the aisle that understand the importance and the historic significance of a bipartisan transportation bill aimed not at Democrats or Republicans, but at our respective states and its infrastructure system that is in desperate need of repair. The American Society of Engineers has indicated that one in nine bridges is in need of structural repair. I come from a state where, in the early eighties, we saw the collapse of the Mianus River Bridge. We have a huge problem in the state of Connecticut, as been identified by the Department of Transportation and civil engineers, but this is true all across the country: the structural need to make these investments now. We cannot delay any further. I urge our Republican colleagues to get their act together and come to the floor with a bill that will put this country back to work. Xavier… Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, I would just add that you need to repeat - four hundred and twenty days. That’s probably the biggest message from this Congress that we’ve seen: that day after day we continue to see no progress coming from our Republican colleagues who run the House in job creation. And I don’t believe any of us - when we started keeping count of the days, tracking the calendar on no jobs creation by Republicans - none of us expected to be talking now about four hundred and twenty days into this Republican majority and, yet, no job creation in the face of a President who had given this Congress several proposals to move this country forward. And the only lucky thing is that, despite Republicans with their foot on the break, the President has been able to make quite a bit of progress. 3.8 million jobs in the last, essentially, two years. We have continued to see job growth for nineteen consecutive months and we are fortunate that the American people have found a way through all of the difficult times to start to pick up in its confidence on the economy. But I will tell you this: between now and the end of the year we could continue to see Republicans trying to foist all of these controversial and extraneous measures on top of essential legislation, whether it’s the budget or whether it’s job creation - we’re in real trouble. We almost saw that play out with this conference committee on the payroll tax cut for 160 million working Americans where the Republicans were trying to insert into that legislation - crucial legislation - things that were totally extraneous to the issue and certainly extremely controversial, but at the end Republicans backed down; the President was able to move forward a good portion of his jobs creation agenda. And so we will see. Can we move forward? Do we have to wait for brinkmanship to occur again? Or will we try to really get American back to work? And sooner or later folks in Congress are going to have to get off the couch and get to work. If job one of this Congress truly is to getting America back to work, then folks have to get off that couch and stop playing games with controversial, extraneous measures and let’s focus on what we can agree on, bipartisanly, to move this country forward. Rep. Larson: Time for a few questions… Q: Do you favor tapping the strategic petroleum reserve to get lower gas prices? I know that some in your party have said that… Rep. Larson: I think it is—what we want to focus on is the unbelievable speculation. Back in my district, again, we met with the distributors—primarily small business Republicans I will point out—who are thoroughly upset with the fact that with all of our refineries full, with us producing and the President doubling the amount of oil that the country has produced—what they’re saying is, “if Ahmadinejad sneezes, what gives the right of speculators to continue to jack up the price of oil?” So it gets back to a Republican-controlled body that says “we need no regulations. We don’t need to see them. We ought to let the marketplace work.” Show me an example where the marketplace works with respect to oil distribution. And, yet, we continue to provide subsidies to the oil companies? We ought to be taking the subsidies that they get and provide a dividend for every single American so they can afford their home heating oil and so they can pay for their gas prices. I think that’s what’s the most troubling thing. Rep. Becerra: Can I just add: I think the President has it right. He has said that our strategy on energy is an all-of-the-above strategy, which should include considering the opportunity of using the Strategic Oil Reserves, if necessary. How many of you are stuck behind long lines at gas stations? Not a one. There isn’t a problem with supply. It’s more the issue, as the Chairman just said, of speculation. Now, the difficulty is this: the oil companies are jacking up the prices, but they’re not giving the consumers back the money if no crisis occurs. And so, the speculation is driving up profits dramatically and I guarantee you when Big Oil reports its quarterly profits you will see hefty profits at the expense of average consumers who are having to pay more for their gas. So the reality is this: you got to go after the gougers. You have to make it so that they can’t win. One of the tools you might use is a Strategic Oil Reserve, because there isn’t a shortage of gas and as soon as it’s clear that the speculators are just driving up prices, guess what? They’ll come down, but you have to have the all-of-the-above strategy to be able to go after those who care nothing about the American consumer, and care only about making as much as they can in profits. Q: Republicans are offering a jobs package this afternoon. Any thoughts on that? Rep. Larson: We haven’t seen it, but anything that the Republicans offer with respect to jobs I think will be a welcome change. We’d like to see the details and perhaps join with them and I hope as part of that package they offer the President’s plan. I think out of mere courtesy they should bring the President’s plan to the Floor. They have the votes. If they don’t agree with that plan, modify it or vote against it. But certainly it’s long overdue to have the jobs bill come to the Floor and let’s hope that they bring one. Q: Going back to strategic petroleum reserves, combined with the Republicans’ push for the Keystone Pipeline: Is there a concern that they will be able to paint you as not wanting to lower gas prices?...(inaudible). Rep. Larson: I think that might be the attempt, but I think as the Vice Chair pointed out, the President has said: “all of the above.” My understanding has been the same as T. Boone Pickens, because that’s what he’s said for so long, going back for years. Look, when you look at what we have in terms of the abundance of natural gas, when you look at a hundred years of reserves, there’s an opportunity here. So what’ll we see happen is an artificial manipulation of the market. I want to also point out that it’s an interesting phenomenon that’s occurring around here with respect to protection of the oil interests. The interest of the Koch brothers with regard to oil subsidies, but not wanting to see the Natural Gas Act, which has broad bi-partisan support, go forward. Rep. Becerra: I hope the media, the press, will not buy into this myth that we don’t have enough oil. And if so, I hope the next question is “Congressman, did you know we are drilling less?” or, “Congressman, did you know we’re extracting less?” or, “Congressman did you know that we actually produced less oil than we did a month ago, a year ago?” We’re producing more oil today than we did five years ago, ten years ago. As I said before, the proof is in the pudding. None of you is spending long hours in a gasoline line at your local gas stations. This is all driven by speculation” the “manipulators,” as the Chairman just said. And I think it’s shameful if anyone moves forward a message that misleads the American consumer. This is not a time for us to try to spook the American public into thinking there’s a shortage of gasoline. This is a time to get the American consumer to recognize that there are folks who are gaming the system when it comes to our gasoline and our energy, and they’re making tons of money. We saw it with Enron. We’ve seen it before. Guess what, as I said, once you see the corporate profits, the quarterly corporate profits of some of the Big Oil companies, you will understand that it isn’t a shortage of gasoline; it’s the manipulation of gas prices, which all fall on the backs of the American consumer. Rep. Larson: Last week AT&T announced in Hartford, Connecticut that it was converting 15,000 trucks to natural gas. And they noted that the reason they were doing this is because the price of natural gas in order to power those vehicles - that end up being made in America, engineered here in America, and then powered by American fuel, natural gas - was going to be both a short and long term cost-savings for them. The country is going to come to this place, and they’re going to come here largely because of efforts like AT&T, but we could provide these savings, and we could provide them to the American public with enactment of the Natural Gas Act and moving the country forward. Q: On transportation, you mentioned that you want a bi-partisan bill. It seems like Boehner doesn’t have the votes to get it across the finish line… Rep. Larson: You mean Boehner doesn’t have the votes in the Republican Caucus? Q: What would bring your Caucus on board, what do Democrats want to see on the bill? Rep. Larson: Well obviously for Democrats—the estimate is $1.2 trillion that’s going to be needed over time to properly fund and invest. We want to see the issue be addressed, with the structural problems that have been identified by engineers all across this country, and to make sure that there’s enough funding into the program so that we get the kind of jobs that we want. As I said before, for every billion dollars of investment in transportation, that’s a creation of 35,000 jobs. That’s nothing to sneeze at, and that’s certainly what we’d like to do and we would welcome the Republicans coming together. If they can’t, we would hope that like-minded people on that side of the aisle and certainly there are many of them—Bill Shuster, and Steve LaTourette and others who are working hard to try to come up with a rational program. Listen, everybody has highways and road systems and bridges and waterways and levy systems, all of which are in need of help and construction. This has traditionally been a bi-partisan effort, and something we would hope the colleagues will be able to come together, and put America back to work. Rep. Becerra: If could just really re-emphasize what the Chairman just said. This has always been a bi-partisan effort when it’s come to getting the Transportation Bill passed. It used to be a bipartisan effort, but, once again, extraneous, controversial measures are being added on to this very important bill which essentially sabotage it. As just pointed out by the question itself, it’s not the Democrats who are getting in the way, it’s Republicans themselves aren’t supporting these Republican bills, and on something very important like Transportation. The worst part about this is not that the Republicans are playing political games with the legislation that’s crucial. It’s the fact that every community in America has contributed to the Federal Treasury for that Transportation money. We all pay the gas tax. We all provide the resources for the Federal Government then to return those dollars so that communities can improve their roads, rebuild their bridges, do everything we need to get to work. And to stall that crucial legislation that used to always be handled on a bi-partisan basis is once again a sign of the failure of this Congress, and why we’ve now gone 420 days without a real jobs agenda in this Congress. Again, the folks that are paying the price are the folks back home. They are so far ahead of the politicians when it comes to getting stuff done, but this Congress is so wrapped up on the Republican side with controversy and extraneous measures, that it’s keeping even what used to be bi-partisan bill from moving forward. Thank you. Rep. Larson: Thank you very much. # # #
02.27.2012	HARTFORD – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra, President Don Shubert of the Connecticut Construction Trades Association and President Ed Reilly of the Building & Construction Trades Council to stress the importance federal transportation funding to Connecticut and the nation. Recently House Republicans proposed a transportation bill that would have made significant cuts to transportation funding and cost the nation over half a million jobs, including 12,000 in Connecticut alone. Secretary of Transportation Ray Lahood, a former Republican Congressman from Illinois, called the bill “the most partisan transportation bill I have seen in 30 years of public service.” “As Republican leadership in Congress continues to push an ideologically-driven agenda, it is the American people that continue to suffer,” Congressman Larson said. “Transportation is typically one of the most bipartisan issues that Congress takes up, however, House leadership has introduced a bill filled with poison pills and funding cuts that will do nothing to help the average commuter who spends the equivalent of one full week stuck in traffic each year. It’s time for House Republicans to work with Democrats and Senate Republicans to pass a transportation bill that makes the investments we need to improve our roads and get America back to work.” The lawmakers and labor leaders held a press conference today underneath the I-84 overpass on Flower Street in Hartford to promote replacing the aging I-84 viaduct – one of the many projects that could benefit from an adequately-funded transportation bill. "Connecticut's Capital City needs a transportation bill that not only improves our highway infrastructure but also enhances our ability to provide jobs and create space that generates revenue and promotes development," Mayor Segarra said. "I applaud Congressman Larson for continuing to do what he has always done - leading the charge for legislation that best serves the people of Hartford and the region." “For the last six months, leaders in Washington have repeatedly stated that the surface transportation bill is an important item for the jobs agenda,” Shubert said. “Congressman Larson has been very supportive on those issues. It is time for the rest of Congress to follow him and make transportation job number one by passing a fully funded long-range surface transportation bill.” “I would like to thank Congressman Larson of behalf of the building trades for his position on creating economic recovery in the state of Connecticut and for his position on rebuilding roads, highways, and bridges in the interest of public safety,” Reilly said. The current transportation authorization is scheduled to expire at the end of the month. It was originally passed by a vote of 412-8 in the House and 94-4 in the Senate and has been extended eight times as Congress tries to overcome partisan GOP gridlock. ###
02.24.2012	EAST HARTFORD, CONN. – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined AT&T leadership to highlight AT&T’s commitment to alternative fuel vehicles, in particular those powered by compressed natural gas. AT&T recently announced that they will be putting 15,000 alternative fuel vehicles on the road nationwide by 2018. In Connecticut, the company has deployed 274 alternative fuel vehicles, with 229 of them being powered by compressed natural gas. Congressman Larson has been a strong supporter of natural gas as an alternative to diesel fuel for the nation’s trucking and heavy-duty vehicle fleets. On average, it costs a third less to fill a vehicle with natural gas than traditional gasoline, and since 98 percent of the natural gas used by the United States is domestic, it is not subject to outside political and economic pressures. Natural gas is the cleanest fossil fuel – it produces less than half as much pollution as coal for electricity and up to 25 percent less than oil for transportation. Recognizing the benefits of natural gas, Larson is a lead sponsor of the bipartisan NAT GAS Act which incentivize the use of natural gas to power vehicle fleets. “When it comes to big trucks, natural gas is a natural choice. Not only is it abundant, affordable, and American – which means it’s good for companies bottom line and the nation’s economy – but it also burns cleaner than diesel fuels and is better for our environment.” Congressman Larson said. “That’s why I’m such a big proponent of the NAT GAS Act, and why I’m honored to be here today with AT&T to see how they are taking the lead in moving towards cleaner alternative fuel vehicles for their fleet. I hope other businesses here in the greater-Hartford area and throughout Connecticut will recognize the potential of natural gas and do the same.” The NAT GAS Act, which currently has 181 co-sponsors and has been endorsed by President Obama, would provide a tax credit for the purchase of a natural gas truck; create a new tax credit for equipment manufacturers that produce natural gas vehicles (NGVs) to encourage production and sale in the U.S.; and, provide grants for the development of light- and heavy-duty NGVs and engines to ensure the U.S. stays at the forefront of clean energy development. Joining the Congressman to take a look at the one of the new vehicles was AT&T Connecticut President Rodney Smith. ###
02.16.2012	WASHINGTON – Connecticut Senators Joe Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal and Representatives John Larson and Rosa DeLauro announced Thursday that the South Fire District in Middletown has been awarded $114,350 to improve operations and safety within the department. The grant is funded through the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program (AFG). Middletown will use the award to purchase updated equipment and provide additional training to its first responders. “Middletown’s first responders have courageously answered the call to action with an unwavering commitment to their duty, time and time again. Their dedication to our safety has earned the men and women of the South Fire District our trust as we continue to turn to them during times of crisis,” said Lieberman. “I am deeply honored to be able to announce this grant as a way of showing these brave men and women that their acts of valor have not gone unnoticed.” “These grants affirm our commitment to our first responders and our appreciation for their bravery, sacrifice, and courage in routinely putting themselves in harm’s way to keep our communities safe,” said Blumenthal. “As we continue to get our fiscal house in order, I am heartened that support for our first responders, evidenced by this operations and safety grant for Middletown, continues to be a national priority.” “After much of Middletown was left in the dark during last Halloween’s blizzard, our brave firefighters rose to the occasion and were there for the community,” Larson said. “These individuals are not just our first and only line of defense against the outbreak of deadly fires, but they are our friends, families and neighbors. Every day they put on the uniform they risk their lives to protect our own and they deserve the best equipment available. I look forward to working with Mayor Drew and the rest of our delegation to ensure that we continue to work to provide them with the funding they need to continue the excellent work we have come to expect from them.” DeLauro said: “These vital funds will help ensure that the first responders of the South Fire District have the support and the equipment that they need. These brave men and women are the front lines in protecting our communities every day, and we must provide them with the tools to do so effectively and safely. I am enormously proud of South Fire’s firefighters, and all of our first responders, and look forward to their continued good service.” Lieberman has a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000 and 2003, respectively, he was a cosponsor of the FIRE and SAFER Acts and on March 10, 2011, introduced the Fire Grant Reauthorization Act of 2011, legislation that reauthorizes the AFG and SAFER programs for five years. Since the FIRE and SAFER Acts were signed into law, FEMA has distributed 671 grants for a total of over $78 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities. Lieberman is also a Co-Chair of the Congressional Fire Caucus for the 112th Congress. Blumenthal has fought to ensure the fair provision of survivor benefits to the spouses and families of police officers and firefighters who have been injured, or lost their lives, in the line of duty. Larson, a strong supporter of first responders and their families, has sponsored a number of pieces of legislation to honor the men and women that serve their communities including, most recently, a bill to amend the U.S. law that would allow American Flags to fly at half mast to honor first responders who give their lives in the line of duty. DeLauro has been a strong supporter of first responders and firefighters on the House Appropriations Committee and fought to protect these grants from severe cuts. ###
02.15.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-31) held a press avail after the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Congress to pass an extension of middle class tax relief and unemployment insurance to help the millions of Americans struggling today. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Good morning and I hope everybody treated their significant others well yesterday for Valentine's Day. Remember the President did give you a reminder yesterday at his press conference so I hope everybody made out well. I'm honored to be here this morning with our Vice Chair, Xavier Becerra, who is of course one of our conferees and you'll be hearing from him shortly. And I just wanted to commend him and the conferees on their outstanding effort. We are certainly heartened by the fact that the Republicans have come around with regard to the payroll tax issue. This is an enormous victory for the American people, and clearly an enormous win for the President of the United States. We thank him for his persistency. We thank him for his continued involvement and commitment and I think being out there on the hustings certainly fortified the efforts of our working group and our conferees here on the Hill. We're pleased to see that Americans will be getting the kind of relief that they need. It's not entirely clear, but it seems with respect to unemployment and also what is commonly referred to as the doc fix, which we like to refer to as making sure that the elderly are going to be able to get the kind of service and the visitations that they need and therefore the screenings and the healthcare that they need from doctors, albeit we would have preferred a much longer version of that. So with that, while we continue to push to make sure we bring the President's jobs bill to the Floor, this is a positive step in Congress and I think it'll be viewed as that all around the country. Let us hope that the Republicans can take this deal to their Conference and come back and we can pass legislation here. I think that will send a very strong message for the country about Congress as an institution. With that, let me turn it over to the Vice-Chair of our Caucus and one of our leading conferees, Xavier Becerra. Rep. Becerra: Mr. Chairman, thank you very much and thank you for the leadership that you have exerted in our Caucus to try to keep us together and focused. I remember back last year when it was as a result of your leadership that the Democrats in the House, and I think Democrats generally, focused on jobs under the Super Committee's work and continue to stress the need to make sure that jobs was our number one focus here in Congress. So I thank you Mr. Chairman for your work in that regard. It seems that if you take a look at how we started this conference, Democrats said from the very beginning we have three assignments: to extend the payroll tax cut for 160 million working Americans, to make sure that Americans who have lost their job through no fault of their own are not punished as a result of this economic recession that we've been facing, and that we extend their unemployment benefits, as had been done for two months, and that we made sure that seniors in America weren't asked to pay the price for doctors leaving the Medicare program because they were not being adequately reimbursed by the system. Those were the three main principles of our mission. And we articulated that from the beginning. It seemed for a while that this conference might bog down on extraneous, controversial issues that were being put forward by our Republican colleagues. They talked about inserting a issue that was controversial on a pipeline, the Keystone pipeline. They talked about including reductions in protections of our air and water in how we treated boilers and incineration plants. They talked about requiring that all workers, in order to qualify for their insurance benefits, must go through drug testing, whether or not they'd ever taken a single drug in their life. And all these controversial matters took up quite a bit of our time. It now appears that on those three main issues, that we've made progress and that is good. The devil certainly is in the detail of any final deal and certainly as a conferee I'll want to take a close look at the actual language of any deal as it now seems to be taking shape. But I think at least we can say as Democrats, what we fought to secure, which was the payroll tax cut for 160 million working families will move forward, that we will continue to extend unemployment insurance to Americans who have lost their job through no fault of their own, and we will make sure that seniors who right now have a doctor of their choice under Medicare will continue to do so because we'll try to adequately reimburse doctors in America who are willing to take on seniors under Medicare. Those seem to be the most important aspects of a deal that seems to be working its way through, and we hope to see the details soon. But I want to thank the leadership in the House, I want to thank the Chairman of our Caucus, and all those who helped the five conferees selected in the House on the Democratic side for giving us good guidance and direction on how to proceed in this particular conference. Rep. Larson: Thank you very much and we'll take a few questions. We're on our way to a Ways and Means Committee meeting but-- Q: Specifically what remains unresolved? Rep. Becerra: I think the details on how some of this will actually play out - I know on the unemployment insurance side, Democrats have said that we should extend the insurance benefits that workers have been receiving. Republicans have talked about cutting those benefits. We know that in terms of how you handle the cost of this entire package there’s been some good compromise. Republicans, who at one point alleged that by not paying for the payroll tax holiday that we would endanger social security, now they are saying they are willing to move forward without paying for the payroll tax cut holiday and they are not saying that they are jeopardizing Social Security. So I think the myth that we would have jeopardized Social Security has now been put to rest, which is good. There is concern on the part, at least of this particular conferee, that we would be changing precedent if we ask working Americans to take a pay cut to pay for Unemployment Insurance benefits for those who have lost their job through no fault of their own. But we need to see the details of exactly how we will pay some of these provisions and how some of these will play out, especially with regard to the Unemployment Insurance that workers would receive. Q: It looks like the plan might be somewhere in the 70s, in terms of Unemployment Insurance benefits—the extension. Is that something that House Democrats could go for if that’s reduced from 99 to somewhere in the 70s? Rep. Becerra: The Chairman would probably want to answer this as well, but I would say this: Americans who are working until this recession should not be asked to pay a price because some in Congress — some politicians in Congress — are unwilling to extend those benefits beyond what is reasonably needed to get them back to work. The cut in benefits from what they currently are to something dramatically less, for me, would be unacceptable. I don’t believe the number would be the maximum number you just mentioned and it would differ for states. Some states have been hit harder and there are a lot of American workers in some states who have been unemployed for a longer period of time. And so that’s where I said the devil is in the details of exactly how this would play out. There are some states who are fortunate and don’t have high levels of unemployment and what we want to make sure of, though, is that any American who’s looking for work, making every effort to get back on his or her feet has that opportunity to do so and at the same time we got to remember that these unemployment benefits — insurance benefits — make it possible for Americans to continue feed their families, which keeps the economy, believe it or not, moving. So we’re hoping to see the details. Rep. Larson: We still regard unemployment as an emergency and that’s how it’s always been looked at on both sides of aisle over time. And you have to think to yourself: how much sense does it make, really, to pull the rug out from under someone who is out looking for a job and have them lose their unemployment benefit? Where do they go next? They would then go to TANF under our rules and under our laws within our states, which, of course, is an entitlement program. So, the so called “savings” that are trying to be achieved here aren’t available. So doesn’t it make more sense to keep people out there in the hunt for a job, with emergency money provided by Unemployment Insurance then sending somebody to a TANF program. So we continue — we would of course prefer the 99 weeks, etc, but whatever happens, ultimately, will be a matter of discussion between the conferees and, ultimately, on the floors of both chambers. One more question, then we’ve really got to go. Q: Republicans and Democratic staff have been putting out different numbers for the duration of benefits —73 and 75 from Democrats and Republicans have been saying 60. Rep. Larson: We agree with the Democrats, of course. {Laughter} Rep. Becerra: That’s where, as I said, the devil is in the details. Q: There no concern that there isn’t a deal on this since the sides are so far apart? Rep. Becerra: I remember when I was serving on the Super committee how we kept on hearing the news that there was a deal; I remember when I was on the Bowles-Simpsons Commission we were hearing that we were going to get the two-thirds vote necessary to get the deal. And I have heard we’ve got a deal wrapped up on the payroll tax cut conference. I’ve learned to wait until I see the deal to know that there’s a deal and I’d like to make sure I get to read to the fine print in any deal, because that’s where Americans will be concerned. We make look at this — or some politicians make look at this – from a global perspective. I think most Americans are looking at just how this is going to impact their family and are we really doing something to try and help boost the American economy. I think we have to see the details and any number of things are being discussed and any number of things are being drafted to try and put into writing what might be a final deal. And, ultimately, we still have to get a vote out of the conference and get the President to sign it after a Congress will pass it. We’re still a long ways from getting there, but certainly we’ve made progress in that the gamesmanship that was played in trying to include controversial and extraneous measures in this very important conference report, at least seem to be almost over. Q: If it’s a long ways it doesn’t seem like there’s going to be a today announcement? Rep. Larson: Listen, we’ve seen this play before. So, as the Vice Chair has pointed out: we sincerely hope that when Mr. Boehner emerges from his conference that there will be unanimity on that side and, in fact, a deal would have been struck, which is—we’ve already said—we think would be a great thing for the American people and certainly an enormous win the President, because he’s been so out hustings on this issue. But, as the Irish say, “It’s a long way to Tipperary.”As you all painfully know, things have had the ability to change around here rather rapidly when it appears that a deal has been struck and then it appears that that deal is no longer in place. We hope, and the signs seem to point that way and now we can only wish them well on the other side and thank them for coming to their senses on these very important issues. Thank you so much. # # #
02.15.2012	Crisis for New England Families Approaches As Heating Oil Prices, Demand for Help Remain High WASHINGTON – As the country continues to slowly recover from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and unrest abroad has resulted in increasingly high oil prices, a crisis in the price of heating oil is brewing among low-income households throughout the region. In response to this looming threat, and to the continued under-funding of energy assistance programs, Reps. John B. Larson (CT-01) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) yesterday introduced H.R. 4026, the Energy Assistance for American Families Act, which would increase the level of funding for and expand availability to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, or LIHEAP, expanding a vital safety net for thousands of Connecticut homes and millions of American families. Joined by fellow New England members of Congress Ed Markey (MA-07) and Peter Welch (VT-AL), the lawmakers announced the bill today at a press conference outside the Capitol. “Despite the unseasonably warm weather, budget cuts to LIHEAP could still leave many Connecticut residents out in the cold this winter,” Larson said. “For millions of Americans nationwide programs like LIHEAP are critical in helping families make it through the winter. My office was recently contacted by ‘Susan’ – a 75-year-old veteran’s widow from Granby who was emailing us from her 54 degree home because her heat allowance was dropped from $605 to $175 this year. At a time when so many Americans like Susan are suffering, it is an outrage that Republicans continue to cut funding for LIHEAP while providing unnecessary tax breaks to big oil companies. I hope that members of both parties see the necessity of programs like these and come together to pass this bill.” “With 8.3% unemployment and one in six in poverty, millions of people are really struggling all over this country. Connecticut has been particularly hard-hit, along with the rest of the Northeast states-- we have some of the coldest winters in America, and are more reliant on heating oil than any other part of the country. The massive cuts to the LIHEAP program in recent years are forcing families to have to make extraordinarily tough choices. No one should have to choose between buying groceries or keeping their homes warm,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “The Energy Assistance for American Families Act will continue the vital LIHEAP program, increase funding levels, and help to increase access for families in need.” A copy of the legislation can be found HERE. The Energy Assistance for American Families Act would increase the authorized funding level for LIHEAP to $7.6 billion per year for fiscal years 2013 to 2016, an increase of $2.5 billion over the last authorized level, enacted in 2005. The bill would also extend the expanded eligibility levels that were included in the omnibus appropriations bills for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 – giving states the option of helping families with incomes up to 75 percent of the state median income level. Overall demand for LIHEAP support is rising, in large part due to the economic downturn. Increasing the LIHEAP funding level will allow states to meet this increased demand and continue to provide meaningful aid. According to the National Energy Assistance Directors Association (NEADA), states assisted 8.9 million households through LIHEAP last year – a 54 percent increase in the number of households served in 2008. Energy prices are also on the rise, with the average household expenditures on heating oil this winter expected to increase to $2,326 from $1,801 in 2008-2009. # # #
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON –Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded President Obama’s decision to address concerns raised by the religious community in the new contraception rule being enacted by the Department of Health and Human Services: “As a strong supporter of healthcare reform and the plan to provide free preventative care - including contraception - to all Americans, I want to applaud President Obama for finding a path forward to provide coverage to everyone while addressing the conscience concerns of religiously-affiliated organizations. “It's clear that the President listened to the concerns of religious organizations, like Catholic Health Association, and took them seriously. As Sister Carol Keehan said ‘we are pleased and grateful that the religious liberty and conscience protection needs of so many ministries that serve our country were appreciated enough that an early resolution of this issue was accomplished.’ The result will be that every woman in America, no matter where she works, will have access to free contraceptive services, while no religiously-affiliated institution will have to provide coverage for these services. “In this politically charged environment, it is heartening to see that we can come together to find a path forward that protects the health needs of women while recognizing the conscience concerns of religious institutions.” # # #
02.10.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the announcement of the state Attorneys General $25 billion settlement with mortgage servicers: “I want to thank all of the Attorneys General, especially Connecticut Attorney General George Jepsen and former AG and current U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal, for their work in securing this agreement. This agreement is a fantastic first step in obtaining justice for the hundreds of thousands nationwide and here in Connecticut that were victims of the unfair lending practices that led to the foreclosure crisis. “Additionally, this settlement will offer aid to homeowners in need of loan modifications, payments to borrowers who lost their homes to foreclosure, and immediate payment to all the states, including Connecticut, who participated in this lawsuit. “This settlement, combined with the many provisions passed through the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, are helping Americans and ensuring that the policies that led to the 2008 financial crisis will not be repeated.” For additional information, please see this fact sheet provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. ###
02.09.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) voted today to pass the Stop Trading On Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act. The bill, approved with overwhelming bipartisan support, looks to ensure that Members of Congress cannot profit from information they learn in the course of their work. Larson released the following statement following the bill’s passage this morning: “This bill, while it could have been stronger, will help address Americans concerns over how their representatives are conducting themselves in Congress. Insider trading is not permitted for any citizen, nor should it be for any member of Congress, presidential administration, or employee of the executive or judicial branches.” ###
02.07.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by Robert Baugh, the Executive Director of the AFL-CIO Industrial Union Council, for a press avail before the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Congress to address Jobs. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Congressman Larson: Good morning and I’m honored this morning to be joined by Robert Baugh, who is the Executive Director for the AFL-CIO. I’m especially glad he’s here because he’s addressing our caucus as we continue to push towards jobs for this country. We start by noting that tomorrow will mark the four-hundredth day that Congress has been meeting without a jobs bill being brought to the Floor of the House of Representatives. We continue to hear from our Members and believe that we have to go out and re-ignite the American dream. How do we do that? We do that by creating jobs for the small businessman, for the entrepreneur to create innovation that bolsters our middle class. How do we that? By providing ladders of opportunity that they can reach through greater skill sets in education and investment by their government, so that we can put this country back to work. We do that by making things here in America with a focus on manufacturing. Nobody knows this better than our guest today, who is going to address our conference, let me give the podium to Robert Baugh, Executive Director of the AFL-CIO. Robert Baugh, Executive Director Industrial Union Council, AFL-CIO: Thank you, Congressman, you just gave me a big promotion. I’m the Executive Director of the Industrial Union Council, which is manufacturing…I think President Trumka would object to that…I’m Executive Director of the Industrial Union Council and we are a council made up of the manufacturing unions of this nation. I’m very honored to be here today to speak to the Caucus about this, but I think our message is very clear; that we are really pleased to see 50,000 manufacturing jobs created last month in this country, but I make the point we would have to have that for the next one-hundred months to hope to even regain what we’ve lost in the last decade. So we have dug ourselves a very deep hole and we have to have a long-term focus on revitalizing manufacturing in this economy. If you want to know what has been happening to the middle class, look at what has happened to manufacturing. Those are the good, working middle class jobs that have disappeared from this country and it doesn’t have to be this way. I think that’s our message here: it doesn’t have to be this way. We can be smart. We can be strategic as a nation and we can make a commitment to wanting to have manufacturing and take the steps forward necessary to make that scenario come true. We’ve done it before. We need to do it again. Congressman Larson: Thank you very much, Robert. We also know that the sands are sifting through the hourglass on the payroll tax initiative and we feel very strongly that this is something we could pass today. Once again, we feel like we’re being held hostage. Will this go up to the twenty-ninth of February when it absolutely has to be passed? This is something that, frankly, Democrats believe is an emergency and doesn’t need a pay-for, but if you’re going to pay for this, why not pay for it out of oil subsidies and the nation’s wealthiest one-percent? Let’s make the tough decisions that have to be made here in the United States Congress. People need this money and tough decisions are going to have to be made. We can pass this bill tomorrow. I don’t know why it’s being delayed from being brought on the floor and I thank you this morning for joining with us. We are on our way to be educated by the new Executive Director, frankly, of the Industrial Policy for the AFL-CIO, with all apologies to Mr. Trumka. Any questions before we go? Sure. Q: In terms of the payroll tax cut deal: a lot of people are referencing it, saying it might end the way the super committee did, with failure. Are you worried that it might fail? That the conference might not be able to get a deal? And, also, would you be open to a shorter term deal? Democrats have been talking about something like another two month deal. Congressman Larson: Listen, I think one of my constituents said it best: what we have created for the American people is the dark abyss of uncertainty. We have now punted this on two specific occasions. This would be a third time. What we need to do is provide the American economy and, more importantly, the American citizens with certainty. I would remind members of Congress, as well, when they check their paychecks this past month and they saw, all of a sudden, there was an increase in that, instead of the decrease that had been expected. It was because of inaction by the United States Congress and that’s what we need to, to have action. I think that it should be past for a year. I think it’s time to bite the bullet. Obviously, we don’t think it should be paid for. We think they should recognize it. However, if it’s going to be paid for, we think it should be oil subsidies and we think it should be a tax on the nation’s wealthiest one-percent. Not unreasonable. Q: I didn’t actually hear you say if you rule out a shot-term extension. Are you aiming high and settling low? Where are you? Congressman Larson: Well, we’re in the minority and, so, what I would rule out or not has little impact on what the majority will do. But, you know, in this place you can’t rule out anything. But, for God’s sake, it’s not about what I’ll rule out, it’s about what you are ruling out for the American people. You know? You are ruling out, again, creating more uncertainty, slowing down the economy. I get it, with respects to these guys. For God’s sake, the Speaker had to tell the Conference the other day that the transportation bill won’t create any jobs in order for it to pass. That’s the kind of environment that we’re operating in up here. I mean it’s the theater of the absurd. You want to put people back to work in this country. We still have 14 million out. Yes, we’re making steady progress and that’s a good sign, but why aren’t we putting the President’s bill on the Floor? Just out of common courtesy and decency. Clint Eastwood’s got its right: it’s halftime. Now, let’s kick the ball off and let’s take it down the field on behalf of the American people. Let’s demonstrate that we can work together in order to put this country back to work. And I apologize, but we have to go in…. Q: One quick question… Congressman Larson: Sure. Q: I know the other issue that is yet to be resolved are all of the reforms to Unemployment Insurance that the Republicans want. Do you see any room for compromise on that? With the drug screening…. Congressman Larson: I think, again, there is a very clear path in front of us. That path is to adopt the payroll tax cut. And we believe, again, that you don’t need any pay-fors to do that. This is an emergency. When in our history have we done this before? How about never. So, again, we are being hostages to a conference that can’t even agree itself on whether it’s for it or not and then is trying to hold Democrats hostage and, frankly, not even Democrats, but the people who are going to receive this, plunging them into the further abyss of dark uncertainty. We need solutions and answers. It’s over four-hundred days. They’ve had a lot of time to ponder on this. Let’s act. Let’s do the responsible thing as a Congress and pass this legislation, so people can get a predictable amount of money in their paycheck and know that it’s going to be there. Thank you. # # #
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced that the economy added 243,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent. This marks the 23rd consecutive month of private sector job growth: “Today’s job numbers are great news that show that despite the obstruction of Republicans in Congress, the actions we took with President Obama to spur economic recovery are working. But the continued high level of unemployment underscores the need for more action to promote growth and rebuild our economy. Too many Americans have been left in the dark abyss of uncertainty by the slow recovery and the indifference of Republicans in Congress. “We should be working to re-ignite the American Dream by investing in those things that have historically made our economy strong - small businesses, entrepreneurs and a thriving middle class. Instead, while the middle class is suffering, House Republicans are focused on defeating President Obama and pushing their extreme agenda, attacking Medicare and Social Security while defending tax breaks for their special interest friends. “We can’t wait another year to do what needs to be done. We’ve got a lot of work to do. And we need to get to it. The American people deserve no less.” # # #
02.03.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement today praising the Connecticut chapter of Susan G. Komen for the Cure for standing up to their national leadership and agreeing to continue to provide funding for breast cancer screening at state Planned Parenthood facilities. “While I am very pleased that nationally Susan G. Komen for the Cure has reversed their earlier decision to not provide funding for breast cancer screenings to Planned Parenthood, I want to acknowledge the bravery and leadership that our Connecticut chapter showed earlier this week in refusing to go along with this harmful policy decision. “Susan G. Komen for the Cure does incredible work raising money for breast cancer research, but their decision to cut funding to Planned Parenthood would have had negative consequences for millions of women nationwide and thousands here in Connecticut. From disease and cancer screening to pregnancy tests and prenatal services, Planned Parenthood provides critical health services to women who may otherwise not have access. “Again, I want to commend Komen Connecticut for setting an example for their national leadership and choosing women’s health over partisan politics.” ###
02.02.2012	Co-Sponsors Legislation Intended to Prevent Insider Trading by Members of Congress WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) called on the House Republican leadership today to bring the Stop Trading On Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act to the House Floor for a vote. The bill, which has 255 bipartisan cosponsors – including Larson – is intended to ensure that Members of Congress cannot profit from information they learn in the course of their work. The Senate is expected to pass a version of the bill this week. Larson’s statement is below: “The STOCK Act is intended to make it completely clear that it is illegal for Members of Congress to profit from the information they learn while representing their constituents. And, taking it a step further, it creates new disclosure requirements so that the public can see for themselves the trades made by their representatives. Unfortunately, I believe this reform is necessary to help ease public concerns. The public must know that not only are Members of Congress not exempt from insider trading laws, but that we’re willing to subject ourselves to an even greater level of scrutiny. “As a sponsor of the bill, I’m very glad to see the Senate moving to pass this reform. The Republican leadership needs to follow their lead and allow the bill to be considered by the House too.” ###
02.02.2012	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) congratulated South Windsor High School Senior James McKeown on recent news that West Point Military Academy has offered him an appointment for next year. “James represents the finest leadership qualities that all of us look for in young people throughout our state and country,” Congressman Larson said. “I was honored to recommend him to West Point and am pleased that the Academy has decided to offer him an appointment. I want to congratulate James and his entire family and look forward to seeing him become the terrific officer we all know he is capable of being.” "I was in shock when I found Major Nancy Bates at my front door holding my appointment to West Point,” McKeown said. “Realistically, I wasn’t expecting a decision until February or March. It was a wonderful surprise to learn that I will have the chance to do something I have been thinking about for a very long time. I appreciate the votes of confidence I received from Congressman Larson, Senator Blumenthal, and Major Bates, and am happy and honored to have this opportunity to serve our country." Last year McKeown went through an extensive interview process with Congressman Larson’s office, where he competed with dozens of other qualified candidates, before being recommended for appointment. He will receive a four-year education from West Point and leave the academy as a commissioned officer. ###
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Connecticut Senators Joe Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced Wednesday that the West Hartford Fire Department has been awarded a $103,200 grant for Operations and Safety from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant program (AFG). “Firefighters are crucial defenders of our safety and security,” Lieberman said. “Even in times such as these, when our nation’s wallet is stretched to its limit, we need to make smart investments and supporting our first responders certainly falls into that category.” Blumenthal said: "These grants will go a long way in supporting Connecticut's brave fire fighters in West Hartford by providing them with the necessary tools to keep our communities safe from fire-related hazards. First responders put their lives on the line each day, and we owe it to them to ensure that they are outfitted with the right tools and the proper safety equipment." “Just observing the yeoman’s effort last October during that terrible storm only serves as a reminder of how important our local fire departments are,” Larson said. “They are our friends, family and neighbors. They keep our homes and businesses safe. These brave individuals deserve the best equipment possible and I look forward to continuing to work with West Hartford Mayor Scott Slifka to give his department the tools needed so they can continue to do the fantastic work we have come to expect.” Lieberman has a long history of advocating for fire safety. In 2000 and 2003, respectively, he was a cosponsor of the FIRE and SAFER Acts and on March 10, 2011, introduced the Fire Grant Reauthorization Act of 2011, legislation that reauthorizes the AFG and SAFER programs for five years. Since the FIRE and SAFER Acts were signed into law, FEMA has distributed 669 grants for a total of over $76 million in Connecticut to help fire departments strengthen their response capabilities. Lieberman is also a Co-Chair of the Congressional Fire Caucus for the 112th Congress. Blumenthal has fought to ensure the fair provision of survivor benefits to the spouses and families of police officers and firefighters who have been injured, or lost their lives, in the line of duty. Larson, a strong supporter of first responders and their families, has sponsored a number of pieces of legislation to honor the men and women that serve their communities including, most recently, a bill to amend the U.S. law that would allow American Flags to fly at half mast to honor first responders who give their lives in the line of duty. ###
02.01.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement recognizing Black History Month, which begins today: “Black History Month is an opportunity to reflect on the diversity that makes this nation great; to honor the great contributions of African Americans; and to extend the legacy of the uniquely American promise of equality for all. I know that keeping that promise requires more than just lip service; it demands a firm commitment that everyone gets a fair shot at success regardless of their race, ethnicity, or background. “With families across the nation struggling to make ends meet, I understand the urgency to act now; to invest in our country, to transform our schools into centers of intellectual discovery and achievement, and to create jobs, so that prosperity can be shared by all. “America has been a land of opportunity because of the strong dedication of our leaders to working for something beyond themselves. Working to deliver on the promise of civil rights, equality, and justice. I, and my House Democratic colleagues, remain deeply committed to these ideals and to making sure that the American Dream is within reach of every American.”
01.30.2012	HARTFORD – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Hartford Hospital leadership to tour the brand new emergency department. The emergency department, which will officially open tomorrow, features 26 new treatment spaces and expand and update the existing emergency department from 30,000 square feet to include 14,200 renovated and 2,800 new square feet. “The men and women that serve as doctors and nurses as well as the countless support staff at Hartford Hospital provide a critical service to our community,” Congressman Larson said. “Facing an ever-increasing number of visits per year, these changes will help Hartford Hospital continue to provide the highest quality of care that we all have become accustomed to expecting. I want to commend Hartford Hospital Leadership for creating such a state-of-the-art facility that will serve our region, and state, for years to come.” Joining the Congressman on the tour of the hospital was a number of doctors and nurses, as well as Hartford Hospital President and CEO Jeffery Flaks and President and CEO of Hartford HealthCare Elliot Joseph. “This marks an important day in the transformation of our hospital campus, the ongoing development of our culture of excellence and the continued improvement in the quality of care we provide to our patients and their families,” said Hartford Hospital president and CEO, Jeffrey Flaks. “We want our Emergency Department, often a hectic place, to be as welcoming as possible to our community.” The original Hartford Hospital emergency department was built to accommodate 61,000 patient visits annually. Recent numbers have shown that the hospital actually sees close to 100,000 individuals on a yearly basis. ###
01.27.2012	HARTFORD, CT- Congressman John B. Larson (CT01) released the following statement regarding the proposed defense budget for Fiscal Year 2013: “Yesterday, Secretary Leon Panetta outlined his vision for the Department of Defense. While I understand the constraints of tight budgets and I appreciate the Secretary's efforts to make our military more efficient, I have serious concerns with a number of his proposals. “I am particularly concerned with Secretary Panetta’s announcement that he will attempt to terminate the C-27J Joint Cargo Aircraft - a project critical to our own CT Air National Guard. That’s why I am committed to working with my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee and the Appropriations Committee to ensure that any budget that moves forward protects the manpower, readiness, and relevance of our National Guard units. “Additionally, Secretary Panetta's announcement that he will be delaying the production of 179 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter is extremely troubling. It is time that we pull together and move forward with this critical national security priority. Delay adds additional costs to the overall program, places a significant strain on our nation’s industrial base, and jeopardizes the jobs of the highly skilled men and women working on the JSF all across Connecticut. This is simply unacceptable. "This is only the beginning of a long process and I am committed to working with my colleagues in the house and with Department of Defense officials to protect these critical programs."
01.23.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the decision by Congresswoman Gabby Giffords to retire from Congress to focus on her recovery: “Gabby Giffords commitment to her constituents, service to the country, tremendous strength, and message of civility is an inspiration to us all. “She will be sorely missed in the House. I wish her, and her husband Mark, all the best as they focus on her recovery. I hope she will be able to return to the public service she loves soon.” ###
01.19.2012	(Hartford, CT) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today announced the release of more than $19 million in additional support from the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) to help low income households with energy costs this winter. The release of these funds - combined with over $59 million since October 2011 - brings Connecticut’s total allocation for the 2012 fiscal year to nearly $80 million: “We are pleased to announce the release of additional support for this absolutely critical program. The speedy delivery of these necessary funds will help alleviate some of the financial strain many Connecticut families feel as they work to pay their heating bills during winter’s coldest months. In tough fiscal times, we have united as a delegation to fight back against the proposed draconian cuts to this program and these resources will go a long way toward preserving the health and well-being of households that include some of our most vulnerable citizens.” For a full breakdown of the funds released, click here.
01.18.2012	Transcript of Press Availability Before House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Xavier Becerra (CA-31) held a press avail before the Democratic Caucus meeting today on the need for Republicans in Congress to put aside partisan interests and address jobs and a full extension of unemployment insurance and the middle class payroll tax cut before Congress. You can watch the avail here. Below is the transcript: Larson: Good morning to everyone and welcome back. Happy new year and good cheer in general. We’ll be joined by the Vice Chair of the Caucus, who is also one of our conferees, and I’ll leave it to Mr. Becerra to discuss some of those concerns. But we come back after a long recess with what my constituents still believe is the dark abyss of uncertainty, or lack of jobs that they need vitally. And with the opportunity for the leadership of the Republican party to place on the Floor the President’s bill that will put this country back to work. Instead, what we read about is that instead of addressing the need to put America back to work, we’re going to be just further mired in political debate aimed directly at the President. That’s not how the country is supposed to work. It’s most unfortunate. I hope that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are ready as we are to roll up our sleeves and address the important issues that face this country. And the number one issue that continues to face this country is to put the nation back to work. We also understand that we have items left over from the last session, most notably dealing with the payroll tax , dealing with the extension of unemployment, and dealing with what we commonly call the doc fix – to make sure that we protect our seniors on Medicare. We have to put choices on the table, again, that I think are important to the American people, not the least of which – especially as we observe the debate in the Republican party and we learn astoundingly in the case of what many consider to be their ultimate presidential candidate – that he paid 15 percent in taxes. Secretaries, rank and file citizens all across this country pay far more. Is it fair to continue to protect the nation’s wealthiest one percent and have those amongst us, especially the middle class that are feeling the squeeze, have to bear the burden of two wars that are unpaid for, to pay for tax cuts to the wealthy – people in this country will have to suffer and continue to see programs cut so that the Mitt Romney’s can pay fifteen percent taxes? C’mon. There’s a better way to do this. There’s a fairer way to do this. And the American people understand that. This is a time of shared sacrifice. This is a time when we need to roll up our sleeves, put this nation back to work, do what the President has asked – extend this payroll so we put money – this payroll tax – so we put money back in the hands of people, make sure that doctors are going to see their seniors, and for those that are out struggling to get a job and through no fault of their own can’t find any, extend them the benefits so they can continue to pay their taxes, not see their mortgages go into foreclosure, and then have Congress roll up its sleeves and address the issues of the day. Put the President’s jobs bill on the Floor. Vote it up or down if you’re opposed to it or if you’ve got a better idea, bring it to the Floor, but extend the courtesy of a vote. That’s what the American people expect – not this political gamesmanship, where they’re going to continue to try to block everything that the President does. That’s just flat out wrong. I hope our colleagues will reconsider that as we go forward. I know that they – the Conference, will go on their retreat starting this afternoon. We wish them well. We wish them all the good luck in the world but we want them to come together in a way that they can work with us to put America back to work. With that, and I know that our Vice Chair will be here shortly, we’ll be happy to take any questions. Q: Can you address the rhetoric from the Republican side, when they’re saying, well the President is asking for this debt ceiling increase? We all know – people who really understand how this debt ceiling agreement is, how they’re trying to pin this on the President. And secondly, how will you vote on the resolution of disapproval today? Larson: Let me start with this being a manufactured crisis from the outset. And I think that anyone who has witnessed the events of this past summer where they took us to the precipice on an issue that Ronald Reagan did 18 times, that George Bush did 8 times in terms of addressing the nation fundamentally paying its debts. That’s what this issue is all about. And all this issue – the reason the Republicans are bringing this up is a face-saver for their hard line people, who make the wrong association between national debt and paying what you already owe. And so, that’s why we believe this is a fraudulent issue, a totally manufactured issue with respect to the debt ceiling. And do we really want to go through another process where after we vote we watch the stock markets tumble all around the world? Are we going to do the right thing this time or will we see a repeat of what we’ve seen all throughout last year, where the Republicans bring us to the precipice of either shutting down the government or causing chaos, only ultimately to relent, but not until the damage has been done to the economy and what they see, and what they hope, is damage done to the President. That seems to be their agenda – to see what damage they can inflict on the President, not what good they can do for the American people. Q: And how will you vote – the other part of my question, and for that matter also, Mr. Becerra, on the resolution of disapproval? Larson: On the resolution of disapproval, I’ll be voting with the Democratic party on that. Q: And how is that? Larson: Look, we think that this is a manufactured crisis. We think, and we support the President and the country’s obligation to pays its debt. Q: Given that we’re now in an election year again, how productive do you think this Congress can actually be compared to last year, which as you’ve said, there was a lot of moving from crisis to crisis. Larson: We’ll we’re disheartened by what we read in the papers to say that this is going to be, you know, just a focus on aiming at the President and creating political opportunities to go after him when there is ample opportunity. I have to believe that when Republicans went home, they hear the same thing we do. I have to believe that they have town hall meetings and that they hear from their constituents – that they understand the need to put America back to work. And so I would hope that they would minimally – minimally put the President – he’s laid out an agenda. Put his – give the opportunity to have his jobs bill have a vote. That’s not a big request. That’s not a big ask. If you’ve got the votes and you disagree with it, vote against it. But for God’s sake, at least give the American people and give the President the courtesy of a vote. Q: Question for both of you… Larson: Let me – go ahead, ask the question and I’ll allow the Vice Chairman an opportunity to… Becerra: I agree. I agree. (Laughter) Q: Do you think that the payroll tax package should be paid for in its entirety? And I ask because Leader Pelosi yesterday said in no uncertain terms that the UI portion of that and the payroll tax extension should not be paid for because they would harm the stimulative affect of… Larson: Well I’ll let one of the conferees, who understands this issue better than most, respond. Becerra: Mr. Chairman thank you very much. We’ve always treated emergency unemployment benefits just as it applies: as an emergency. Just as we wouldn’t expect a state suffering from a natural disaster requesting emergency funds to have to pay us in order to get the support of Americans throughout the country, I don’t believe that most Americans think that Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own and are therefore seeking a handout through unemployment benefits should have to find that other Americans will suffer the consequence by having to pay that. The reality is that Republicans have taken both sides of this issue. They pay for some things. They don’t want to pay for others. They never paid for the Bush tax cuts yet they say that we must pay for the tax cuts that go to middle income Americans. So there’s a great discord in terms of what they say they want unless they’re saying only tax cuts for the wealthy don’t have to be paid for and tax cuts for the middle income do. So we’re trying to figure out why it is that they’re pressing so hard for something that’s so important to Americans, especially those who have lost their job through no fault of their own. We’d have to suffer the consequences as a result. So we will see what happens. I think the leader has spoken well for Democrats. Larson: And it continues to gnaw away, certainly at our Caucus and certainly with my constituents: why it is that those who pay fifteen percent that that is so sacrosanct that the wealthy cannot pay more? But we will ask secretaries, we will ask senior citizens to pay more for Medicare or to give up benefits? C’mon. We’ve got to start getting real about the choices that are out here for people. And the people that are suffering the most during this difficult recession have been the middle class. The squeeze that they’re feeling the most and the relief is very obvious. For fellow Americans, who are living quite comfortably, not to partake in sharing the burden of two wars, an expansive tax cut is flat out immoral. And what we need to do is make sure that remains on the table and let the American people see the clear choice that exists. We continue to try and compromise, but compromising in light of these facts. – and when you hear this, I have to be honest, when you hear this yesterday: Mitt Romney saying, yeah, I paid 15 percent in terms of taxes and I only earned a little bit of money last year. I earned just a paltry amount of money from book sales – $385,000. You know, the disconnect between what’s happening to average American citizens and the race that’s going on for the Presidency of the United States. And why, constituents will always ask me, why are they so dug in on this issue? Why are they dug in on protecting those who only pay fifteen percent in terms of their taxes? It is extraordinarily troubling and disheartening, especially when we know we have a jobs bill that could be taken up, payroll taxes that should be extended, doctors that need to be paid so that they’ll be able to see their patients and, as the Vice Chair pointed out, an unemployment extension for people that are out seeking jobs already, as well. Q: Does that mean that you want to pay for the extension for the middle class tax cuts by hiking taxes on the wealthy or does that mean you just want to not pay for either, as the Republicans haven’t paid for the… Larson: I would prefer, and speaking for myself, I would prefer, and I think the Democrats have long stated that we would prefer to see the taxes paid for, but paid for by making sure we go back to the Clinton rate when people were doing extraordinarily well and have people pay their fair share. But I know, and the Vice Chair has articulated this, we look at unemployment as an emergency. When in our history have we had to pay for unemployment before? This is a crisis. This is an emergency. The worst recession since the Great Depression. Albeit, our people have been at the table willing to work together to make sure that we extend the payroll tax cut, that they get the benefits. Becerra: If I could just add – this is an issue of being responsible in governing. Now, you also have to be consistent in how you govern. If it’s an emergency and you recognize that the urgent nature of the funding means that you do it now for Americans who are hurting, then it’s an emergency and you do whatever you can as Americans pull together to help out your fellow Americans. That’s the case of the unemployment benefits for those who have lost their job through no fault of their own. When it comes to the middle class tax cut, there are ways to do this responsibly. You can treat this, if you want to be consistent, the way Republicans have treated other tax cuts, where they have never paid for tax cuts; or, you could decide that they are ways to responsibly pay for anything, including a middle class tax cut. There are ways to do this without harming the middle of America and we have proposed – Democrats have proposed ways to pay for the middle class tax cut in ways that are responsible, that are supported by the vast majority of the American public, and which would not undermine the recovery of our economy. If Republicans choose not to join with us, then it’s simply a signal that 2012 is picking up exactly where 2011 left off. We hope that’s not the case, because the American people sent a very strong signal at the end of 2011 when Republicans were trying to block the middle class tax cut that the American public get it. They are watching and we should try and do some pragmatic, practical things that the public all agrees we should do. Once again, the people way ahead of the politicians when it comes to moving the country forward. Larson: Thank you. # # #
01.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement today upon news of the passing of legendary WTNH Weatherman Dr. Mel Goldstein: “For decades Connecticut residents turned to Dr. Mel Goldstein for not only information on the weather, but to make them smile and laugh. His vibrant personality and incredible knowledge of meteorology made him a larger-than-life figure throughout the state. I am deeply saddened to hear of his passing and I offer my deepest condolences to his entire family during this time.” ###
01.11.2012	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today following a groundbreaking ceremony hosted by Goodwin College for the magnate, Connecticut River Academy. Last May Congressman Larson announced the approval of a $1.15 million federal Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant to fund reconstruction of Riverside Drive – which will connect the school to the rest of the community. Due to personal obligations the Congressman was unable to attend the ceremony. “I want to extend my deepest congratulations to Mark Scheinberg and the entire Goodwin College family on their historic day,” Congressman Larson said. “With the construction of the Connecticut River Academy, a new generation of students will have an opportunity to learn the skills needed to succeed in the future, while also providing the desperately needed construction jobs today. This project, combined with the reconstruction of Riverside Drive, will create a new, beautiful and functional area within East Hartford where once there was only a Brownfield.” ###
01.06.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the December jobs numbers: “Today’s economic news, while certainly welcome and encouraging, further underscores the need for Congress to do more to help the 14 million Americans who are out of work. “Just this week I met with the Iron Workers and the Greater Hartford Building Trades Council at a school in my District in desperate need of repair, at a time when over 40 percent of the building tradesmen in greater Hartford have been unemployed for two years. It’s clear, there is a great opportunity here. We know we need to have a first rate education system and to see our schools upgraded, in a way that many of them haven’t been in years. And we know if we invest in our schools and our infrastructure, at the same time we’ll be putting those very people back to work. It’s a win-win for our economy and our future. “Congress must build on the momentum that the job market has seen in the last few months and act on what Americans have consistently said is their number one priority: job creation. We must work to rebuild the middle class, and reignite the American Dream for millions of Americans who have been left behind. “2012 has arrived and, as the President has said, America cannot wait another 12 months for action on jobs.” # # #
01.06.2012	WASHINGTON – Last week, the New York Times highlighted a rare, mysterious neurological disorder called Prosopagnosia – otherwise known as face blindness. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) thinks that the Times story may have stumbled on the reason Congressional Republicans have been so blind to the needs of middle-class and unemployed Americans: > > Watch the Clip < < Full Transcript: “This Caucus has reiterated a mantra throughout, which is that job creation equals deficit reduction. “And we’re here today with our sleeves rolled up prepared to work, as our Members have during this break, and will continue to do so, because we know that our task is to rebuild the middle class. “We know that we have to reignite the American Dream, and we know how to do that. We know how to do that by investing in our infrastructure and by making things here in America, again. “In my district just yesterday I met with the Greater Hartford Building Trades Council. We were at a school building. And at that school building we see what Americans face: the need to be able to compete in a global economy by having the best educated students and workforce in the world, and also the need to put people back to work. One school built in 1922 – in desperate need of repair – and more than 40 percent of the building trades unemployed in greater Hartford for the last two years. “There is a great opportunity here. All we have to do is seize on the President's plan and put this country back to work. Some have said that our colleagues are just pure obstructionists – that they want to see this economy continue at a slow pace so that it will impact the rates of the President of the United States. “It's a new year. We're going to give our colleagues the benefit of the doubt. That's why we're here with our sleeves rolled up and prepared to work. “It has been suggested to me and confirmed by The New York Times, just last week in the Science section, that what may in fact be impacting our colleagues on the other side of the aisle is that they have prosopagnosia. Now that, for you out there in the audience, means this: it's a blindness that they have. It's a blindness that also works in a way that you don't recognize people's voices. How else can you not hear the plea of 14 million Americans that are out of work, who need to be put back to work? “We're here, prepared to work, ready to go to reignite the American Dream, make things in America, and continue to have the greatest country on the face of the Earth.” # # #
01.06.2012	(Hartford, CT) – Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) today announced that Pratt & Whitney has secured a $194 million contract from the U.S. Navy related to the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) engine. The funding will be used for the advance acquisition of long lead components, parts, and materials required for the delivery of 37 propulsion systems. “At a time when every defense dollar counts, this award makes a powerful statement that Connecticut workers can get the job done on this fighter better than anyone, excelling in quality and cost,” said Senator Blumenthal. “We must be determined to continue battling for an air fighter vital to our national security. This major award shows a continuing commitment to the F-35 program and Connecticut’s dedicated and globally-competitive workforce.” "This contract - and the commitment it represents to continue the F-35 program - is great news for our community and our entire country," Congressman Larson said. "This jet, powered by F135 engines made right here in East Hartford, will continue to employ the most highly-skilled aerospace workforce in the industry and ensure that the United States has the most formidable military in the world." “This award demonstrates that the work being done in Connecticut for the JSF program is meeting and exceeding the Navy’s goals and criteria,” said Congressman Courtney. “At a time when every contractor must demonstrate its value, Pratt’s designation for this contract shows that the workforce is succeeding.” ###
01.05.2012	(Hartford, CT) - Today, the Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced over $51 million dollars in disaster relief funds for the Connecticut Department of Transportation in the wake of both Hurricane Irene and the October snowstorm. Two separate grants were awarded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Emergency Relief Program and will go toward repair and reconstruction of roads that were damaged as a result of the storms. “These resources will go a long way to restore and rebuild Connecticut after two devastating storms in a row,” said the delegation. “The funding will provide the resources needed to repair our damaged roads, highways, and infrastructure so Connecticut residents can travel safely.” ###
01.05.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the strategic review released by the Department of Defense today: “As the Secretary of Defense said today, we face a “complex and growing array of security challenges” that must be met. So I’m glad to see that the Department of Defense recognizes the need to make smart, strategic overall cuts and shrink the footprint of our expansive military presence around the world while ensuring that we continue to meet our commitments and working to maintain our innovative technological industrial base that is so critical to our national security. “I was especially heartened to hear the Deputy Secretary for Acquisitions say the Defense Department wants the F-35 program and they want it to succeed. It is programs like that, with collaborative effort from all of the services and the best our industry can produce, that when combined with the great strength of our men and women in uniform will keep America strong for years to come.” # # #
01.04.2012	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on President Obama’s appointment of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: “President Obama made the right choice in appointing Richard Cordray to head the CFPB over Republican objections today. American families and our economy finally have a tough watchdog in place looking out for our best interests just as we intended with Wall Street Reform. “For six months now, Republicans in Congress have prevented Richard from taking his post not because of any objections they have over his qualifications but because they object to the very idea of putting a cop back on the beat to watch over Wall Street. Since Wall Street Reform was enacted, they have done everything in their power to allow Wall Street to continue to play Russian roulette with America’s future by continuing the unscrupulous practices that got us into this mess in the first place. As the President said today, ‘now is the time to do everything we can to protect consumers and prevent a financial crisis like the one we’ve been through from ever happening again.’ And getting Richard to work is a great step in that direction.” # # #
01.04.2012	Rocky Hill, Conn. – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) delivered opening remarks during the first Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Event in Rocky Hill. Stressing the importance of manufacturing to the state’s economy, Larson praised the joint effort between federal and state offices and local non-profits in making the job match a reality. “Government is at its best when it’s working side-by-side with the private sector and non-profits to help break down barriers and create jobs,” Congressman Larson said. “The Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative will help qualified individuals connect with businesses who are looking to hire workers with a specific skill set. At the end of the day, manufacturing is part of our state’s DNA – it’s who we are – and this event is just the beginning of a long-term approach to strengthening this critical sector of our economy.” Today’s event allowed job-seekers designated as “Track One” candidates - those who have already posses the certifications and skills desired by prospective employers - an opportunity to interview with local manufacturers who are hiring. With a handful of jobs filled through the job match program before the event even took place, over twenty manufacturers participated in the event today interviewing candidates that they knew had the skills they were looking for. The Connecticut Manufacturing Job Match Initiative was launched last November when Congressman Larson, in conjunction with the State Department of Labor, The Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), the Connecticut Board of Regents for Higher Education and Capital Workforce Partners, began the process of asking local manufacturers with job openings to register for the program that will help match them with job-seekers who possess the skills they need. While today’s event focused primarily on matching “Track One” candidates, the program also helps individuals with limited or minimal credentials or manufacturing experience gain the skills they need to compete for future jobs with local manufacturers. ###
12.29.2011	WINDSOR, CONN. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) praised Walgreens for their commitment to hiring men and women with disabilities during a walkthrough of their Windsor distribution center today. The Congressman was joined by Windsor Mayor Don Trinks as well as Walgreens national and local leadership in touring the local distribution center this afternoon. “In even the best of times, disabled Americans have extra challenges they have to overcome to find good jobs. So I’m very happy to see that, in this economy where so many are struggling, Walgreens has gone above and beyond to make sure that the disabled have just as fair an opportunity to work as the rest of our community,” Congressman Larson said. “Walgreens goal to include disabled Americans in its workforce is admirable and should serve as an example for businesses all over the country.” Walgreens recently set a national goal of making at least 10 percent of its workforce disabled Americans. The Windsor distribution facility has already far exceeded that goal, with 40 percent of the staff being disabled.
12.28.2011	HARTFORD – This morning Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) called for a new, fair agreement for the 2,000-plus building cleaners represented by local 32BJ of the Service Employees International union of the greater Hartford and New Haven areas. With the last day of scheduled talks between the workers and the Hartford Area Cleaning Contractors Association scheduled for today, Congressman Larson urged both sides come to an agreement before the current contract expires on December 31. “The thousands of members of local 32BJ provide an invaluable service to so many residents throughout the Capital Region,” Congressman Larson said. “These men and women deserve a new contract that will ensure that all of their members are paid a fair wage and have competitive healthcare benefits. I strongly urge both sides come to an agreement as a work stoppage, regardless of how long, would be extremely disruptive to our state’s economy, which is still undergoing a fragile recovery.” ###
12.20.2011	GOP Needs to Stop Obstruction, Pass Bipartisan Bill WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today called on House Republicans to return to work immediately after the holidays to pass the bipartisan Senate bill that will prevent a tax increase on 160 million Americans on New Year’s Day: “Three quarters of Congress agree; we must give certainty to American families that on January 1st they will not see their taxes go up, they will not lose unemployment assistance, and they will not lose access to their doctors. Unfortunately, House Republicans are doing what they have done all year: obstructing the will of the American public. “President Obama was right to prevail on House Republicans to put politics aside and work with the rest of us in Congress to help the American people avoid the dark abyss of uncertainty by assuring them that tax relief, their doctors, and unemployment insurance will be there for them come the new year. We can only hope that as we celebrate the holidays the radical House Republicans will take a breath, come to their senses and join with Senate Republicans and House and Senate Democrats in doing what is in the best interest of the American people. “This shouldn’t be a partisan issue. Senate Republicans and House and Senate Democrats have shown that we can work together to find solutions. I hope House Republicans will return to work on December 26th ready to pass the bipartisan Senate compromise to allow Congress the time we need to reach a long term solution for these issues.” # # #
12.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the Japanese government’s decision to purchase 42 F-35 Lightning II aircrafts. The deal for the jets, built by Lockheed Martin and powered by East Hartford’s Pratt & Whitney F135 engine, was officially announced late last night. “The announcement that Japan will purchase 42 F-35 aircraft reconfirms the international community’s support for this critical program, which will play a vital role in the defense of the United States and our allies for decades to come,” Congressman Larson said. “The F135 engines that power this plane, and are built by our very own men and women at Pratt & Whitney, have been proven time and again to be successful and in a class of their own. This agreement is great news for our community and is yet another way we are working to 'keep the eagle flying' in East Hartford.” Japan’s decision to purchase the F-35 comes after multiple meetings between Congressman Larson and the Japanese Ambassador to the United States, Ichiro Fujisaki, to discuss the role that U.S. aerospace technology can play in the modernization of Japan’s military. ###
12.16.2011	(December 16, 2011) --- The State Bond Commission’s approval of $5 million for the Coltsville project is another positive step toward the site’s National Park designation, Mayor Pedro E. Segarra said. “I am thrilled at the continued momentum toward achieving this objective, which reinforces our housing revitalization efforts in the area, not to mention the iQuilt partnership and our heightened focus on enhancing and promoting Hartford’s cultural assets,” Mayor Segarra said. “This collaborative investment is another step forward in our efforts to revitalize and increase vibrancy in Connecticut’s Capital City.” Mayor Segarra also expressed his gratitude to Connecticut’s Congressional delegation – Sens. Joseph Lieberman and Richard Blumenthal, and Cong. John Larson – for their leadership in moving the project forward through H.R. 2504, the Coltsville National Historic Park Act. “As we continue to advocate for legislation to create Coltsville National Historical Park, this commitment by the state government underscores the fact that support for Coltsville can be found all across Hartford and the entire state. I will continue to work with my colleagues in Washington, and Governor Malloy and Mayor Segarra, to advance this truly historic project," said Senator Lieberman. The $5 million will come in the form of supplemental funding for the municipal open space grant-in-aid program, and will ensure that land acquired with the bond monies remain in open space and be accessible to the public. The funding was approved overwhelmingly at a special meeting of the Bond Commission this morning. “This $5 million commitment by the state underscores the broad base of support that Coltsville enjoys between all levels of government, our non-profit partners and the private sector,” Congressman John Larson said. “This project has been 10 years in the making but we are closer today than we ever have been in the past to seeing Coltsville become a National Historic Park. I want to thank Governor Malloy for his consistent leadership on this issue – the support of the Governor has been critical to this project.” Earlier this month, Congressman Larson and Mayor Segarra testified in front of the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands in Washington on behalf of the Coltsville Historic District’s bid to become a National Historic Park. In September, the pair welcomed Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to Hartford to tour the Coltsville facility. ###
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the omnibus appropriations bill that will fund the federal government through FY 2012. “This bill, while far from perfect, is a product of compromise and is a dramatic improvement over what was initially proposed by House Republicans. I want to congratulate Appropriations Chairman Hal Rogers and Ranking Member Norm Dicks on being able to reach a compromise. “Gone from this bill are provisions that would have gutted last year’s landmark Wall Street Reform legislation as well as rules that would have halted the implementation of critical provisions of the Affordable Care Act. Instead this bill offers increased funding for measures critical to Connecticut such as job training, employment programs and disaster relief. Additionally, the bill provides funding for the F35 Joint Strike Fighter project, which is poised to deliver significant manufacturing jobs to the state. “With this vote behind us, it's time for Congress to finally focus on the number one issue facing our country: job creation. "As we enter 2012, I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress, as well as President Obama, to pass a jobs agenda and middle class tax relief that will help get the nation back to work.” ###
12.16.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the renewal of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program today, calling it “Critical assistance for Connecticut’s small businesses.” The program renewal was included in the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that Congress approved this week. “Small businesses are the cornerstone of our economy,” Congressman Larson said. “At a time when our economy is still recovering from the worst downturn since the Great Depression, Government needs to ensure that it is creating an environment for small businesses to succeed. And that's exactly what the SBIR program helps do. ” The SBIR program was created along with the Small Business Technology Transfer (SBTT) program in 1982 and expired at the end of fiscal year 2008. Since its expiration, Congress has passed a series of short-term extensions of the program. Under the NDAA, SBIR can now operate until September 30, 2017. Since its creation, SBIR has provided $21 Billion in funding to over 15,000 small businesses in Connecticut and around the country for research and development, which has resulted in 50,000 patents. The grants have helped create breakthroughs in national defense, environmental protection, healthcare and data management. ###
12.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement today on the official end of the war in Iraq. “For nearly a decade our brave men and women in uniform have served with honor in Iraq, putting their lives on the line every day. Ever since the initial invasion our warriors have worked tirelessly to stabilize the country, root out elements of terrorism and create an opportunity for Democracy to take hold. Today we proudly join together as a nation in saying to those that have returned and the thousands preparing to leave, ‘Thank you and Welcome Home!’ “While we recognize the bravery and heroism of our servicemen and women, it's also important for us to take a moment to acknowledge the sacrifices made by the families of these soldiers, as well as pause to remember the 4,484 service members who have not returned. Those men and women made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation and we must never forget. “Here in the First Congressional District we lost seven of our finest in Iraq: Captain Eric Paliwoda, Lance Corporal Larry Philippon and Captain Brian Lentendre of West Hartford, Sergeant Felix DelGrecco of Hartford, Sergeant David Coullard of Glastonbury, Sergeant Richard Ford of East Hartford and Sergeant Edward Kramer of Southington. As always, our thoughts and prayers are with their families. “I want to also thank President Obama for staying true to his word and bringing this war to a close. For too long, our nation was engaged in a conflict of our own creation. History will be the judge of this conflict, but ultimately I believe the doctrine of preemption and unilateralism cost this nation dearly. “Whatever the judgment of history, there can be no doubt that our brave men and women in uniform served our nation well. And thanks to the exceptional service of so many veterans of Iraq and Desert Storm, the nation, no matter how it felt about the war, was always able to distinguish between the war and the warriors. “Thank you all. A grateful nation is happy to have you home and we will never forget your commitment and service.” ###
12.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after tonight’s vote on the GOP tax bill, calling on Republicans to end the political theater and instead focus on creating jobs and protecting the middle class. “With 13 million Americans out of work and 25 million Americans underemployed, the theater of the absurd continues in Washington, D.C. It is thoroughly frustrating to me, and I know thoroughly frustrating to the American people, that Washington cannot respond to the needs of putting families back to work. “Rather than pass a payroll tax bill today that would have put money back in the pockets of millions of Americans and protect those who are looking for work, House Republicans brought forward a bill that they know cannot become law because it is loaded with poison pill amendments that are designed to fail in the Senate. Even a Republican senator has said it cannot pass. “Making matters worse, the Republican bill increases the burden for American seniors and middle class families, without asking the wealthiest to contribute one additional cent. “This is exactly why Americans are so frustrated with their government. “As the gamesmanship continues here in Washington, D.C. people are asking for responsible action. “We need action that will translate into savings for the American people and help stimulate this economy. We need a clean vote on the payroll tax bill. Most of all, we need jobs for the American people.”
12.06.2011	WASHINGTON -- This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) urged senior citizens and eligible residents to take advantage of the Medicare open-enrollment period before it closes tomorrow night at midnight. “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, Medicare beneficiaries throughout Connecticut have increased access to preventive care visits and are paying less for prescription drugs,” Congressman Larson said. “Since the beginning of this open-enrollment period many beneficiaries have taken advantage of the opportunity to review their options and I urge those who have not yet explored their options to do so before the period closes.” During the open-enrollment period Medicare beneficiaries will be able to search through plans for the 2012 year, with the highest rated plans clearly identified by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) with a gold star. As of the end of October, CMS estimated that 2.65 million Americans had saved more than $1.5 billion on prescription drugs thanks to the Affordable Care Act, – an average of $569 per beneficiary. Additionally, CMS has estimated that as of the end of last month, 24.2 million Americans with original Medicare had taken advantage of another Affordable Care Act provision that allows beneficiaries to access free preventive care visits. To search for a Medicare plan, beneficiaries should visit www.medicare.gov/find-a-plan. Additional resources that may be helpful are listed below. www.Medicare.gov – Offers information on various plans and enrollment steps as well as various other frequently asked questions about the program. 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-2477) – A toll-free number to call to get information on Medicare. https://www.medicare.gov/publications/pubs/pdf/10050.pdf - A downloadable copy of the 2012 Medicare handbook. ###
12.06.2011	Encourage Public to Attend Hearing Tonight at Chapelle Gardens Community Center HARTFORD – Tonight representatives from the offices of Senator Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will participate in a public forum on the future of the Unity Plaza post office in the North End of Hartford. Recently the United States Postal Service announced a formal review of Unity Plaza and the future of the facility is in doubt. Since that announcement, the lawmakers have written a formal letter to United States Postmaster Judith Martin urging support for the facility calling it’s presence an “anchor” for local businesses. The forum is scheduled for 6 p.m. tonight at the Chapelle Gardens Community Center on Garden Street. It is open to the public and everyone is encouraged to attend. WHAT: Public Forum on the Future of the Unity Plaza Post Office WHEN: Tuesday, December 6, 2011 – 6 p.m. WHERE: Chapelle Gardens Community Center 870 Garden Street Hartford, CT 06112 ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON -- Earlier today Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra testified in front of the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands on behalf of the Coltsville Historic District’s bid to become a National Historic Park. H.R. 2504, the Coltsville National Historic Park Act, was one of 13 bills heard by the committee today. Last September Congressman Larson and Mayor Segarra welcomed Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to Hartford as the Secretary and the lawmakers toured the Coltsville facility. During that visit, the Secretary threw his support behind the project. Last October during a hearing of the Senate Energy and Natural Resource Committee’s Subcommittee on National Parks , Acting Associate Director for Park Planning, Facilities, and Lands, National Park Service, Dept. of the Inrerior William D. Shaddox reiterated Secretary Salazar’s support. Below are the remarks of both Congressman Larson and Mayor Segarra as prepared for delivery. Congressman Larson: Thank you, Chairman Bishop, Ranking Member Grijalva and members of the Committee for holding this important hearing. Before I begin I would like to take a moment to recognize the Mayor of the City of Hartford, Connecticut, Pedro Segarra, who is here today to testify as a witness in support of Coltsville being established as a National Historic Park which highlights the local, state, federal and private partnership that Coltsville presently enjoys and which is critical for its overall success. Mayor Segarra will outline the importance of Coltsville to the local community in Hartford and share the results of a recently commissioned economic analysis done on Coltsville and its potential to create jobs and increase economic activity in Hartford. This report strongly supports the Department of Interior’s findings that every dollar spent by the federal government on National Parks creates four dollars of economic value into the local economy. I also would like to recognize Peggy O’Dell, deputy director for operations of the National Park Service who will be speaking in support of the Coltsville National Historic Park Act. This year Secretary Ken Salazar of the Department of Interior and Don Hellman, legislative director for the National Park Service made separate trips up to see Coltsville first hand. On September 24th after touring Coltsville Secretary Salazar remarked to the press, our Governor, Mayor Segarra and the Congressional delegation that Coltsville, “is a great candidate for inclusion into the National Park System,” and that he “will work hard to make it happen even in these fiscally challenging times.” As the birth place of the Industrial Revolution, Coltsville is an endowment of American history that must be preserved. As a National Historic Park, Coltsville would tell the story of the Colt family and one of the most iconic precision manufacturing companies in American history. America knows the story of the Colt revolver that won the west which will be told in an exquisite vibrancy through extensive collections presently house in the basement of the Connecticut state library. But perhaps it’s the story of Sam and Elizabeth Colt and Coltsville that America does not know that is the most persuasive reason for establishing a National Park at Coltsville. It is the story of the innovative formation of the first US company to export its products overseas and produce the firearms that have been used in every US conflict since the Civil War. It is the story of how Henry Ford and Pratt and Whitney came to Coltsville in order to study the unique manufacturing process and work/life community established by the Colt family. It is also the story of how a woman, Samuel Colt’s widow, Elizabeth, managed one of the nation’s most profitable and important industries for 40 years, after the death of her husband, at a time when she could not even vote. I have been working on establishing Coltsville as a National Park diligently for the past 12 years and an extensive amount of due diligence has been done by the Park Service, the State of Connecticut, the City of Hartford, the National Trust for Historic Preservation and this Committee along the way. In 2003, President Bush signed the Coltsville Resource Study Act, which got the ball rolling. Afterwards Coltsville needed to be established as a National Historic Landmark, which was completed by then Secretary Dirk Kempthorne in September of 2007. After the completion of a visitor experience study commissioned by the State of Connecticut in 2008 and the National Park Service Resource Study in 2009 we began pursuing responsible legislation in our challenging fiscal times that mirrored the newly added Patterson, New Jersey, National Historic Park. The Patterson model of creating a pathway for National Park Status with the Park Service and Secretary holding the power to give final approval gives the Park Service the insurance and protections it needs to make Coltsville into a successful member of the Park Service portfolio without overburdening its budget. What we are working on isn't an enormous park as one might see out West, but it is equally as grand and equally as important. By the National Park Service creating a visitor center in 10,000 square feet in Coltsville’s East Armory, modeled after the community Visitor experience study referenced in the Special Resource Study, the history of Colt would be preserved. The initial concept is to have the extensive Colt collections of firearms housed in the basement of the Connecticut State Library and the art collections of Elizabeth Colt reflecting different points in Coltsville’s history presently held by the Wadsworth Atheneum on display on a rotating basis. In addition, the main visitor experience attraction would be an interactive elevator ride from the first floor to the dome that sits on top of the East Armory with each floor depicting a different era and historic moment in Coltsville’s history. In conjunction with this visitor center Colt Manufacturing has expressed significant interest in bring the manufacturing and engraving of its collection firearms back to the East Armory which would add to the overall visitor experience at no expense to the Park Service. The rest of Coltsville’s historic properties: the Church of the Good Shepheard at the home of Sam and Elizabeth Colt will be maintained by the present ownership and interpreted externally and internally through agreements made with the National Park Service. Every year since I can remember Connecticut has sent more money to Washington to fund the US Government then it has received in return with one of the lowest return rates of all 50 states. In 2010 Connecticut taxpayers sent just under $44 billion to Washington and received $31.1 billion in return, about 70 cents on the dollar. This being said Connecticut has one unit in the Park Service portfolio, a small Historic site called Weir Farm in Southern Connecticut which requires minimal park service support. In Connecticut we don’t ask for much from the federal government but the state and the City of Hartford need the expertise, recognition and validation that the Park Service brings in order to appropriately preserve one of the National most historic areas in Coltsville. Mayor Segarra: Chairman Bishop, Ranking Minority Member Grijalva, and Distinguished Members of the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands: On behalf of the City of Hartford, which recently celebrated its 375th Anniversary, I appear before you today in support of H.R. 2504, the designation of the Coltsville Historic District as a National Park. I want to thank Congressman John Larson and Senators Lieberman and Blumenthal for their tireless support of this critical and important initiative. This effort, which also has the broad support of the City’s business community, institutions, and organizations, is critical to the revitalization of Connecticut’s Capital City, and will become a centerpiece of the City’s effort to increase its focus on heritage tourism. It will also stand as model for future innovation. The Colt Manufacturing facility, and surrounding structures, played a critical – if not essential – role in our national defense, defining the direction of the United States during a time of great exploration and innovation. It not only changed the face of national and international business and commerce, but also enhanced and further promoted the spirit of American business ingenuity, and its role in local community. It is symbolic that we are now again presented with a monumental decision that, if approved, will help to shape and encourage an ongoing renaissance in the City of Hartford and further promote the historic and necessary investment that Governor Dannel Malloy has made to restore funding designed to promote Connecticut’s culture and tourism destinations. The City of Hartford, State of Connecticut, and the collaborative of associated public and private entities, is deeply invested in the Coltsville neighborhood. The City has already rebuilt two schools and improved housing stock in the immediate area, and has committed almost $3 million dollars in matching funds to improve surrounding streets in ways that will redefine space, improve visuals, increase safety and enhance the overall vibrancy of the area. We also stand ready to assist with other elements as greater scope and definition are added to the revitalization of one of America’s first, and arguably most preeminent, industrial zones. A commitment has also been made by local businesses, property owners, and managers, such as the Colt Gateway, Riverfront Recapture and the Capitol Region Education Council, to preserve, maintain and manage their properties in accordance with the National Park Service and Historic Preservation Guide. A National Park at Coltsville will only require the Park Service to manage the 10,000 square feet designated in the East Armory. All other areas will be interpreted externally or an agreement with the National Parks Service will be established during the evaluation period outlined in the legislation. It is important to briefly recognize the number of jobs this effort will create and the overall impact to the economy. Not only will the trades benefit through an intense construction effort, but long term job growth for the region across the entire job spectrum; not only in direct benefits to the leisure and hospitality sector, but also those critical indirect and secondary job markets that will be added and supported as well. With an intense focus and commitment in these areas, the region has already seen over 1,000 new jobs created and the infusion of $175M into the regional economy. This designation, critical to the further restoration of Colt Manufacturing, has been independently estimated to generate an additional $150M for the regional economy and create 1,000 additional jobs over the next five years. If no further development occurs, it will only yield $30M and 229 jobs. I thank you for your time and consideration and do hope that you will move this resolution forward, not only because this recognition is long past due, but because of the many positive outcomes that will no doubt result from Coltsville being designated as a National Park.
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) released the following statement today on General Electric’s decision to terminate their self-funded, F136 Alternate Engine for the F35 Joint Strike Fighter. “General Electric is a tremendous American company who has provided us with unique innovation for over a hundred years. As difficult a decision as this was, in these pressing economic times, GE made the right one. “The F135 engine manufactured by Pratt & Whitney is a successful engine and we forward to seeing the completion of this project and watching the F-35 in action for years to come. “We also look forward to continuing to work with General Electric, who produces the lion’s share of engines for our nation’s military aircrafts.” ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the November jobs numbers announced today: “Today’s unemployment numbers, while encouraging, simply underscore the urgency for Congress to address the top issue facing American families - jobs. “At a time when 13 million Americans are out of work, Congress missed a tremendous opportunity to take up job creation last month when the Super Committee failed to reach an agreement. However, Congress can still act to address jobs. From extending the payroll tax break for middle-class families to getting to work on rebuilding our roads and bridges, there are dozens of job creation proposals that should have broad, bipartisan support. “It's time to stop the partisan fighting and get to work for all Americans.” ###
12.02.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after House Republicans voted to eliminate the Presidential Election Campaign Fund and the Election Assistance Commission: “At this moment when we are in the middle of a national debate about whether our government will work for all Americans, or just the wealthiest few, House Republicans voted today to make it easier for big money and special interests to maintain an outsized influence. “Their vote not only creates a system that favors wealthy, self-financing candidates but also strips out safeguards that were created to ensure fair voting access for all Americans. “On the heels of the Supreme Court's decision that corporations are people too, lawmakers should be working hard to decrease the amount of money in politics, not ripping away the few protections that are left. "That's why I introduced the Fair Elections Now Act, which will force candidates to focus on gathering support from average Americans instead of spending their days dialing for dollars. That's the kind of common sense reform we should be focused on to restore public confidence in our government." ###
11.30.2011	Five First District Manufacturers to Participate in December Trip HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and U.S. Department of Commerce International Trade Administration District Director Anne Evans announced today that next week eight local Connecticut Aerospace manufacturers will travel to Montreal to participate in an international trade mission. From December 5-8, the local businesses will participate in an Aerospace Innovation Conference, a full day of pre-scheduled one-on-one business appointments with Canadian Manufacturers and representatives, attend a networking reception at the US Consul General’s residence, take a plant tour of Bombardier Aerospace in Montreal and receive counseling by the US Commercial Service Montreal aerospace specialist. “At a time when even local businesses must compete globally, international trade missions like next month’s in Montreal are an invaluable asset,” Congressman Larson said. “This mission helps our local manufacturers gain an opening into new markets and take home skills and best practices that they may previously have not considered.” “This mission and all of our export related services are focused on creating new jobs and sustaining jobs here in Connecticut,” Evans said. “We expect the eight companies participating in this mission will develop new business or increase their sales in Canada.” This trade mission is part of an ongoing effort in the First Congressional District to help Connecticut manufactures maintain and build upon their competitive advantage. Last week Congressman Larson hosted an informational breakfast for manufacturers to explain the recently announced CT Job Match initiative. The First Congressional District businesses that will be participating include: AdChem Manufacturing Technologies in Manchester Aerodyne Alloys in South Windsor Kaman Helicopters and Kaman Aerostructures in Bloomfield Colonial Spring Company in Bristol Lee Spring Company in Bristol Other participating businesses include: Alpha Q Inc in Colchester Jonal Labs in Meriden Ulbrich Stainless Steels and Special Metals in North Haven Canada is currently home to the fifth largest aerospace manufacturing economy in the world. ###
11.29.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the announcement by Congressman Barney Frank (MA-04) that he will not run for reelection next year: “When you think about the contribution of Barney Frank, imagine Oscar Wilde and Clarence Darrow rolled up in a magnificent legislator endowed with quick wit and humor, and razor sharp intellect. What an enormous loss for Congress and the country. “As both a friend and a colleague, I wish him and his family nothing but the best as they move on to new endeavors.” # # #
11.29.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today following the Senate’s unanimous confirmation of West Hartford’s Christopher F. Droney as a member of the United States Court of Appeals, Second Circuit. Last January Congressman Larson wrote a letter of support to the White House on behalf of Droney’s nomination. “For 14 years Chris Droney has served with distinction as a United States District Judge in Connecticut. His reputation for fairness and impartiality, combined with his incredible intellect and deep understanding of the law is known and acknowledged throughout every corner of our state. “I am very pleased to extend my deepest congratulations to Chris and his entire family on his confirmation as US Court of Appeals Second Circuit Judge. “I am confident that Chris will continue to make Connecticut, and the country, proud every day and look forward to his time as a Second Circuit Judge.” ###
11.21.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement in support of the New Britain-Hartford Busway. Earlier today a federal grant agreement was signed at a ceremony at Central Connecticut State University giving the go ahead to begin project construction. “With today’s federal grant agreement, an important step has been taken towards enhancing multimodal transportation in Connecticut. The New Britain-Hartford Busway is a significant project that will create jobs and expand transportation options by making Union Station a true intermodal hub, spurring transit oriented development, and relieving congestion on I-84. I would like to applaud Governor Malloy, the Department of Transportation, FTA Administrator Rogoff, and my colleagues in the Congressional Delegation for bringing this project to fruition. “From its inception 14 years ago under Governor John Rowland, to further development under Governor M. Jodi Rell, and now final execution under Governor Malloy the Busway has enjoyed bipartisan support. Failure to act on this project would have cost Connecticut significant federal funding and vital jobs that our construction industry has been looking for throughout our area. Additionally, for many of our current businesses leaders in the metro-Hartford area - the Aetna, The Hartford and our local chambers of commerce - this project was seen as an important piece of our transportation infrastructure. “This money was not transferable to another project. Much like the reallocated high speed rail funding that Connecticut received following the state of Florida’s rejection, failure to act on this funding would have reallocated it elsewhere in the country. “Again I applaud Governor Malloy for his decisive action. When other states failed to act on transportation funding, his vision has made this project a reality. I am pleased that this project is moving forward and will continue to work to improve Connecticut’s transportation system by supporting initiatives such as expanding commuter rail access to connect Bristol and Waterbury.” ###
11.18.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Republican Budget Constitutional Amendment that was rejected by the House today: “The House made the right decision today. Despite their rhetoric, the Republican attempt to amend our Constitution wasn’t a real effort to get our fiscal house in order. As former Reagan Economic Advisor Bruce Bartlett said earlier this week, the Republicans in Congress ‘prefer to delude voters with pie-in-the-sky promises that amending the Constitution will painlessly solve all our budget problems.’ “So while I commend Bob Goodlatte and our colleagues on both sides of the aisle who care deeply about the fiscal health of our nation, I don’t believe we need a constitutional amendment to do our jobs as Members of Congress. “I would note that even the Republican Budget Chairman, Paul Ryan, recognized that this amendment was simply a bridge too far.” # # #
11.18.2011	State Now Eligible For More Federal Funding To Help With Snow Storm Recovery WASHINGTON - The Connecticut delegation Thursday expressed gratitude to President Obama, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano, and FEMA Administrator Fugate for declaring a disaster for Connecticut as a result of last month’s fierce snow storm and the damage and power outages that resulted. Under the declaration, seven counties are designated for assistance which will help state and local governments to repair wreckage caused by the storm. Additionally, the whole state will now be eligible to apply for separate grants for hazard mitigation to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from hazards. The delegation has been working since the storm struck to help the state get federal assistance. Earlier this month, the President issued an emergency declaration for the whole state. The delegation has also been working to ensure there are adequate funds available for federal recovery and response efforts. Weather reports indicate that the storm dropped up to twenty inches of snow in some parts of the State and that wind gusts as high as 38 mph added to the ferocity of the storm. The snow stuck to all objects, especially trees, which had not yet lost their leaves, and power lines. The Connecticut Department of Transportation and municipalities report that over 300 state roads and hundreds of town roads were either closed or blocked. At the highpoint, over 880,000 customers were without electrical power and power remained out in some areas for over a week. -30-
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on House passage of a bill that provides the funding necessary to continue disaster aid for Connecticut following last month’s winter storm. “While far from perfect, this bill was able to protect funding for many of the programs that are critical to Connecticut residents. “Most notably the bill provides adequate funding to the agencies that provide Connecticut with the disaster relief that is so needed following last month’s freak snowstorm. Additionally, the bill continues our commitment to ending homelessness among our Veterans while providing an increase to childhood nutrition programs. “Unfortunately, the bill falls far short of the funding necessary for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. We cannot let up when it comes to addressing abuse within the financial sector, and that’s why I will continue to work with Ranking Member Norm Dicks and my colleagues in the House to ensure that the CFTC receives the resources it needs to get the cops back on the beat and prevent the abusive speculation that continues to drive up our oil costs. With the winter months approaching and energy prices likely to increase, Connecticut residents deserve nothing less.” ###
11.17.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), who introduced President Obama’s American Jobs Act, released the following statement tonight on House passage of the “VOW to Hire Heroes Act”, the veterans portion of the AJA: "Our men and women in uniform live by the expression ‘leave no soldier behind’, and so should Congress. We’ve asked a lot of our veterans and when they return home we must ensure that they’re taken care of; which includes making sure they can find a good paying job as they transition to civilian life. "Helping them is not only the honorable thing to do, it’s also the smart economic thing to do. Which is why President Obama included measures to help get our veterans back to work in his jobs package. And why Democrats in Congress pressed so hard to see these measures passed. "Today’s vote is a win for our veterans. It’s a win for our economy. And it shows that Democrats and Republicans can work together to get something done. Now we need to do something to help get the millions of other Americans caught in what one of my constituents called this “dark abyss of uncertainty” back to work."
11.16.2011	(Washington, DC) – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation today sent a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Doug Shulman urging the agency to extend IRS filing and payment deadlines for Connecticut residents affected by the recent snow storm that hit Connecticut and left hundreds of thousands without power for days. The October snow storm struck Connecticut on October 29 and initially left more than 800,000 Connecticut residents without power. In the letter the delegation writes: “On November 11, 2011, the State of Connecticut wrote to President Obama asking for a major disaster declaration since preliminary damage assessments documented over $27 million in uninsured damages – over five times FEMA’s statewide threshold. The severe consequences outlined above prevented many individuals from meeting IRS filing and payment deadlines and we therefore ask that you extend those deadlines in order to give affected residents relief they desperately need as authorized by IRS guidelines.” The full text of letter is below: The Honorable Douglas H. Shulman Commissioner Internal Revenue Service 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20224 Dear Commissioner Shulman: On October 29, 2011, a severe winter storm wreaked havoc on the State of Connecticut. Weather reports indicate that the storm dropped up to twenty inches of snow in some parts of the State and that wind gusts as high as 38 mph added to the ferocity of the storm. The snow stuck to all objects, especially trees, which had not yet lost their leaves, and power lines. The weight of the wet snow, combined with soil still wet from Tropical Storms Irene and Lee, resulted in hundreds of thousands of trees being uprooted or losing limbs, devastating much of the electrical grid and blocking roads. The Connecticut Department of Transportation and municipalities report that over 300 state roads and hundreds of town roads were either closed or blocked. At the highpoint, over 880,000 customers were without electrical power and power remained out in many areas for over a week. Complete restoration of power from this crippling storm took over ten days. These power outages and road blockages led to the closing of 480 schools in 95 districts and a week later, 19 school districts were still closed. The State also suffered damage to fuel stations and communications capabilities, with over 35% of all cell sites down at one point. Tragically, ten people have died as a result of the storm. On October 31, 2011, President Obama issued an emergency declaration covering the entire State -- all eight Connecticut counties -- which was amended on November 4, 2011. This declaration authorized the Federal government to provide Public Assistance and emergency protective measures. Emergency protective measures are actions taken to save lives, protect public health and safety, and prevent damage to improved public and private property. Examples of eligible emergency protective measures include provision of shelters or emergency care, provision of food, water, ice, and other essential needs, emergency repairs, emergency demolition, and removal of health and safety hazards. Thus, under the declaration, FEMA was authorized to provide assistance directly to individuals living anywhere in Connecticut, including supplying commodities such as MREs, water, blankets, cots, and generators. Due to the severity of the storm, emergency responders delivered commodities to 86 towns during the response. Officials opened over 58 shelters and 118 warming/bathing centers. Even ten days after the storm, 12 shelters and 46 warming centers remained open due to continued power outages. Additionally, on November 11, 2011, the State of Connecticut wrote to President Obama asking for a major disaster declaration since preliminary damage assessments documented over $27 million in uninsured damages – over five times FEMA’s statewide threshold. The severe consequences outlined above prevented many individuals from meeting IRS filing and payment deadlines and we therefore ask that you extend those deadlines in order to give affected residents relief they desperately need as authorized by IRS guidelines. “An emergency is defined as any occasion or instance in which federal assistance, (Public Assistance or Hazard Mitigation Assistance), is needed to supplement State and local efforts. The endeavors involve the capabilities to save lives, protect property, public health and safety, or to lessen or avert the threat of a catastrophe in any part of the United States. IRS may extend relief as a result of any emergency situation.” Internal Revenue Manual, 25.16.1.1(6) (emphasis added). Specifically, the “IRS may provide relief in the form of extensions of time to file or pay under IRC § 6081 and IRC § 6161 in any disaster. If the President makes a disaster or emergency declaration, then IRS may provide relief under IRC § 7508A.” Internal Revenue Manual, 25.16.1.1(7). Notably, the “IRS has considerable discretion and flexibility in providing disaster relief.” Internal Revenue Manual 25.16.1.2.1(2). Given the severe consequences of this devastating storm, we ask that you quickly extended IRS filing and payment deadlines. We appreciate your attention to this matter and look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Joseph I. Lieberman, United States Senator Richard Blumenthal, United States Senator John B. Larson, Member of Congress Rosa DeLauro, Member of Congress Christopher S. Murphy, Member of Congress Joe Courtney, Member of Congress Jim Himes, Member of Congress # # #
11.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Members of Connecticut’s congressional delegation applauded the decision by Congressional Appropriators to include more than $2.6 billion in disaster relief funding in the appropriations bill being considered by Congress this week. The funding, which will allow continued Economic Development Agency (EDA) disaster assistance, Federal Highway Administration Emergency Relief funding, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) and Department of Agriculture disaster relief, was included in a conference report for an Appropriations bill that provides fiscal year 2012 funding for the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Justice, Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development. Last Wednesday, November 9th the delegation sent a letter to Senate and House Appropriations Committee heads urging them to maintain disaster funding included in several bills passed by the Senate. “Sometimes, when disaster strikes, state and local governments lack the resources to help their citizens recover quickly and return to normal,” Senator Lieberman said. “That was the case in Connecticut twice in the last three months – after Hurricane Irene at the end of August and after the freak winter storm at the end of October. At times like those, the federal government has an obligation to assist overwhelmed states. House and Senate appropriators understand that and have wisely proposed more than $2 billion in disaster relief funds for the next fiscal year, which Connecticut may be eligible for.” “I applaud the Congressional leadership for stepping up to the plate and putting politics aside when disaster strikes,” said Senator Blumenthal, “These funds will help Connecticut communities repair their roadways, small businesses get back on their feet, and individuals recover from the financial toll of October’s unprecedented storm.” The federal assistance in the conference report includes: $200 Million in disaster assistance through the Economic Development Agency. $1.66 Billion in emergency relief through the Federal Highway Administration. $400 Million in Community Development Block Grant funding. $367 Million in disaster relief through the Department of Agriculture. “This funding will go a long way in ensuring that municipalities, individual property owners and businesses who sustained damage during last month’s freak October snowstorm will have an opportunity to recoup some of their losses,” Congressman Larson said. “I am very pleased that Congressional leadership has recognized the necessity of including disaster funding into the minibus bill.” “Disaster Relief funding is critical for towns, small businesses and families across eastern Connecticut that are still working to recover from a one-two punch of devastating storms,” said Congressman Courtney. “This funding will make an immediate positive impact in places that need it the most.” “I am very pleased that the majority of the disaster relief funds requested were included in this conference report,” Congresswoman DeLauro said. “Communities across the nation have been devastated by natural disasters this year, and Connecticut has been particularly hard-hit by historic storms in recent months. Our citizens are in need of federal help, and these funds will be critical in ensuring that our residents and businesses can recover and rebuild.” “The hurricane, early snow storm, and power outages residents across Connecticut have suffered over the last few months remind us that anyone can be the victim of a disaster,” Himes said. “This funding is absolutely critical as thousands of our neighbors put their lives, homes, and businesses back together.” “Times are tough right now for people in Connecticut,” said Congressman Murphy. “Adding to an already down economy, we’ve had two major storms, massive flooding and power outages that have crippled our state and caused so much damage to our homes, our businesses and our lives. This funding will help people in Connecticut, and I’ll fight to ensure it gets through Congress to the people who need it.” ###
11.11.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement recognizing Veterans Day, which will be celebrated on Friday, November 11: “Americans owe our veterans and their families immeasurable thanks for their service to our country. Today, we honor the bravery and valor of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, guardsmen and Marines, past and present. Let us vow to never forget their sacrifices.” "There's an expression on the battlefield saying, "Leave no soldier behind'. We must ensure that when our veterans return home that we are taking care of them. Making sure they have access to a good paying job. But most of all remembering to thank them for their service not just today, but every day." ###
11.10.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by Commissioner Glenn Marshall of the CT Department of Labor, Elliot Ginsberg of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT), Dr. Robert Kennedy of the CT Board of Regents for Higher Education, Thomas Phillips of Capital Workforce Partners and Industrial Air Flow Dynamics (IAFD) CEO, Stephen Harrington to announce the launch of a new manufacturing job-match initiative. The “Connecticut Manufacturing Job-Match Initiative” is aimed at not only developing the skills of a workforce to fill the current manufacturing job vacancies, but also one to compete for future high skilled jobs. “Manufacturing is part of our DNA here in Connecticut,” Congressman Larson said. “For over a hundred years our economy has been tied to a healthy manufacturing sector. This initiative will aim to create not only new manufacturing jobs, but a workforce that is properly trained and qualified to fill the future positions that will be opening in various manufacturing fields.” Gathered at IAFD headquarters in Glastonbury, the group discussed how each of their respective organizations would contribute to the initiative. “There is a growing need for workers that can fill high-tech manufacturing jobs and this initiative is a great way to make connections between employers that want to grow their companies and skilled individuals that want to get back to work,” said CT DOL Commissioner Glen Marshall. “Using technology to capture specific skills of the workforce allows us to more effectively identify our state’s workforce talent and better meet the needs of employers throughout Connecticut.” “CCAT is excited to work with the Congressman's Office on the design and implementation of an enhanced job matching model that benefits employers and jobseekers,” said Eliot Ginsberg, President & CEO of CCAT. By understanding specific job requirements as defined by manufacturers, and assessing the skill sets of potential candidates, using the NAM-endorsed Skill Certification System, we will be better prepared to facilitate a successful job match.” “If Connecticut’s economy is to rebound strongly, we must accelerate the level of collaboration and coordination between business and higher education. Today, job openings don’t necessarily match with graduates,” said Robert A. Kennedy, interim President of the Board of Regents for Higher Education. “We must examine the academic programs of public institutions and strengthen the focus on developing graduates with critical thinking skills, the ability to adapt rapidly and the technical know-how to contribute in the workplace from day one. There is no better example than manufacturing, which is why this initiative is so promising and so exciting.” “The CTWorks system is seeing thousands of unemployed job seekers during these challenged economic times. This job match initiative is a targeted way to fill open manufacturing positions effectively,” said Thomas Phillips, President and CEO of Capital Workforce Partners. “We will be able to quickly match qualified candidates to current jobs and train others so they will have the skills they need to fill any outstanding workforce gaps.” In addition to helping bring new men and women into the manufacturing workforce, the initiative will help existing workers assess their existing skills and obtain new ones. A sign up link is available on Congressman Larson’s web site, or you can click on the two links below. If you are a job seeker with a background in manufacturing, you can sign up here. If you are a local manufacturer, with an opening you’re seeking to fill, you can sign up here. ###
11.10.2011	HARTFORD — With low voter participation across the nation at the polls this week, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), announced today that he supports an initiative to move elections from Tuesdays to the weekend to make it easier for all citizens to do their civic duty. "As a representative democracy, voting is a fundamental responsibility for all Americans and the system should be as accessible as possible for as many as possible," said Larson. "Unfortunately, the system we have now was designed to meet our country’s needs over 160 years ago and it no longer makes any sense. It’s time we stop making people choose between exercising their responsibility to vote, and meeting their everyday obligations." The current system, with national and local elections held on Tuesdays, was originally established in 1845 to accommodate the schedule of a largely agrarian society. Today, as an urban society, with many competing demands on everyone’s time, taking the time to go vote during a busy workday is a large impediment for many Americans. In fact, voter turnout has decreased in almost every presidential election since 1965. The solution is simple, Larson says, "moving our elections to the weekend would make it much easier for everyone to get out and vote." That is the goal of the 'Why Tuesday' Initiative, a non-partisan, nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization founded in 2005 to find solutions to increase voter participation. 'Why Tuesday' supports the Weekend Voting Act which will be introduced this Congress to move Congressional and presidential elections to weekends. "Bill Wachtel and the folks at Why Tuesday are right," Larson noted. "Even one American voter disenfranchised because of an outdated scheduling policy is too many. I will be working to make this change in how we vote so that more Americans can participate without having to choose between work, or their families, and their desire to vote."
11.10.2011	*** Thank you very much for your interest. The job match is now closed. Please make sure you check back for future announcements. *** If you are interested in staying informed on future job match opportunities, please contact Congressman Larson's office at (860) 278-8888. About the Job Match The “Connecticut Manufacturing Job-Match Initiative” is aimed at not only developing the skills of a workforce to fill the current manufacturing job vacancies, but also one to compete for future high skilled jobs. “Manufacturing is part of our DNA here in Connecticut,” Congressman Larson said. “For over a hundred years our economy has been tied to a healthy manufacturing sector. This initiative will aim to create not only new manufacturing jobs, but a workforce that is properly trained and qualified to fill the future positions that will opening in various manufacturing fields.” In addition to helping bring new men and women into the manufacturing workforce, the initiative will help existing workers assess their existing skills and obtain new ones.
11.08.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after Connecticut Light & Power missed their Sunday evening deadline to restore power to 99 percent of customers and as of Tuesday morning had still failed to restore power to over 20,000 households. Larson, who met with line crews and talked with volunteers in shelters praised the men and women involved in the recovery effort for, “demonstrating all that is good in our communities, state and nation.” “As we approach Thanksgiving and this horrific event passes, we have much to be grateful for. However, nothing short of a comprehensive look back to both better prepare us for the next storm and to correct the mistakes that have occurred will suffice. “Finger pointing won’t turn on a light or warm a house, but accountability and an ability to effectively respond in a crisis calls for a full investigation of the response at all levels. “Despite multiple assurances last week, CL&P failed to meet its self-imposed deadline of Sunday at midnight to restore power to 99 percent of their customers. Unfortunately, too many in my district, and around the state, are still in the dark 10 days after the power first went out. Residents of West Hartford, Bloomfield and Granby are still without power, while far too many other towns are facing an unacceptably high percentage of outages. “This failure to respond has caused hardships all over the state and in some cases has resulted in loss of life and demands a comprehensive review. “I applaud Governor Malloy’s call for an independent look at CL&P’s response as well as my colleagues call for FERC’s examination of the Federal Power Act. I firmly believe a comprehensive investigation that will look at the response to this storm from CL&P’s prevention and restoration plans to federal and state response and coordination is necessary. An investigation should also address NU’s prioritization of shareholders versus customers as throughout our state far too many customers have been left in the dark.” “We must ensure that this sort of failure never happens again.” ###
11.07.2011	WASHINGTON, DC- Senators Joe Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal and Congressman John Larson today announced a $75 million contract for the Military Engines division of Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford. The contract, which was awarded by the U.S. Navy, will fund a comprehensive set of engineering, programmatic, and logistics services for the company’s Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) F135 Propulsion System. “I am pleased to see that the Joint Strike Fighter program continues to move forward with this award for Pratt and Whitney’s F135 engine. The Joint Strike Fighter will be a crucial asset to our national defense for years to come while also sustaining Connecticut’s robust defense industrial base. The success of this program is very important for the country, and I am very proud of the role that our state, its industries and the skilled workers of Pratt & Whitney are playing in it,” said Senator Lieberman. “This award represents a positive step forward for Pratt & Whitney and its F135 program,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This contract is a reminder that Pratt and its workers are delivering the most reliable and most effective engines to advance the mission of the Joint Strike Fighter program well into the future. It is a down payment on a program that will sustain and create high quality Connecticut jobs for years to come. I applaud the U.S. Navy for acknowledging the role that Connecticut’s highly skilled workers play in achieving its strategic and manufacturing goals.” “Once again I am so proud to see Pratt & Whitney continue to ‘Keep the Eagle Flying,’” Congressman Larson said. “I want to congratulate Pratt leadership and the incredibly talented men and women that make up their workforce. This contract means new jobs and sustained success for an industry that has been a huge part of Connecticut’s manufacturing DNA for decades.” This contract will be used for a range of tasks related to the F135 jet engine that will power the Joint Strike Fighter for U.S. Services and JSF international partners. It will be used in part to examine the feasibility, operational readiness, cost, and implementation of the system through a series of studies. ###
11.07.2011	After HHS release of immediate LIHEAP funds last week, lawmakers call on House leadership to maintain $4.7 billion funding level in FY2012 budget WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), James P. McGovern (D-Mass.), John B. Larson (D-Conn.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) sent a letter to House leadership urging them to fund the Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) at least at the FY2011 level of $4.7 billion. With record numbers of American families turning to LIHEAP for the third year in a row, maintaining funding at current levels will mean families will not have to chose between heating their homes and food, medications or other basic needs. The funding levels set forth in the draft House appropriations bill would result in a reduction in LIHEAP funds of nearly $60 million for Massachusetts from last winter. Vermont would lose more than 30 percent of its LIHEAP funds and Connecticut would see a cut of more than 20 percent. A copy of the letter to House leadership can be found HERE. “Without home heating support, Massachusetts residents literally would be left out in the cold,” said Rep. Markey. “There are difficult budget decisions to be made as we work to reduce the deficit, but American families shouldn’t have to decide between heating and eating this winter. With the costs of home heating fuel rising across the board, we should not subject this critical program to draconian cuts.” “The LIHEAP program is absolutely essential to keeping thousands of our most vulnerable neighbors warm in the winter,” said Rep. McGovern. “To cut LIHEAP funds during these difficult economic times would force too many people to choose between rent, food, medicine and heat. That would be unacceptable, and I urge the House leadership to fund LIHEAP at appropriate levels.” “Already, winter has hit Connecticut and the northeast leaving many people with the anxiety of how to pay for an extra long season of keeping their families warm,” said Rep. Larson. “For years, the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) has played a major role in ensuring that low-income families are able to meet their home energy needs, and this year should be no different. As the expiration of funding for the government fast approaches, I urge my colleagues on the appropriations committee to fund LIHEAP at the very least, last year’s funding levels and make sure everyone who needs energy assistance has it.” “Even in good economic times, LIHEAP is a critical lifeline for countless Vermonters,” said Rep. Welch. “Now, with wages stagnant, a tough economy, rising fuel prices and Vermonters struggling to recover from Tropical Storm Irene, it is even more critical. Winter is upon us in the northeast and we need to get the money to those who need it now.” The Department of Energy is reporting an increase in the price for most heating fuels this winter, with home heating oil expected to reach record highs across America this winter. The National Energy Assistance Directors’ Association anticipates 9.4 million households will seek assistance with their energy costs through the LIHEAP program this winter, up from 8.9 million last year. The funding level of $3.4 billion for LIHEAP in the draft House Labor HHS appropriations bill for the remainder of FY2012 would allow assistance for only seven million households. Last month, Reps. Markey, LaTourette, McGovern, Larson and Welch sent a letter from a bipartisan coalition of lawmakers calling on HHS to immediately release as much LIHEAP funding as possible under the current continuing resolution that expires November 18, 2011. ###
11.04.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman Larson released the following statement on the remaining members of the Connecticut delegations decision to call for an investigation of CL&P: “My primary focus right now is to make sure everyone in CT gets power as soon as possible and to ensure that the right entities are coordinating to get my constituents power and heat especially before this cold weekend. “There will be ample time after power restoration and recovery efforts are complete to examine what went wrong when the power went out. At the appropriate time I plan to support a full investigation, that looks at the entire process- from the federal agencies coordination all the way down to the performance and preparation of CL&P. “Connecticut has been slammed by Irene, Lee and now this freak October snowstorm. We must look at all levels of government participation and figure out how to better respond so that residents will never have to wait a week to get power back up and running. “I support the spirit of the call for investigation and intend to do my part to look at what went wrong here and how to fix it as to ensure the response is faster and better coordinated next time, but right now, my objective and efforts are focused on getting the lights back on.” ###
11.03.2011	Transcript of Yesterday’s Press Availability After House Democratic Caucus Meeting WASHINGTON – Representatives John B. Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) held a press availability yesterday before the Democratic Caucus meeting on the ongoing storm recovery efforts in Connecticut and the need for Congress to address Jobs. Below is the transcript: Rep. Larson: Well good morning and thank you very much for joining us for a pre Caucus conference. We want to take a moment before we begin – a parochial interest, but something extraordinarily important. Connecticut has gone through what I think most people would call a Katrina – Rita experience, where we have been hammered in succession by Irene, excessive rainstorms, and now of course, this northeaster, Alfred, which of course comes at an unusual time – in the fall when leaves were overburdening our trees and caused a catastrophic occurrence across the state of Connecticut. At its high point more than 900,000 people were out of power in the state of Connecticut. I commend the Governor and his office in the way that they have responded. We thank the President and FEMA. The delegation has been working with the Administration to make sure that we got emergency status, but for the more than 500,000 people that are still out of power and have been so since Saturday, this is very difficult. We appreciate their persistence and their perseverance through this time. But certainly it’s a frustrating time when you have 29 transmission lines that go down, where we had none during Irene. The task has been a yeoman’s one. We have doubled our efforts here as a delegation. I was directed to speak to the President yesterday on behalf of the delegation. A full complement of FEMA and the part of the restoration that we so desperately need in terms of additional line men is going to be coming forward in large part thanks to the effort and persistency of this delegation. I know that Jim Himes and Joe Lieberman and Dick Blumenthal and Chris Murphy all have participated in this as well. Before we go directly to our message on jobs I wanted you to hear from Rosa DeLauro and Joe Courtney, who will also have something to say about jobs, but about the state of Connecticut. Rep. DeLauro: Thanks very much John, and I’m pleased to be here with my colleagues, both for the message which we will talk about with regard to putting people back to work in our state of Connecticut, but across the country, but particularly about the state of play in Connecticut, which as Congressman Larson has pointed out, is really devastating – and up to 20 inches of snow in Connecticut – the power outage – as Congressman Larson has pointed out – and the reason for that. I visited yesterday, and I know my colleagues have visited in their respective districts, the shelters. I was in Seymour, Connecticut where there was 100 percent power outage and people in shelters coming in for a shower or coming in to stay overnight in Middletown, where they’ve really accommodated close to, in the last several days, seven – eight hundred people. I was there on Sunday night and went back there yesterday, and folks were still there that I saw on Sunday. And also to Middlefield, I was in Naugatuck, and in those shelters - what you see – babies – six months, eight months old to people who are 88 or 90 years old. They are wanting to go back to their homes, but they can’t – it’s too cold, and the temperature has dropped in Connecticut. So again, we’re grateful for the effort the Governor has mounted, and we were all at the Governor’s – Congressman Courtney, Congressman Larson, and myself, were at the Governor’s Emergency Operations Center yesterday to talk to the Deputy Secretary from Energy to provide some assistance with this extraordinary power outage we have faced. We also – I want to take a moment just to say to the people of Connecticut and the people who have been hurt that their resilience is extraordinary. The outpouring of volunteers to come and help, places who have donated food to make sure people are eating, and sending blankets, etc. to take care of them. But the issue is getting that power back on so that they can go home. We are working with the White House in order to get the additional amendment designating protective services for our state and for our municipalities. But it’s an extraordinary situation and I know that this has happened to other parts of the country, but for us it’s happened, and it’s been a double whammy and we want to make sure that Connecticut and the people of Connecticut receive the resources that they need to be able to get their lives back together again. Joe Courtney? Rep. Courtney: Just briefly, because I think both of them described well the situation. This morning the utility, the largest utility in the state, projected that we would have power back on Sunday at midnight, so that’s another three or four days. My home town, Vernon, is completely a hundred percent out. My wife and I and our daughter have been camping at home, because that’s really kind of what your lifestyle is - I shaved with melted snow yesterday morning. And again, unlike Irene, which again, happened about three months ago, you know, the temperatures are in the 20’s in the evening, the days are short, and this is just a much tougher challenge for people to get through. Irene, obviously, had long summer nights and weather in the 80’s for people, so that, again, their immediate health was not threatened. John lost one of his constituents last night with carbon monoxide poisoning. A lot of folks, unfortunately, really aren’t able to really utilize their generators in a safe fashion – using them inside – and you know, this is going to be a very difficult three or four days ahead for the state and I know that all of us that came down last night are going to do everything we can to make sure the White House steps up every bit of assistance that we can get. Number one, more line crews, and number two, to get public assistance to these communities whose volunteer fire departments, police departments, their cert crews are just being stretched beyond the max. So thank you, John, for taking a moment to put the spotlight on us. Rep. Larson: I want to thank my colleagues, and I thank the press for this indulgence, but I think you can see 11 states were impacted, more than 2 million people, 900,000 of which were in Connecticut. So this is something near and dear to our hearts. Uppermost on their minds of course, in the state of Connecticut, even in the midst of this catastrophe is jobs. And so, here we continue to wait for the Republicans to take up the President’s agenda, to put the country back to work. As the President has said, this nation can't wait, well, when he said it more than a month ago it was 14 months, to be put back to work. A month has transpired, more time has elapsed, and the country is still not back to work. And yet we have plans from both sides of the aisle that exist out there, that could be put into play, that could put this country back to work, which is precisely what we need. We cannot understand the recalcitrance on the part of the Republicans leadership, not to take up the President's bill. Obviously with 51 votes in the Senate, it has a majority over in the Senate. But only the arcane cloture rules in the Senate would prevent what every third-grader knows: that 51 votes means a majority of the people favor an initiative that would put them back to work. It's hard to conceive for the American people during this difficult time when they're out of work and many of them, like us in the state of Connecticut, dealing with other natural calamities, have to deal with this personal calamity. As one woman put it in my district, "I feel like I'm in the dark abyss of uncertainty. Does anyone in Washington understand my concerns and what it's like to be out of work and not knowing the future and not knowing whether help is on the way?" Especially frustrating when you have all these plans that are laid out there. And whether it's infrastructure banks and whether it's putting people back to work directly, whether it's our fire, police and teachers, these are things that everybody understands and recognizes that this would grow the economy immediately and it's precisely what needs to be done, and continues to be a frustration of the Democratic Caucus, not to see this happen. We will persist in hope that the Select Committee takes up jobs because we know that job creation equals deficit reduction. The President later today will be hosting at a bridge here in town the need for infrastructure. Again, let's put the country back to work. 14 million people unemployed, 25 million underemployed need the dignity that comes from a job. My colleagues? Rep. Courtney: Well, again, what we just talked about a moment ago is another textbook example of the fact that we have incredibly fragile power and energy infrastructure. We had two transformers collapse and fall into the Connecticut River. That should not be happening, and the opportunities and capacity for this country to strengthen its ability to move people and goods from one place to another by investing in transportation, by improving our power infrastructure in terms of burying lines, hardening, again, the substations and transformers. It is really limitless. And the only thing that's holding us back is the political will to move forward as a country. And as John said, what I think people looking at Washington, what I hear, is that this place scares them. Because we can't do some of the basic, fundamental tasks of government in terms of setting the horizon with budgets, with getting passed, again, what I think should be a fairly easy task of getting deficit reduction over a 10 year period on the right trajectory. And instead we're just sort of trapped in this approach that the Republican majority has in the House, where their goal, and I think everybody gets it, is to take this President down. This is about power. It's not about what's in the best interest of the country. Because if it was about what's in the best interest of this country, we would be moving forward on this jobs agenda. Rep. DeLauro: Thank you. I echo the comments of my colleagues, but I would add that some 17 years ago, I introduced the national infrastructure bank, and in that regard, because an infrastructure bank, a development bank akin to what they have done in Europe with the European investment bank, is a driver of jobs in the long term. That's what we have been talking about here. That's what the President has proposed in his jobs bill. And I'm hopeful that the Senate this week – unlike what it's done in the prior weeks, is to vote down the jobs bill package all together, and then followed up by voting down the Fix America's Schools as quickly as we can to put people back to work – that they will pass the legislation for an infrastructure bank. It is the key to our success. That's not my commentary, but you check with any of the economists around the country and around the world, quite frankly, both in terms of long-term and short-term job growth. If we can pull together public and private partnerships, to leverage dollars, to rebuild America, we can put this nation back on track. Our Republican colleagues in the last election said that they were going to create jobs and turn the economy around. None of which they have accomplished to date. And if you do create jobs you will lower the deficit. That is a goal. However, the deficit goal should not be one that is only looked at through cutting the programs that would help to put people to work. It also means that there needs to be revenue on the table and it seems that our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are reluctant to put revenue on the table, as they are reluctant to even provide in the House of Representatives a hearing. Regular order? They talk about regular order? When we have not been able to have a hearing on a piece of legislation, whether you are for it or against it? The biggest single crisis in the nation, the challenge is to get people back to work and they will not hold a hearing on jobs. It tells you who the obstructionists are and who are willing to let this economy collapse because of politics. Rep. Larson: Thank you. We’re on our way to a Caucus. I will come out after the Caucus and take further questions, but I apologize because we are running late this morning. # # #
11.02.2011	Lawmakers urge utility company to take advantage of available assistance, expedite recovery HARTFORD – The Connecticut Congressional Delegation announced today that additional utility crews are being made available to Connecticut Light & Power (CL&P) from around the country to aid in ongoing storm recovery efforts. At the urging of Governor Malloy and the Delegation, the Department of Energy coordinated with the American Public Power Association (APPA), which arranged for additional crews to be redirected from places like New Jersey and Massachusetts to help Connecticut. Earlier this week the Delegation reached out to Secretary of Energy Steven Chu to press for all available assistance – a request they reiterated today. Secretary Chu sent Bill Bryan, the Department’s Deputy Assistant Secretary for Infrastructure Security and Energy Restoration to Connecticut to help ensure that the agency is doing everything possible to respond. The additional utility crews are a direct result of Bryan’s meetings on the ground yesterday in Hartford with Governor Malloy and the Congressional Delegation, represented by Cong. John Larson (CT-01), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Joe Courtney (CT-02). The delegation released the following joint statement: “We are grateful for the response from the federal government to our concerns, and hope that CL&P takes full advantage of these available resources in order to restore power to our state as quickly as possible.” ###
11.01.2011	State Eligible for Federal Funding to Help with Snow Recovery WASHINGTON – The Connecticut Congressional delegation Monday thanked President Obama, Department of Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate for declaring an emergency for Connecticut in the wake of a fierce snow storm that hit over the weekend. Under the declaration, the entire state is eligible for assistance to protect property and public safety and lessen the damage. The delegation has been in touch with White House representatives since yesterday to seek federal assistance. President Obama did so this afternoon. Weather reports indicated that up to twenty inches of snow fell in parts of the state, causing trees to fall and blocking roads. The Connecticut Department of Transportation estimates that the number of downed trees affecting roads has resulted in more than five times the damage caused by Tropical Storm Irene. At one point, approximately 60 percent of the state had lost electricity and power companies project complete restoration will take at least a week. In response to the storm, Governor Malloy declared a State of Emergency. The Connecticut National Guard, Community Emergency Response Teams, the Civil Air Patrol, a Medical Reserve Corps Team and Connecticut’s Urban Search and Rescue team have been activated and thirty-seven municipalities have opened their Emergency Operations Center.
10.28.2011	Medicare Part B deductible will decrease by $22 in 2012 HARTFORD – This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) praised an announcement from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) that Medicare Part B deductibles will be going down in 2012 and premiums will be lower than projected as good news for seniors. According to HHS, Medicare Part B deductibles will decrease by $22 in 2012, while premiums will change from $96.40 to $99.90, an increase of only $3.50. The announced Social Security cost-of-living adjustment of 3.6 percent ($43 for the average beneficiary) will more than offset the cost of this slight increase, leaving seniors and individuals with disabilities with more money in their pockets to deal with ever-increasing expenses. “This announcement is good news for seniors throughout Connecticut and the entire country,” Congressman Larson said. “Coupled with last week’s announcement of a Social Security COLA increase, seniors are seeing real relief at a time when gas and food prices continue to climb. For millions of seniors in this country, Medicare and Social Security are critical programs that they rely on a daily basis. We must continue to not only preserve them, but actively look to strengthen them as more and more Americans join the ranks of the retired.” There are currently 571,000 Medicare beneficiaries in Connecticut, with 118,000 residing in the First Congressional District. ###
10.28.2011	Grant will allow city to break ground on new housing development next month HARTFORD – This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), United States Senator Richard Blumenthal and Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra announced that the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has officially approved a $3.8 million grant to help finance a new housing project on the grounds of the Capewell Horseshoe Nail Factory. “This grant will have an immediate and positive impact on our city,” Congressman Larson said. “Combined with the ongoing process of helping Coltsville gain National Historic Park status, by converting the Capewell grounds into affordable housing, Hartford is creating jobs and laying a strong economic foundation for its future.” “These resources, key to providing affordable housing and creating economic development, are welcome news to the City of Hartford,” Senator Blumenthal said. “I will continue to work with Congressman Larson and Mayor Segarra on these initiatives that are vital to growing Hartford’s economy and revitalizing cities across our state.” "Through collaboration and commitment, we got a long stalled project off the ground and will improve the quality of life for residents and provide hope and opportunity for homebuyers. No longer are we talking about progress we are making progress," said Mayor Segarra. The current plan for the site is to construct 16 townhouses on the corner of Popieluszko Court and Wyllys Street that will be made available for low/moderate-income homebuyers. Among the units there will be two two-bedroom and fourteen three-bedroom townhomes. The project is scheduled to break ground next month and be completed by September of 2013, with new homeowners able to move in by December 2013. ###
10.25.2011	SOUTH WINDSOR, CONN. – Last Friday afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) served as a guest speaker before the South Windsor Chamber of Commerce. During the lunch meeting, Congressman Larson discussed his ongoing efforts to pass job creation legislation in the House of Representatives. In addition to introducing President Obama’s “American Jobs Act” last month, Congressman Larson has been a staunch advocate for incorporating job creation into the work of the Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (Commonly referred to as the, “Super Committee”). “It is very simple: job creation equals deficit reduction,” Congressman Larson mentioned during his speech. “By returning the nation to what is considered full employment, we can help reduce our deficit by almost a third. I’ve spoken to both Democratic and Republican members of the committee and there is support among some members to incorporate job creation into the discussion.” This is the second time in as many months that Congressman Larson has spoken in front of the South Windsor Chamber of Commerce. Last month on September 27th Congressman Larson delivered brief remarks at an event honoring it’s Business Person of the Year. ###
10.25.2011	EAST HARTFORD -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) participated in a ceremony this afternoon at Pratt & Whitney dedicating a new model depicting the three variants of the F-35 Lightning II jet. Earlier this year Congressman Larson and the Connecticut delegation led a bipartisan effort to prevent additional government funding from being spent on an “alternate engine,” ensuring that Pratt & Whitney’s F-135 engine would be the sole propulsion system powering the F-35. “The fight to end the costly and wasteful F-136 alternate engine wouldn't have been successful were it not for the fantastic work being done by the men and women of Pratt & Whitney,” Congressman Larson said. “Their dedication to building a top of the line engine provided the Armed Forces and the Congress, including many new Republican Members, the confidence to eliminate the "alternate engine," saving the nation more than $3 billion. I congratulate the men and women of Pratt & Whitney and look forward to continuing to do all that I can in Washington to ‘Keep the Eagle Flying.’” The newly-dedicated model depicts the F-35 “A,” “B” and “C” variants used by the Navy, Marines and Air Force respectively. The “B” aircraft, used by the Marines, has the ability to take off vertically, bypassing the need for a runway. ###
10.25.2011	Associate Interior Director Echoes Secretary Salazar’s Support for Project WASHINGTON – Federal, state and municipal lawmakers hailed Acting Associate Director for Park Planning, Facilities, and Lands, National Park Service, Dept. of the Interior William D. Shaddox’s testimony this afternoon as another positive step towards turning the Coltsville Historic District into a National Historical Park Wednesday. During a hearing on the legislation that would establish Coltsville as a National Historical Park held by the Subcommittee on National Parks of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Shaddox echoed Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar’s statement in Hartford that, “Coltsville again promises to be an economic engine, producing jobs and spurring growth in the Hartford area.” “With today’s hearing, Coltsville’s drive to become a national park continues to gain steam,” Senator Joseph Lieberman said. “Coltsville’s past is as compelling as its future potential, and the spirit of innovation fostered there helps maintain Connecticut’s proud tradition of manufacturing everything from small arms to jet engines and even submarines.” “Today’s testimony by Mr. Shaddox once again recognizes the historical significance of Coltsville and the potential economic benefits National Park status the holds for Hartford and the entire state,” Congressman John Larson (CT-01) said. “While the bill still needs to pass Congress, today’s hearing shows that this near 10-year project has momentum and I am confident that we will ultimately succeed in making Coltsville a National Historical Park.” The Coltsville project dates back to 2002 when then-Senator Chris Dodd, Senator Lieberman and Congressman Larson introduced preliminary legislation calling for a study on the feasibility of the project. Since then, the project has garnered support from various federal, state and municipal officials, as well as community and business leaders. Most recently Governor Dannel Malloy, Senator Richard Blumenthal, Mayor Pedro Segarra and Congressman Larson hosted Secretary Salazar at Coltsville and gave him a tour of the project. “Coltsville is an iconic and valuable site for Hartford and the State of Connecticut,” Governor Malloy said. “Its designation as a National Historical Park has the potential to attract tourism dollars and expanded economic development in the area. Taking a piece of our state’s past and using it to help invest in our future makes sense.” “Today’s hearing is an important next step toward recognition of Coltsville as an important historic landmark that marks the rise of precision manufacturing in our country – an industry that helped make America a world leader,” Senator Blumenthal said. “We honor the Colt Legacy and bring needed jobs to Connecticut by designating these buildings and the surrounding area as a National Park.” “This positive momentum is inspiring. There is no better place to showcase democracy than in Hartford, and in particular, with Coltsville as a National Park. This distinction will capitalize on the progress we have made in this neighborhood, and throughout the city, through the investment in new schools and homes. It will also complement our iQuilt Partnership by connecting new and exciting developments Downtown and to our cultural assets and historic park system,” said Mayor Pedro E. Segarra. Today’s hearing paves the way for a potential subcommittee markup, clearing the bill for consideration by the committee for the Senate floor. ###
10.25.2011	HARTFORD – After two years with no change in Social Security benefits, this morning the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that seniors will see a Cost Of Living Adjustment (COLA) to help meet rising costs beginning in January. “Today’s announcement is good news for seniors," said Congressman John Larson (CT-01). "They've had to deal with ever-increasing food, gas, housing and medical costs with no increase in their income. So I'm glad to see them getting a little much needed relief.” Over 622,000 Social Security beneficiaries statewide, including over 132,000 beneficiaries in the First Congressional District, will benefit from the COLA. “Social Security, especially during difficult economic times, has been a lifeline for millions of Americans," Larson added. "That's why we must continue to fight to protect the hard-earned benefits that so many rely on.” ###
10.19.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded a vote today by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to begin cracking down on oil speculation by commodity traders who seek to drive the price of oil up to make a profit at the expense of American consumers. The move aims to limit the non-commercial market participants, who in many cases have no intention of delivering the commodities they buy, but instead, make money by artificially driving up the price in the market. Many industry experts believe this process causes excessive and abusive speculation, which has been identified as a key cause of rising gas and food prices. Since the beginning of the 112th Congress, Republicans in the House of Representatives have attempted to delay and defund the CFTC. “Today’s vote by the CFTC is a significant first step in cracking down on the excessive and abusive speculation practices that are driving up the costs of every day goods at a time when the American people can least afford to pay for them,” Congressman Larson said. “I strongly urge my colleagues in Congress to continue to allow the CFTC to do its job and implement the rules mandated by the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that will crack down on the practices that are causing Americans so much pain at the pump.” According to an April 2011 analysis by Goldman Sachs, unregulated speculation adds over $20 per barrel to the price of oil. Since 1990 the number of oil speculators has more than doubled and their percentage of the market has risen from 30 to nearly 70 percent. Last spring during a Senate hearing on tax subsidies, Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson admitted that the actual price of a barrel of oil should be $60-$70 based only on supply and demand. ###
10.14.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) urged seniors and eligible residents to take note of the recently announced Medicare Open Enrollment Period which begins Saturday, October 15 and ends on December 7, 2011. Open enrollment is beginning earlier this year, and lasting for a longer period of time – seven weeks. “Connecticut Medicare beneficiaries have many options to select from during this open enrollment period and thanks to the Affordable Care Act, beneficiaries now have access to free preventive care visits and lower costs for prescription drugs,” Congressman Larson said. “I strongly urge all Medicare beneficiaries to review their options during open enrollment and choose the plan that makes the most sense for them.” During this period Medicare beneficiaries can begin reviewing the quality ratings for Part C and Part D plans for the 2012 year. This year the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) will be identifying the plans with the highest, 5-star, rating with a gold star to make searching easier. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act Medicare Part D recipients will continue to see prescription drug costs decrease thanks to the closing of the “Donut Hole.” Additionally during 2012 Medicare beneficiaries will have access to preventive care visits without copayment and free wellness visits. To search for a Medicare plan, beneficiaries should visit www.medicare.gov/find-a-plan. Additional resources that may be helpful are listed below. www.Medicare.gov – Offers information on various plans and enrollment steps as well as various other frequently asked questions about the program. 1-800-MEDICARE (1-800-633-2477) – A toll-free number to call to get information on Medicare. https://www.medicare.gov/publications/pubs/pdf/10050.pdf - A downloadable copy of the 2012 Medicare handbook. ###
10.14.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined with Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA), Whip Steny Hoyer (MD), and Small Business Committee Ranking Member Nydia Velazquez (NY) to introduce the proposals that House Democrats are sending to the Super Committee and to urge the Committee to go Bold, Balanced, and Big. You can watch Chairman Larson’s remarks here. Below is the transcript: ________________________________________________________________________________________________ “Let me underscore what our two leaders have said with respect to the effort put forward by the members of our Caucus. “I think [the submissions to the Super Committee] reflects our desire to put the country back to work and the consistent theme in everything that they have said is that job creation equals deficit reduction. “Job creation does equal deficit reduction. The CBO has said so clearly. There's no other single item or silver bullet that reduces the deficit by a third other than the creation of a job. “What we witnessed across America in the last several weeks are our citizens taking to the streets, borne out of frustration but borne primarily out of the desire to see their government respond to the simple dignity that comes from a job. The opportunity to look across the table at your spouse and children and family and let them know that they are secure, not only the fact that you have a job, but secure, again, in their aspirations and in their dreams for this great country of ours. “As the Leader has said, we have an unbelievable opportunity as witnessed by the enthusiasm of the people in our Caucus and, we dare say, I believe members of the other side of the aisle who truly do want to come together in this moment, in this opportunity, when the rest of the world is in peril and when the United States can be that shining example. We have an opportunity that excludes the cloture vote in the Senate and the poison pill amendments in the House, that will provide an up or down vote on something that is bold, something that is balanced and something that is big. “We all know that that is the path forward to job creation and this opportunity is one for us to come together, not as Democrats, not as Republicans, but as Americans and seize this opportunity that we have before us. That will continue to be our message. That's the message that our members have sent forward to this committee.” # # #
10.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after House action on trade today: “When I was asked for my vote by Julie Kushner, the Director of the United Auto Workers Region 9A in Connecticut, and the rest of UAW, they were clear about the impact this would have on American automobile manufacturers. As she said: ‘The Korea Free Trade Agreement will go a long way in eliminating the automotive trade gap that currently exists between the United States and South Korea. The agreement will lead to an improved economic relationship with South Korea, while enforcing safeguards aimed at protecting the American auto industry.’ “This was further confirmed by Zeke Zalaski, the President of UAW Local 712, who spoke for himself and the locals at Associated Spring in Bristol, when he said that ‘This trade agreement makes sense for the auto industry from both a national and local perspective. Connecticut is home to a number of small automotive industry suppliers, such as Associated Spring, who will benefit tremendously from the shrinking of the automotive trade gap with South Korea. This agreement will provide a major boost to automobile-related manufacturing here in Connecticut’ “Over the past few months, local manufacturers, such as DYMAX of Torrington and Ahlstrom Nonwovens of Windsor Locks, have made it clear that, on balance, the Panama and Korea free trade agreements are a plus for Connecticut. However, despite improvements, work still needs to be done on the Colombia free trade agreement, especially with continued atrocities perpetrated against labor leaders. “Passage of these free trade agreements would not have been possible without bipartisan action to renew a strengthened Trade Adjustment Assistance program. TAA provides essential retraining for our workforce so they can stay competitive in the global marketplace. “The real agenda, however, remains immediate passage of the china currency legislation to give our manufacturers a fair shot and a jobs agenda to put America back to work. The 14 million unemployed Americans deserve nothing less.” ###
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Yesterday Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) spoke at a ceremony honoring 14 Jewish military chaplains who died in the line of service during World War II, the Cold War era, and Vietnam/Southeast Asia. Congressman Larson was an original co-sponsor of legislation that recently passed through both the House of Representatives and Senate that designated a site for a memorial to the 14 fallen Jewish Chaplains at Arlington National Cemetery. “The Jewish Chaplains that we are honoring today served with honor and distinction in combat zones around the world, putting country above self in service to our nation,” Congressman Larson said. “It is well past due that the bravery and heroism of these individuals is acknowledged by our nation at Arlington National Cemetery. I am deeply honored to have played a role in the establishment of this memorial and look forward to the formal dedication.” The Arlington memorial is schedule to be formally dedicated at a ceremony on Monday, October 24th, but today supporters of the memorial held a brief ceremony at the Capitol. For more information on the memorial, please visit https://www.jcca.org/jwb/arlington-memorial/. ###
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), the House sponsor of the American Jobs Act, released the following statement after Senate Republicans unanimously blocked the Senate from moving forward with the bill today: "A majority of the Senate has spoken, yet no action will be taken because of a broken system. "What mystifies the nation is that 51 Senators can favor putting 14 million Americans back to work and, because of an arcane rule, be blocked from even considering the bill to do that. "That’s part of what's wrong in Congress and why people will continue to take to the streets over Congress's inability to meet their needs. They simply can’t understand why the will of the people cannot be served. "I hope this vote sheds light on a process that is totally out of touch with American's needs."
10.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) called for House action on the China currency bill today following its passage in the Senate by a bipartisan vote of 63 to 35. A majority of the House – including over 60 Republicans – have endorsed the legislation to level the playing field for American workers and create over a million jobs by holding countries accountable that create an unfair trade advantage by manipulating their currency: "I want to congratulate the Senate on passing this critical piece of legislation. "A trade agreement only works if both parties are negotiating in good faith. But by keeping their currency undervalued, China makes their products cheaper. And it’s no surprise that these subsidized exports have hurt our manufacturing base. "I’m calling on the Republican leadership in the House to follow the Senate’s example and take up this bill so that we can ensure that American business can compete on a level playing field. "This goes back to one of the basic principles of America - fairness. That's what Americans expect. Not a special deal. A fair deal. It’s time we give that to our manufacturers."
10.07.2011	New Haven, CT — Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Jim Himes (CT-4), and Chris Murphy (CT-5) praised the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s disaster declaration for the state of Connecticut today. This agriculture disaster declaration will enable Connecticut farmers whose crops or farms were damaged by Tropical Storm Irene to qualify for federal assistance. The U.S. Department of Agriculture will provide assistance including low-interest loans, financial assistance to help producers of non-insurable crops, and emergency funding to help cover production and physical losses. In September, the delegation held a teleconference call with farmers from the across Connecticut impacted by the storm and representatives from the Farm Service Agency (FSA), the National Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), and the Connecticut Department of Agriculture to discuss their concerns, the ongoing recovery efforts, and the need for an agriculture disaster declaration. “Farmers and crops across our state were devastated by the impacts of Tropical Storm Irene. From flooding and wind damage to the loss of profits and equipment, the damage was extensive. Our farmers need help, and this disaster declaration will give them access to a wide range of federal assistance,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “I look forward to continuing to work with our local communities and farmers to ensure that they get the help they need to rebuild, recover, and move forward.” “As Connecticut and the rest of the East Coast continues to recover from the aftermath of Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee, we must ensure that the farmers who have been devastated by these storms are not forgotten,” Congressman Larson said. “Though the FEMA disaster declaration and subsequent aid from the Small Business Administration has gone a long way to help residents who were negatively impacted, many of our small farms have lost a significant amount of crops and livestock. Today’s USDA Disaster Declaration will go a long way in helping individuals recoup some of the damage they suffered from these storms.” “This is very good news for farmers whose crops and small businesses were severely impacted by Tropical Storm Irene,” said Congressman Courtney. “Having seen the damage for myself firsthand after the storm, it was already clear to me that our farmers needed help. Today’s declaration will kickstart the recovery process. I will continue to work to ensure that all of the Connecticut farmers, Towns and businesses that were devastated by Tropical Storm Irene get the assistance they need.” “Hurricane Irene devastated families, businesses, and farms throughout Connecticut, and I urge all those who experienced uninsured losses to apply for assistance,” Congressman Himes said. “My office stands ready to help any constituents who need assistance applying for disaster relief.” “This is welcome news for the thousands of farmers across Connecticut whose crops were devastated by the storm and the terrible flooding in its aftermath,” said Congressman Murphy. “Our farms are in trouble, and this declaration will help rush relief to them. Our delegation pushed hard for this, and I’ll continue to fight for any and all available aid to help get Connecticut farmers back on their feet.” For more information on the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency and disaster assistance, please visit www.fsa.usda.gov.
10.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today applauding the thousands of Americans who have taken to the streets in New York and around the country for a more fair and equitable nation: “In New York and across the country, thousands of Americans have taken to the streets, certain of the morality of their message: bringing fairness to Main Street. “The silent masses aren't so silent anymore. They are fighting to give voice to the struggles that everyday Americans are going through.“While I don't condone their every action, I applaud their standing up for what they believe in. “Now is the time for Congress to act to create jobs and provide hope to those whose courage of conviction takes them to the streets.” # # #
10.04.2011	(Washington, DC) –Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT), Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Congressman John Larson (CT-1), Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), and Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4) today announced $9.9 million in workforce development grants for the Workplace Inc. and Capital Workforce Partners to target long term unemployed populations by providing them with education, career skills, and job placement assistance for jobs in the health care industry. Capital Workforce Partners will receive $4,986,817. Located in Hartford, Capitol Workforce Partners aims to develop a skilled and educated workforce by coordinating programs and working alongside state and local elected officials. The resources awarded will be used to assist unemployed workers gain the skills needed to transition to healthcare careers through occupational training and on-the-job training. “During these difficult economic times, Capitol Workforce Partners and The Workplace have been a gateway for many long-term unemployed in the state to reenter the workforce,” Senator Lieberman said. “These valuable grants will support these organizations in their mission to provide the career training and placement assistance that will ultimately lead people to new jobs.” “These grants are a great shot in the arm to workforce training, essential to unemployed workers gaining skills they need to fill good paying jobs. These resources will support extraordinary programs that help expand and grow Connecticut’s economy,” said Senator Blumenthal. “This is good news for Connecticut. This grant is intended to help long term unemployed workers gain the skills they need to compete in fields where we know there is strong demand for skilled workers,” Congressman Larson said. “Better yet, this grant will help Americans become qualified for jobs that employers are currently having to look abroad to fill. More skills for workers, more American employees for businesses. This grant is a win-win for our community.” “We are excited to embark on another workforce development initiative with the Hartford – Springfield Economic Partnership and the Regional Employment Board of Hampden County (MA) in helping to get people back to work in the New England Knowledge Corridor that stretches from Connecticut into Western Massachusetts,”,” says Thomas Phillips, President and CEO of Capital Workforce Partners. “This grant comes to us at a most critical time during a challenged economy and at a time when there is a strong need for a growing healthcare workforce.” The WorkPlace Inc., located in Bridgeport, received $4,936,845. The WorkPlace Inc. coordinates with business leaders and local officials to develop plans that identify and address the area’s employment needs and interests. The resources awarded will be used to fund an internship program that will train participants in healthcare fields and connect prospective employees to employers. “The WorkPlace, Inc. is a remarkable organization that I have had the privilege of working with for many years now. They have had an enormous impact in helping unemployed men and women get back on their feet and find good, well-paying jobs to support their families—and their efforts with long-term unemployed workers and our nation’s veterans is especially commendable. This new program will provide workers with a new set of useful, profitable skills in the health care industry, and ensure that our hospitals and health care providers have access to a highly-trained workforce,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “I am thrilled to announce this grant today and proud to have advocated for it with the department. I applaud the efforts of President Joe Carbone to give Connecticut’s workers the training and opportunities they need to be successful." “Ensuring workers have the tools they need to take on jobs in growing industries is one of the best things we can do to claw our way out of America’s dangerous and growing jobs crisis.” Congressman Himes said. “This grant does just that, and I look forward to continuing to work with The WorkPlace to put programs in place that will help people find and succeed in new careers.” “We are grateful to the Department of Labor for this opportunity and look forward to collaborating with our great partners to provide workers with the skills needed to enter healthcare careers. The Southwestern Connecticut Health Career Academy will be a bridge to hope that so many hard working but unemployed men and women in need,” said Joseph M. Carbone, President and Chief Executive Officer of The WorkPlace. Blumenthal, Lieberman, Larson, Himes, and DeLauro all advocated for the grants, which were awarded by the United States Department of Labor. # # #
10.04.2011	EAST HARTFORD, CONN. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by Deborah Poerio of Integrated Health Services (IHS), East Hartford School leadership and local legislators in announcing a $200,000 Health and Human Services (HHS) Grant for IHS to increase dental care access for schoolchildren. The grant is scheduled to appropriate $200,000 a year to IHS over the next four years, making the potential funding of the grant as high as $800,000. The grant will benefit over 500 East Hartford middle school students, over 200 elementary school students and 182 ninth and tenth grade students attending Connecticut River Academy Magnet High School at Goodwin College. “This grant will go a long way in helping IHS continue the fantastic work they do every day in providing dental health services to students in East Hartford,” Congressman Larson said. “The fact that they were one of only 12 applicants from across the country chosen for this award speaks volumes of the work that they do. Making sure that kids have access to necessary preventive care to keep them healthy should be one of our top priorities and I am proud that we are leading the way right here in East Hartford.” “This is a phenomenal opportunity to expand dental services to children in greatest need in a preventive, accessible, and cost-effective manner which incorporates the oral health education into their daily educational curricula through the schools,” said IHS President/CEO Ms. Deborah Poerio. “School Based Health Centers, as preventive health programs, provide the least threatening, and most comfortable environment for children to seek, and receive high quality medical, behavioral, and now, dental care, and have proven highly effective in reducing issues of morbidity." The grant will help IHS purchase new equipment that will allow them to better coordinate with outside providers. Additionally, IHS plans to begin integrating oral health education into the curriculum of East Hartford students. Earlier this year IHS applied for the grant through HHS and Congressman Larson wrote a letter of support on behalf of their application. ###
09.30.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement honoring the Jewish New Year, which begins tonight at sunset. “As Jewish families in the United States and around the world gather to celebrate Rosh Hashanah, I want to extend my warmest wishes to them all for the New Year. L'shana tovah --may you have a good year. “Rosh Hashanah is a time of prayer and joyful celebration. Combined with Yom Kippur next week, a day of reflection and repentance, the High Holidays are a time for families, communities and even nations to come together and rededicate themselves to overcoming differences and building a better future. In these times of economic hardship, it is important that we do all we can to make the New Year better for those who are struggling. “In that spirit, let us, the Congress, rededicate ourselves to working together for economic prosperity and a lasting peace for all. L'shana Tovah Tikatavu.”
09.28.2011	For more photos from Saturday’s event, click here. All photos courtesy of Tami Heileman, Department of Interior. This past Saturday, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) welcomed Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to Hartford to take a tour of Coltsville in his latest push to obtain National Historical Park designation for the facility. Joined by Governor Dannel Malloy, Mayor Pedro Segarra of Hartford and Senator Richard Blumenthal, the group impressed upon the Secretary the historical significance of Coltsville and the potential economic catalyst the project would be to the area. To watch a video of the press conference, please click on the image below or go here: https://youtu.be/E8M9W4Kop_E Over the past decade Congressman Larson has worked with elected officials past and present, as well as community activists to help Coltsville obtain a National Historical Park designation – the most recent action culminating in the Secretary’s trip to Hartford this past weekend. From the Q&A: Q: Can you discuss the challenges you will face in obtaining funding, should you get the designation? A: [Secretary Salazar] First of all there is no doubt that a fiscal cloud hangs over the nation in a very real way, this is a fiscal reality we must deal with. Second of all, with this particular site and all the work that has gone into it, including the study that has concluded that with $6.5 million in capital investment at $300,000 a year, we could operate this as a National Park. So, from my point of view, this is a great candidate for inclusion into the National Park System and we will work hard to make it happen even in these fiscal times[…] Below is a brief timeline of the Coltsville project: COLTSVILLE TIMELINE · September 24, 2011 – At Congressman Larson’s invitation, Secretary Salazar visits Coltsville Historic District and pledges support for Larson’s legislation to designate Coltsville as a National Historical Park. · July 12, 2011 – Congressman Larson and Senator Lieberman introduce Coltsville National Historical Park Act. · September 16, 2010 – House Natural Resources Committee passes Coltsville National Historical Park Act. · April 22, 2010 - Congressman Larson introduce initial legislation into the House to designate Coltsville as a National Historical Park. · October 14, 2008- Secretary of the Interior, Dirk Kempthorne, announces that Coltsville has been officially named a National Historic Landmark. · July 21, 2008- The National Park Service Advisory Board votes to approve Coltsville’s bid to become a national Historic Landmark. · December 5, 2007- Congressman Larson testifies in front of the National Park Service Commission in support of Coltsville’s designation as a National Historic Landmark. · October 20, 2004 – Congressman Larson, Senators Dodd and Lieberman send a letter in advance of the Public Scoping Meeting as part of the Coltsville Special Resource Study led by the National Park Service in support of Coltsville’s inclusion in the National Park System. · October 7, 2003 – President George W. Bush signs the Coltsville Study Act into law. · September 23, 2003 – The Coltsville Study Act, sponsored by Congressman Larson, passes the House of Representatives. · July 9, 2003- The Coltsville Study Act sponsored by Congressman Larson, passes the House Resources Committee. · April 8, 2003- National Park Service testifies in support of the Coltsville Study Act, sponsored by Congressman Larson. · January 30, 2003- Congressman Larson and Senators Dodd and Lieberman reintroduce the Coltsville Study Act which would study the possibility of including Hartford’s historic Coltsville property in the National Park System. · June 20, 2002 – Congressman Larson testifies in support of the Coltsville Study Act during a Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks. · May 15, 2002 – Congressman Larson, Senators Dodd and Lieberman introduce legislation calling for a Coltsville Study.
09.28.2011	HARTFORD – Today Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted a domestic violence roundtable discussion focused on the importance of reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which is set to expire at the end of the month. Enacted in 1994 to improve the way our country responds to domestic violence and sexual assault, VAWA established new federal crimes of interstate domestic violence and stalking, doubled penalties for repeat sex offenders, and sparked the passage of laws at the state level to protect victims. The bill also funds grant programs to help the victims of domestic abuse and sexual violence. Since the passage of the Violence Against Women Act in 1994, rates of domestic violence have decreased by over 50 percent. “These programs provide advocacy for people who would normally not come forward,” Congressman Larson said. “I am so proud of Connecticut’s efforts in regards to preventing domestic violence. Renewing VAWA is critical to the sustained success of these efforts and it must be a priority for Congress.” Larson’s roundtable discussion focused on how federal VAWA funds assist victims of domestic violence. Services funded include counseling, legal guidance for divorce procedures, restraining orders, assistance with custody procedures, alternative housing, and help ensuring safety. The discussion was led by Karen Jarmoc, interim Executive Director of the Connecticut Coalition Against Domestic Violence (CCADV) and Congressman Larson. Other panel members included staff from Greater Hartford Legal Aid, Inc. and Hartford Interval House. All three organizations benefit from the funds that are provided by VAWA to help victims of domestic violence. “Today’s roundtable underscores the critical need for VAWA reauthorization so that Connecticut’s comprehensive response to victims stays strongly in place,” said Jarmoc. “Connecticut has one of the most comprehensive domestic violence response programs in the nation. Without the renewal of VAWA, many of these programs will see detrimental effects.” Recently Congressman Larson was honored as a member of the “First 100,” an award presented by the CCADV to the first 100 men who showed a commitment to ending domestic violence in Connecticut. “I will continue to fight hard in Washington, not only for the renewal of VAWA, but in the fight to end to scourge of domestic violence as well,” said Congressman Larson. # # #
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced H.R. 12, President Obama’s American Jobs Act. The text of the bill is attached. Larson released the following statement: “The President has drafted a plan that is focused on what the 14 million Americans who are out of work know they need – the simple dignity of a job. He deserves a vote on his plan in as timely a fashion as possible because those 14 million Americans can’t wait the 14 months until the next election for this to be resolved.” # # #
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined with a bipartisan majority of the House this week to renew the Children’s Hospitals Graduate Medical Education (CHGME) program. The program, passed and signed into law in 1999, provides financial support to children’s hospitals that provide graduate level residency programs. The program helps hospitals offset costs of resident stipends, salaries, faculty salaries, overhead and other training-related costs. “Since its inception CHGME has had a tremendous impact on children’s healthcare in this country,” Congressman Larson said. “Not only does it provide increased care and attention to our community’s most vulnerable, but it helps hospitals continue to train the next generation of pediatricians and pediatric specialists. I am glad that the House moved forward in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize this important program.” Since the program’s inception it has reversed a decline the number of pediatric residents and resulted in an increase by 35 percent. There are currently 54 pediatric residents training in General Pediatrics at the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center. Last year the Connecticut Children’s Medical Center spent over $11 million in training pediatricians, with $3.4 million (or 32 percent) coming in CHGME funding. ###
09.21.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement today on the end of the U.S. Military's “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy: “I am very pleased to see ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ officially end today. For too long the policy has weakened our national security and undermined our principles as a country. “We would not have reached this point without the leadership of Senator Joe Lieberman. Senator Lieberman fought to do the right thing for our men and women in uniform and he deserves much of the credit for ending this policy.“We have the most formidable military in the world and today’s action makes us even stronger.” ###
09.14.2011	WASHINGTON -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) is an original co-sponsor of a bill introduced this week that will provide relief to farmers who have been negatively affected by Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee. “While a lot of attention has rightfully been paid to the significant damage to property owners and small businesses throughout the state, we cannot forget the affect that Hurricane Irene and Tropical Storm Lee have had on our community farms,” Congressman Larson said. “Many farmers have lost crops and livestock and sustained significant damage during these storms. This bill will go a long way in helping farmers recoup some of the losses they have suffered.” The bill, HR 2905, provides a temporary waiver for farmers who may not have crop insurance or be part of the Noninsured Crop Disaster Assistance Program (NAP) so that they may access federal relief programs including: Emergency Assistance for Livestock, Honey Bees, and Farm-Raised Fish (ELAP); Supplemental Revenue Assistance Payments Program (SURE) Tree Assistance Program (TAP). Farmers who want to seek this waiver will have to subsequently purchase crop insurance or enter into NAP by the state deadline of the specific commodity they seek assistance for. “This bill takes a practical approach to removing hurdles for farmers who need relief from these unprecedented storms,” said Congressman Larson. ###
09.11.2011	HARTFORD - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement on the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks: “September 11, 2001 is to a whole generation what December 7, 1941 was to an earlier generation. Ten years later what must be underscored is how during the days, weeks and months following the attack we came together as a nation. “It was very heartening today to see President Obama and President Bush together. The aftermath of the 9/11 attacks was President Bush’s finest hour - an hour that saw us put labels behind us and come together. “Today with men and women still serving abroad, the threat of terrorism still very real and a troubling economy at home that has 14 million Americans out of work, we should follow the example of the survivors of 9/11 and the families of the victims who have never forgotten and moved forward in unison. “We must follow their example and pull together as a country and continue to move forward together.”
09.09.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s speech on jobs tonight: "President Obama is absolutely right. It's time for Congress to act and act now. "There was nothing in the President's speech tonight that Congress could not consider tomorrow. "Frankly, the American people need jobs and can't wait.” ###
09.08.2011	Calls for redoubled federal disaster response in wake of week’s flooding HARTFORD - Recognizing the scope of damage for farmers and our communities, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) redoubled his call today for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to continue to respond strongly to the ongoing flooding across Connecticut and the entire east coast this week in the aftermath of Hurricane Irene. This morning Congressman Larson met with FEMA Administrator William Craig Fugate and was assured that FEMA is responding to this week's flooding under the existing Hurricane Irene disaster declaration while they determine if this week’s flooding requires a separate disaster declaration. "This latest round of flooding has caused incredible property damage throughout the First Congressional District and beyond, underscoring the need to get relief to our farmers whose crops have been washed away and destroyed over the last two weeks," Congressman Larson said. The USDA has directed the Farm Service Agency (FSA) to work directly with the Connecticut Farm Bureau to help the agriculture community recover. The Connecticut Farm Bureau has since directed all local farm bureaus throughout the state to collect information on storm damage and report back to them. Residents who need to report property damage may do so by calling FEMA at 1-800-621-FEMA or by going online to https://www.disasterassistance.gov/. Farmers in need of reporting damage may download forms from the CT Department of Agriculture at www.CTGrown.gov or call (860) 713-2503 if they have any questions. Residents of the First Congressional District can always contact Congressman Larson's office at (860) 278-8888 for assistance too. ###
09.02.2011	WASHINGTON – House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (CT) introduced nonpartisan legislation today intended to give the nation’s top priority – job creation and economic growth – the same path forward as deficit reduction in Congress. “Every member of Congress – Democrat and Republican alike – heard the same thing from their constituents over the last month: they’re tired of the partisanship and fighting in Washington and just want Congress to get things straight so they can get back to work,” said Larson. “The Super Committee, with its deadlines and triggers, has a unique opportunity to overcome the recent gridlock in Congress to make that happen.” Today, Larson introduced three measures that the Super Committee may choose to pursue that would provide different paths to the same goal – reducing unemployment and addressing our debt: A bill to amend the mission of the Deficit Super Committee, to require the Members to develop both a deficit reduction plan and a job creation plan. A bill to amend the mission of the Deficit Super Committee and add four additional members – one from each party in each chamber – to allow for the extra work being undertaken. A bill to create a parallel Super Committee to focus on jobs, under the same terms as the Deficit Super Committee. “As many economists have pointed out, reducing the unemployment directly reduces our deficit. In fact, by returning the nation to full employment, we could cut the deficit by 25 percent. So the incentive here is obvious: putting America back to work and reducing the deficit,” Larson added. “But there is even more at stake. This is an historic moment that reflects directly on our 21st century democracy and America's ability to lead the free world. Amending the existing law to incorporate economic growth and job creation and subjecting them to the same deadlines and a trigger, would restore confidence to the American public and global markets and show that we can come together to get America back to work and grow our economy.”
08.30.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) spent the past week talking about manufacturing and small business growth with local businesses and state officials. With one more trip still scheduled for next week, here is a breakdown of the past few days: By the Numbers: 7 events that on manufacturing and/or small business 6 first district small businesses visited 4 first district manufacturing small businesses visited 1 conference held featuring large and small manufacturers, economists and elected officials Day-by-Day: Tuesday, August 25 The day began with Congressman Larson being joined by Dr. Lei Chen of the American Institute for Economic Research, Dr. Fred Carstensen of the Connecticut Center for Economic Analysis, Elliot Ginsberg, CEO of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology and Thomas Mayes, Vice President Manufacturing Programs – Commercial Engines at Pratt & Whitney for a conference on the state of Manufacturing in Connecticut at Manchester Community College. Following the conference Congressman Larson visited with the management of a number of small businesses in Windsor and East Hartford including: Infinity Fuel Cell Inc., Bart’s Drive-In Restaurant, Horst Engineering and Signal Services, Inc. Wednesday, August 26 Congressman Larson continued his jobs and small business tour Wednesday with a trip to Supramagnetics in Plantsville. The Congressman toured the facility and spoke with Supramagnetics President Dr. Leszek Motowildo about how the federal government could best work to help promote successful manufacturing businesses like his. Thursday, August 27 Congressman Larson wrapped up week one of his small business/manufacturing tour by meeting with small business leaders of Hartford and announcing, along with the Small Business Administration, a grant of $500,000 to the Hartford Economic Development Corporation (HEDCo). Along with the grant money HEDCo also received “microlending” status from the SBA, which will allow them to better fund small businesses throughout the city. The announcement took place at the Living Word Imprints on Homestead Avenue, which specializes in clothing printing, embroidering and alterations. Reactions: “Manufacturing and the entrepreneurial spirit of small businesses are part of our DNA here in the First Congressional District. This week has been extremely informative and eye-opening for me. The work that these businesses are doing is revolutionary and as a government we should be doing everything we can to foster their growth, not impede it with cuts to federal programs that have been helpful in their development. As our economy emerges from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, I am confident that it is businesses like the ones we visited that will lead the recovery.” - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) “Congressman Larson’s continuing efforts to support and strengthen clean energy development and manufacturing in Connecticut is important to Connecticut’s jobs and our nation’s economy and defense. His call to action, bringing together small and large job creators and federal and state agencies, will foster growth of technology and manufacturing in Connecticut. This coordinated effort will help keep Connecticut growing, our nation strong and will increase our share of world markets.” - William Smith, President, Infinity Fuel Cell Inc. “We are extremely excited to enter into this expanded relationship with the SBA and to have the additional resources available to assist micro enterprises in Hartford. The efforts of Congressman Larson and his staff, on our behalf, were a key factor in securing these funds for our community. An opportunity to access capital could not come at a more opportune time for micro enterprises in our community.” - Samuel C. Hamilton, Executive Director, HEDCo
08.30.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was joined by members of the small business community today in announcing the Small Business Administration (SBA)’s decision to accept HEDCo (Hartford Economic Development Corporation) Inc.’s request to become an intermediary lender under the organizations Microloan Program. The Hartford Economic Development Corporation works to stimulate the local economy by promoting small business and providing loans to emerging companies. Thanks to the decision by the SBA, HEDCo will now become an intermediary lender under their Microloan Program. The agreement with SBA also makes HEDCo eligible for an initial SBA loan of $500,000. Since FY 2009 the SBA has increased lending to the state of Connecticut by 119% for $177 million in new lending. Additionally, the SBA has increased the number of microloans over that time from 715,000 to 1.7 million. “Small businesses are the cornerstone of our economy and when they are thriving, so does the job creation needed to get our country back on track,” Congressman Larson said. “I am very excited that the SBA has acknowledged the outstanding work that HEDCo does and has approved their request to become a part of their Microloan Program. Additionally, the generous loan of $500,000 from SBA to HEDCo will go a long way in helping the group continue their important work in promoting small business growth in our region.” “We are extremely excited to enter into this expanded relationship with the SBA and to have the additional resources available to assist micro enterprises in Hartford,” said HEDCo Executive Director Samuel C. Hamilton. “The efforts of Congressman Larson and his staff, on our behalf, were a key factor in securing these funds for our community. An opportunity to access capital could not come at a more opportune time for micro enterprises in our community.” The most recent numbers, from 2008, show that there are over 327,000 small businesses in Connecticut. ###
08.22.2011	HARTFORD -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) awarded West Hartford’s Eric Pagett with bronze and silver Congressional Medals this morning in recognition of his commitment to enhancing the quality of life within his community and beyond. “Eric Pagett represents the best qualities of the first congressional district’s youth,” Congressman Larson said. “His tireless work helping others made him an obvious and much-deserving recipient of a gold, silver and bronze congressional medal. I am so proud of Eric and am confident that he will go on and achieve great things.” The Congressional Award is a non-partisan, non-competitive and voluntary program open to young men and women aged 14-23 that looks to recognize excellence in the areas of voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness and expedition/exploration. After earning a Congressional gold Medal in June at a ceremony in Washington, today Eric was awarded silver and bronze medals for his hundreds of hours he volunteered in his community mentoring a special-needs student and raising money and doing work for students in Grenada. “The Congressional Award is a great program for youth to engage with,” Pagett said. “It’s not a traditional thing for high school and college students to participate in. It doesn’t take extraordinary effort, it’s just ordinary people doing simple things to help others that makes it extraordinary.” This year 246 young men and women received gold medals – Eric was the only recipient from Connecticut. Eric is 21 years old and entering his senior year at Principia College in St. Louis, Missouri.
08.10.2011	(Hartford, CT) – Senators Joe Lieberman, Richard Blumenthal, and Congressman John Larson today announced a $358,333 federal grant for Charter Oak Community Health Center in Hartford. This week is National Community Health Center week. The award, made possible by the Affordable Care Act, is a part of a $28.8 million investment by the United States Department of Health and Human Services that will boost 67 community health centers across the country and establish new health care sites that will serve an additional 286,000 patients. “Charter Oak Health Center has made a difference for so many in our community, and I’m glad that these funds will help Charter Oak to continue its vital mission of providing affordable and quality care to individuals and families in the great city of Hartford,” Lieberman said. Said Senator Blumenthal, visiting Charter Oak today, “These resources for Charter Oak Health Center will support the preventive services that keep our community healthy and ultimately save taxpayers money on emergency health care costs. I admire our community health centers across Connecticut that provide a vital service to hundreds of thousands of patients and remain on the front lines of our health care system, providing high-quality affordable care that patients need and deserve.” “The services provided by the Charter Oak Community Health Center are critical to the well-being of residents throughout the city of Hartford,” Congressman Larson said. “The funding in this grant will help the men and women of Charter Oak continue to provide the top rate care we have all come to expect from them. Whether it is removing barriers to protection or adequately funding community health centers like Charter Oak, the Affordable Care Act continues to help create a healthier America.” Community health centers in Connecticut received over 1.5 million visits and served over 300,000 patients last year – one third of their patients are children. The 13 community health centers across Connecticut provide a range of essential care including immunizations, prenatal care, primary care services, and behavioral and dental care in regions where care is most limited. # # #
08.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Connecticut members of Congress, John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Jim Himes (CT-04) and Chris Murphy (CT-05) touted a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) today showing that millions of Americans and hundreds of thousands of Connecticut Medicare beneficiaries have taken advantage of provisions in the Affordable Care Act to receive better care and save money. “Every day more and more seniors are benefiting from the Affordable Care Act,” Congressman Larson said. “Already hundreds of thousands of Connecticut residents have taken advantage of Medicare’s free preventive services like mammograms, cancer screenings, and annual wellness visits. Thousands of others have saved money thanks to a 50 percent discount on prescription drugs for beneficiaries that hit the donut hole. As new provisions of last year’s landmark healthcare reform law continue to go into effect, more Americans will see better care and decreased health care costs.” “Connecticut has the third-highest utilization rate of wellness visits in the entire country, which is a testament to their benefit,” said Congressman Courtney. “Doctors across our state are diagnosing cases of cancer that they would not have in the past. Earlier detection means a greater chance for recovery and significantly lower treatment costs. The Affordable Care Act has already helped seniors with prescription drug costs, allowed young people to remain on their parents’ health plans and made pre-existing condition discrimination a thing of the past. The more people learn about this law, the more they like it.” “These preventive care measures are a critical part of the Affordable Care Act’s goal of transforming our health care system, expanding access to care, and improving Americans’ quality of life,” Congresswoman DeLauro said. “Hundreds of thousands of seniors in Connecticut have already benefitted from these services, as well as the closing of the prescription drug ‘donut hole,’ and that number will continue to grow as more of the law comes into effect. The Affordable Care Act is living up to its promise—reforming our health care system and ensuring that future generations of Americans will lead healthier lives.” “Helping seniors manage out-of-control prescription costs and gain access to free preventive care was one of the biggest accomplishments of health care reform,” said Congressman Himes. “These new numbers prove that these changes are helping hundreds of thousands of Connecticut residents. We must continue our work to improve the Medicare program for those that rely on it every day. ” “The Affordable Care Act is improving Medicare for over 100,000 seniors in the Fifth District alone, providing free preventive and wellness care, improving primary and coordinated care, and enhancing nursing home care,” said Congressman Murphy. “I’ve talked to seniors all across my district who are already feeling the benefits this law ensures, and more and more Connecticut seniors will see costs go down and care improve as more components of the Affordable Care Act come online.” According to the report, 17 million individuals with Medicare have received free preventive services this year and 900,000 Medicare beneficiaries have received a 50 percent discount on their brand-name drugs for a total out-of-pocket savings of $461 million. In addition, over 1 million Medicare beneficiaries have taken advantage of the free Annual Wellness Visit provided by the Affordable Care Act. Locally, 239,017 Medicare beneficiaries in Connecticut have accessed free preventive services, 32,128 have taken advantage of their free Annual Wellness Visit, while 9,642 beneficiaries have saved an average of $535 this year in Part D prescription drug relief. Residents interested in taking advantage of free preventive services or finding out how to access their free Annual Wellness Visit are urged to contact their local member of Congress or visit: https://www.medicare.gov/share-the-health/. ###
08.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today after meeting with FAA engineers and architects who have been furloughed because of the GOP delay in reauthorizing the agency: “Meeting today with some of the 74,000 Americans who won’t get paid for the rest of the summer because the GOP has refused to do what Congress has done 20 times over the last decade really underscores the urgency of this situation. “As one of my constituents recently wrote me, Congress has left all too many Americans facing the “dark abyss of uncertainty,” when it comes to how they will pay their bills and support their families. “If the Republicans in Congress really care about jobs and the economy, as they claim to, Speaker Boehner should call the House back, end the hypocrisy, demonstrate some good will, settle this issue, and put 74,000 Americans back to work.” # # #
08.03.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today marking the one-year anniversary of the Hartford Distributors shooting in Manchester that killed eight men. “A year ago today, eight men left their homes with every expectation of returning to their families that evening. A senseless and cowardly act took them from us. “This horrific experience is seared in the memory of the families and employees of Hartford Distributors and of our entire community. “Today, we remember how precious each moment is that we spend with our loved ones and our compassion and prayers go out to those families who lost their loved ones. “Throughout this difficult time, the leadership of the Hollander family and the employees of Hartford Distributors has served as an example of how people come together during a tragedy and emerge stronger and with a deeper appreciation of that is important in life.” ###
08.01.2011	WASHINGTON - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the vote tonight to raise the debt ceiling: ?"President Obama is the first president in our history to have our nation’s fiscal health held hostage by an ideological minority. Elections have consequences, which we’ve seen all too clearly over the last month. In the face of a minority who insisted on their crusade to end Medicare and balance the budget on the backs of working families and seniors, President Obama has been Horatio at the bridge. ?"While I voted twice recently to raise the debt ceiling and would not have allowed the nation to default, I cannot explain in good conscience to seniors, to students, and to working families why it is that the bond sellers always get paid while they – the heart of our nation - continue to be squeezed. ? ?"That’s why I cast a no vote tonight. ?"What otherwise has been a very difficult time was made hopeful by the appearance of Gabrielle Giffords on the Floor and her amazing courage." ###
08.01.2011	Washington - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Republican debt bill that was passed by the House with no Democratic support, and was rejected by the Senate tonight: "At a time when the nation is crying out to Congress to create jobs and to maintain our economic security an ideological and manufactured crisis is unfolding before us. "Instead of passing the legislation necessary to ensure the nation can pay its bills, as we did eighteen times for Ronald Reagan, and seven times for George W. Bush, Republicans have taken our economy hostage, demanding that we end Medicare and slash services for working families, while protecting billions in tax giveaways for oil companies and Wall Street. And now, with the economy teetering on the brink, they continue to waste time with partisan theater. "Maybe now that the Senate has voted we can move forward with a bipartisan plan to prevent a default and then focus on the issue that matters most to working families - jobs." ###
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded President Obama’s announcement today of an historic agreement between 13 major automakers to increase fuel economy to 54.5 miles per gallon for cars and light-trucks by 2025.“At a time when Americans are facing rising gas prices and Connecticut residents are suffering from the highest costs in the nation, today’s news is certainly welcome,” Congressman Larson said. “Increasing fuel efficiency will not only save Americans money at the pump, but also help our country end its dangerous dependence on foreign oil, and help spur job growth through the creation of advanced manufacturing jobs across the country.” The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) estimates that Americans will save $1.7 trillion in fuel costs by 2025, resulting in annual savings of $8,000 per vehicle. The move will also result in saving a total of 12 billion barrels of oil by 2025, cutting U.S. oil consumption by 2.2 million barrels a day. Thirteen automakers - Ford, GM, Chrysler, BMW, Honda, Hyundai, Jaguar/Land Rover, Kia, Mazda, Mitsubishi, Nissan, Toyota and Volvo - have signed on to the agreement, accounting for over 90 percent of the vehicles sold in the United States. “President Obama and each of these respected companies should be very proud of today’s agreement,” Larson added. “As we continue to explore alternative energy sources such as natural gas, electric and hydrogen fuel cells, moving to improve fuel efficiency offers an important bridge that will help relieve the burden of high gas prices on our household economies.” ###
07.29.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) Governor Dannel Malloy, and representatives from the healthcare industry celebrated the 45th anniversary of the country’s first Medicare payment Friday morning. Due to voting in Washington, Congressman Larson participated in the discussion with a taped message while the Governor and healthcare leaders celebrated at Hartford Hospital. Medicare was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 30, 1965. The first Medicare benefit payment was issued by Aetna to Hartford Hospital on July 9, 1966. In addition to Governor Malloy, recently named President and CEO-elect of Hartford Hospital Jeffrey Flaks, President of Aetna Medicare Gary Thomas and President of the Connecticut Chapter of the Alliance for Retired Americans Kevin Lynch participated in the celebration. “Forty-five years ago our community played a major role in the history of Medicare by participating in the first beneficiary payment in the entire country,” Congressman Larson said. “Today as some in Washington continue to take aim at a program that has provided healthcare for hundreds of millions of Americans over the years, I am pleased to be joined by so many leaders in reaffirming our support for Medicare. I want to thank the governor, Hartford Hospital’s Jeff Flaks, Aetna’s Gary Thomas for being here today to participate in this celebration. I also want to thank Aetna and Hartford Health Care CEOs Mark Bertolini and Elliot Joseph for their commitment and innovation in the delivery of healthcare to Medicare recipients.” “Medicare stands out as one of the country’s most important initiatives—a commitment to the health and well-being of our citizens,” said Governor Malloy. “Healthcare and a better quality of life for seniors and the most vulnerable among us is part of ensuring the strength of the national safety net and should not be a bargaining chip for Washington. I am pleased to join healthcare and consumer representatives at this anniversary celebration.” “We’re delighted to have Governor Malloy here today and hear from Congressman Larson as we mark this historic event,” Flaks said. “For 157 years, Hartford Hospital has been serving and caring for the community, especially the underserved. The 45th anniversary of the very first Medicare check issued in United States was a momentous occasion - the beginning of ensuring care for the elderly. These patients come to Hartford Hospital now, and they will come in the future. We welcome them and always will.” “Aetna is proud to have played a leadership role in launching the Medicare program, and our commitment to making the system better is stronger than ever,” said Gary Thomas, president, Aetna Medicare. “We are leading the way to improved health outcomes for beneficiaries while lowering costs for them and the government by investing in Health IT, effective care coordination, disease management, and newer, comprehensive, population-based models of care like Patient Centered Medical Homes and Accountable Care Organizations. We hope our continued partnership with Medicare will deliver even better results in the future.” “For the past 13 years, Rep. John Larson has been an eloquent and forceful spokesperson for older Americans, younger Americans and mentally or physically impaired Americans,” said President of the Connecticut Alliance for Retired Americans Kevin Lynch. “For the 571,000 Connecticut citizens on Medicare, for the 525,000 residents on Medicaid, for the 622,000 who receive Social Security checks the Connecticut Alliance for retired Americans says, thank you.” There are 47.7 million Medicare beneficiaries in the United States with Connecticut being home to 571,000. ###
07.29.2011	WASHINGTON – House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (CT) made the following remarks on the Floor this afternoon during the debate on Speaker Boehner’s proposed short term default act: _____________________________________________________________________________________ > > Watch the Speech < < “Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Mr. Levin. “At this very moment the whole world is watching in on the United States Congress. It is a sad day for the United States Congress. We in America, the preeminent military, economic and cultural leaders in the world, are governing like we're a third world country. It is a sad time for this body. It is a sad time for this body that we cannot come together. Sad is the American public who looks in at this and recognizes that it's theater, except that it's become the theater of the absurd. In a frail recovery where Americans are already overburdened, what we have in front of us is a manufactured ideological crisis. “Eighteen times the debt ceiling was raised for Ronald Reagan, eight times for George Bush, because they would never stand in this body to see a default on the full faith and credit of the United States. As the world looks in and we default on a global economy and we default and march towards defaulting on a national economy, the most ruinous thing is that we are defaulting on household economies. “What this body should be focusing on is dealing with this deficit and focusing, as Mr. Becerra said, on the real default that's taken place in Congress, the lack of job creation, the need to put people back to work so that we can restore the dignity that only comes when people are able to sit across their dining table and look at one another and know that they have the dignity that comes from a job. We need not go through this ideological hostage situation. Why are we holding the American people hostage? Let's put America back to work. We’re a better nation; we’re a better body than that.” # # #
07.28.2011	Flights Scheduled after July 23, 2011 are eligible for tax refund due to temporary lapse in FAA legislation WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced this afternoon that as a result of a lapse in Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) authorization, the federal government has temporarily stopped collecting certain taxes on plane tickets. A recent announcement from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) indicates that if passengers purchased tickets prior to July 23rd for travel on or after that date they may be eligible for a refund from that airline. Additionally, if the airline in question will not provide their customers with a refund, the IRS is poised to issue one at a later date. Until Congress acts to reauthorize the FAA, the following taxes will not be collected: The 7.5 percent tax on the base ticket price; The domestic segment tax of $3.70 per person per segment (a single takeoff and single landing); The international travel facilities tax of $16.30 per person for flights that begin or end in the U.S., or $8.20 per person for a flight that begins or ends in Alaska or Hawaii; and The 6.25 percent tax on the amount paid for transporting property by air.“While I am hopeful that Congress will be able to come together to pass legislation that will renew FAA authorization, it is important for consumers to realize that if they have overpaid for airline tickets there is recourse available,” Congressman Larson said. Constituents that have further questions about this program are urged to callthe Congressman’s office at (860) 278-8888 or by visiting the IRS frequently asked questions page on ticket tax refunds located here.
07.28.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will join Governor Dannel Malloy and leadership from Hartford Hospital, Aetna and retiree advocates Friday in a celebration to mark the 45th anniversary of the first Medicare payment. Medicare was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 30, 1965. The first Medicare benefit payment was issued by The Aetna Insurance Company to Hartford Hospital on July 9, 1966. Representing Hartford Hospital and Aetna at the event will be Hartford Hospital’s newly promoted CEO Jeffrey Flaks and President of Aetna Medicare Gary Thomas. Additionally, Kevin Lynch of the Connecticut chapter of the Alliance for Retired Americans will be in attendance to discuss the importance of Medicare to the state’s seniors. The event is open to the public and all are welcome to attend. WHO: Congressman John Larson (CT-01) Governor Dannel Malloy Jeffrey Flaks – Hartford Hospital Gary Thomas – Aetna Kevin Lynch – Alliance for Retired Americans WHAT: Larson, Malloy and healthcare leaders to hold celebration of the 45th Anniversary First Medicare Payment WHERE: Hartford Hospital (In front of the main entrance) 80 Seymour Street Hartford, CT 06106 WHEN: Friday, July 29, 2011 – 11:45 a.m.
07.28.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) slammed Republican leadership in the House of Representatives today as they continued to debate the FY12 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which includes a plan to cut hundreds of millions of dollars from the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds (SRFs). The Clean Water and Drinking Water SRFs provide aid that goes directly to the states and localities to fund water infrastructure projects that aim to protect drinking water and better manage wastewater and pollution runoff. “Americans want to know that the water they drink is safe and that their wastewater is disposed of in a healthy and environmentally-friendly manner,” Congressman Larson said. “House Republicans, in an effort to appease their Tea Party base, continue to propose drastic cuts that will cause our federal government to be less able to perform critical public safety tasks. At a time when America should be reinvesting in its infrastructure and exploring new, green technology these cuts serve as a blow to an already overstressed system.” Under the proposed bill, the Clean Water SRF was cut from $1.5 billion in FY2011 to $689 million in FY2012. Alternately, the Drinking Water SRF was cut from $963 million in FY2011 to $829 million in FY2012. If this bill becomes law, Connecticut will see nearly $10 million less in funding for the Clean Water SRF and $1.3 million less in Drinking Water SRF funding from FY11 levels.
07.27.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Senators Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) and Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) announced today that the Department of Veterans Affairs awarded Community Renewal Team, Inc., a $349,389 grant to help low-income veterans and their families in Hartford, New Haven and Middlesex counties obtain and keep affordable housing. The aid – part of a new Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) Program – will go to private, non-profit and consumer cooperatives that provide support to low-income veteran families who need help finding or keeping permanent housing. “The brave men and women who have put their lives on the line to serve our country in wars past and present deserve the best support network possible throughout their lives if they fall on hard times,” Congressman Larson said. “It is truly a national shame that those who have sacrificed so much for us experience homelessness. Throughout the First Congressional District and state there are a number of groups that are doing terrific work to ensure no veteran goes without a roof over their head. This grant recognizes the hard work of Community Renewal Team in East Hartford and will help them continue to serve those who have served us.” “It is unacceptable that any of our veterans, who have already given so much for our country, would also have to suffer the hardship of homelessness,” Lieberman said. “Thanks to the Community Renewal Team, and with help from this grant, we are helping to ensure that Connecticut’s veterans have the sense of security that they so rightfully deserve.” “While we can never fully repay our servicemen and women for their sacrifice and service to our country, we have a responsibility to them to provide them with the resources necessary to adjust to daily life upon returning from active duty, particularly in the difficult search for affordable housing,” Senator Blumenthal said. “In the face of an already cumbersome housing market, this grant will serve a much needed purpose of helping our brave service men and women find homes.” Last March the lawmakers wrote a letter VA Secretary Eric Shinseki urging the SSVF to consider Community Renewal Team, Inc. for grant assistance. Earlier this year Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Tammy Duckworth visited Hartford to discuss the VA’s plan to eliminate homelessness amongst veterans. ###
07.27.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that three of Hartford’s major historical attractions will receive over $700,000 in combined grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). The Harriet Beecher Stowe Center, Mark Twain House and Wadsworth Atheneum all met the NEH’s highly competitive criteria of cultivating humanities research, education and preservation. “Hartford’s incredible history of contributing to the American story is one of the major features that attract tourists to our city every year,” Congressman Larson said. “I am so happy to see the NEH acknowledge the terrific work that the Stowe Center, Twain House and Wadsworth Atheneum do for our community and country every day. Today’s announcement and subsequent grant funding will help ensure that current and future generations understand the role that their community has played in shaping American history.” The three institutions competed for grant funding with facilities from all over the country. The breakdown of grant money by institution is: · Harriet Beecher Stowe Center - $235,000 · Mark Twain House - $179,683 · Wadsworth Atheneum - $325,000 Last month Congressman Larson hosted members of the Congressional Black Caucus at each of the sites during the course of a weekend celebration of Harriet Beecher Stowe’s 200th birthday. ###
07.27.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement following President Obama’s address to the nation tonight: “President Obama was right tonight – this is about what’s fair. Most Americans don’t understand how we can ask seniors to pay more for Medicare before we ask corporate jet owners and oil companies to give up their billions in tax breaks. And most Americans don’t understand how can we ask a student to pay more for college before we ask hedge fund managers to stop paying taxes at a lower rate than their secretaries. Americans want fairness – and the Republican plans for dealing with our debt simply aren’t fair. “Democrats are committed to ensuring that our nation meets its obligations by working toward a long-term plan to reduce the deficit, create jobs, grow the economy and strengthen the middle class – without asking working families and our seniors to shoulder the entire burden. “As leaders, we owe it to the American people to end the political posturing, address this manufacture crisis facing our nation, and then remain at the negotiating table to focus on the top priorities for American families: jobs and fiscal security.” # # #
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Saturday, July 23rd, marks the 200th day of Republican control of the House with no jobs agenda to get America back to work. Democrats have an alternative: the Make It In America plan. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement: “It’s been 200 days of Republican control of the House and they still haven’t focused on creating jobs – insisting instead that we can cut our way to prosperity. “They’ve already cut funding for investments that put people to work – like improving our roads and schools – as well as aid to states and funding for the programs that help families struggling to make ends meet in this recession; all while protecting billions of dollars in tax breaks for oil companies and Wall Street. The result is clear: corporate profits are soaring, but jobs are not. “We should be out-building, out-educating, and out-innovating the rest of the world. That’s why Democrats want to Make It In America again. We should be focused on ways Congress can help our economy grow and put people back to work. “We know we have to deal with our deficit and get our economy back in order – but the best way to do that is for Americans to get to work Making It In America again. “It’s time for the Republican leadership to stop the political theater and work with us to focus on what’s most important to American families: jobs and fiscal security.” # # #
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON – After blocking Elizabeth Warren for Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) Chief earlier this week, GOP leadership in the House of Representatives again voted to weaken the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act on the one-year anniversary of its signing into law. This afternoon Congressman John Larson (CT-01) again slammed Republicans for siding with Wall Street over consumers. Thanks to Dodd-Frank, Americans have a new advocate – the Consumer CFPB - to protect consumers from the abusive practices that contributed to the financial collapse of 2008. Under the GOP bill, the CFPB will be hamstrung in their ability to hold big banks accountable and ensure American consumers get a fair deal on financial products including credit cards and home mortgages. “Republicans must choose whose side they’re on,” Congressman Larson said. “Will they stand with the American people who deserve an opportunity to make financial decisions based on fair and honest information – without hidden fees or sudden interest rate changes? Or will they stand with big banks and Republican leaders who continue to protect massive tax breaks for Wall Street executives while at the same time are asking Americans to give up Medicare benefits? Wall Street reform does a lot to help consumers, but those reforms won’t work if we don’t let the cops patrol the beat.” Wall Street Reform and the CFPB provide American families with a measure of security against abusive behavior – including hidden credit card fees, deceptive fine print and interest rate hikes. Since its establishment, the Bureau has worked to create a consumer complaint process, make it easier for Americans to combat abusive products, make credit card fees more understandable, and protect service members. Unfortunately, Congressional Republicans continue to stand on the side of big banks, who worry that consumer protections may hurt their profit margins. Just this morning, during an interview on Dodd-Frank, Republican Chairman Spencer Bachus (AL-06) of the House Committee on Financial Services expressed the majority’s view saying, “[…]we do worry about a consumer protection agency whose sole goal is to benefit consumers.” The Republican bill (H.R. 1315) would undermine the ability of the Bureau to protect consumers by creating significant barriers to its efficient operation. It would replace its director with a five-member commission, increasing the probability of gridlock; enable another agency to block new protections; and leave consumer protections up to the political whims of the Senate. ###
07.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Today’s AAA report indicating that gas prices in Connecticut are the highest in the lower 48 states is no surprise to Connecticut families who face real pain at the pump every time they fill up. To help reduce gas prices for consumers in Connecticut – and across the country – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) again implored Republicans in Congress to stop working to block new powers under last year’s Wall Street Reform legislation to crack down on excessive and abusive oil speculation. “It’s an unfortunate coincidence that as we mark the one-year anniversary of the signing of Wall Street Reform into law, AAA released a report indicating Connecticut has overtaken California as the home to the highest gas prices in the lower 48 states,” Congressman Larson said. “We have heard time and again from financial experts and industry leaders that excessive and abusive oil speculation is causing consumers pain at the pump. Yet, Republicans in Congress continue to turn the other way and delay the implementation of provisions from Wall Street Reform that are designed to rein in speculators and save consumers money. It’s time we put the American people before speculators and Big Oil.” In addition to delaying the implementation of Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) provisions aimed at preventing abusive oil speculation, Republicans recently voted to cut $30 million from the group’s budget. According to an April 2011 analysis by Goldman Sachs, unregulated speculation adds over $20 per barrel to the price of oil. Additionally, since 1990 the number of oil speculators has more than doubled with their percentage of the market growing from 30 percent then to nearly 70 percent today. Last May five oil speculators were charged with manipulating the markets during the height of 2008’s record gas prices. Additionally during a recent Senate hearing on oil tax subsidies, Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson admitted that a barrel of oil should cost $60-$70 based solely on supply and demand. In addition to supporting President Obama’s decision to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, Congressman Larson also supports other steps to cut energy costs for Americans: · Adopting a “use it or lose it” policy for oil companies sitting on untapped oil fields. · Creating an independent inspector general to oversee the oil industry. · Fully fund the CFTC so it can monitor for excessive and abusive oil speculation. · Ending taxpayer funded subsidies for Big Oil ###
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) made the following statement on the House Floor today, calling for Congress to focus on the main priority of American families - jobs and fiscal security – to relieve what one constituent called “an abyss of dark uncertainty”: >>Watch the Statement Here<< I want to start, first of all, by talking about the tenure of debate in this chamber. Historically, we’ve had great debates in this chamber. I think that the Speaker of the House, John Boehner, is an honorable man, who cares deeply about this institution, and I think on both sides of the isle we have very intelligent people who care passionately about their beliefs. We have a nation that’s in the midst of the worst recession since the great depression. It prevails on us as Americans to come together and face the problems that our nation is currently dealing with. You heard Representative Chu mention it earlier—Ronald Reagan [increased the debt limit to prevent a default] at that time with a Democratic Speaker Tip O’Neill. He did so by appealing to both chambers about the need to come together facing the daunting reality of defaulting for the first time on the country’s full faith and credit — and the impact that that would have on the global economy, on the nation’s economy, but I dare say more importantly on one’s household economy. And from my perspective as a Member here and from going home and listening to constituents, I think that’s the most important thing—it’s their household economies that are hanging in the balance here. Washington can often times provide great theater and great back and forth. But we do not want this to become the theater of the absurd as our constituents look on in the pain and agony of being out of work and wondering whether or not their government is going to be there for them. So, I hope that we’re able to pass a clean debt ceiling as Ronald Reagan did seventeen times. The same kind of thing that was afforded Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush seven times most recently. So that we can get on with the concerns that we care deeply about. And whether its dealing with the national debt and dealing with the issues of spending, and making cuts that will strategically grow the economy, or whether its dealing with investing in the American people and making sure that revenues that come in do so to put America to work – like the creation of an infrastructure bank funded by the private and public sectors working together to create those much needed jobs – but essentially putting America back to work. I recently received a letter from one of my constituents, and I think this sums up the feeling of America. I want to read her words, because they tell the story of all too many Americans: “I'm worried, afraid for myself and all in my situation, and saddened. If I still have not been hired to work in the next few weeks, I will lose the financial ability to live in a room or an apartment and will lose the parts of my life that literally had to be placed in storage, most notable my family photos of my deceased parents, of my children, due to lack of income or savings to pay the rental fees. I have no one who will take me in or can afford to do this.” She went on to say: “How can you not agree that this is comparable to a natural disaster when individual lives are stake and left as if to be swallowed by an abyss of dark uncertainty?” These are the people of our country who we are sworn to serve. This debate is important on the Floor. The debt ceiling could be lifted tomorrow, but the pain and agony of the American people are stated more eloquently by the people who are actually suffering. And when she says, ‘to be swallowed up by an abyss of dark uncertainty,’ that is a moral obligation for us. And rather than talk about staying here over the weekend to make sure we deal with the debt ceiling, and all the machinations that are going on between the two chambers, let’s stay here until we put America back to work – that’s what we should be doing – out-innovating, out-building, and out-educating the rest of the world. I yield back my time. # # #
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON – House Democratic Caucus Chairman John B. Larson (CT) made the following statement on the House Floor today during debate on H.R. 2560, the so-called Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011: >>Watch the Statement Here<< Thank you, Madam Speaker. I rise to associate myself with the remarks of the distinguished gentleman from Maryland, Mr. Van Hollen. Let me say that in his opening comments I think he's laid it out pretty well. Cut, cap and balance – one has to resist on our side the notion that this is cut, cap and get rid of Medicare. The public has had it with this theater of the absurd that's going on. They want Congress to come together as our President has suggested and do the most important thing that we can, create jobs for the American people. At Augie and Ray’s in my hometown people ask me, what's going on – seems like a light beer commercial where there's this endless quibbling back and forth with people on both sides of the aisle who care deeply about their country, but seem to do little about putting the nation back to work. We face a crisis with the debt ceiling, a debt ceiling that 17 times under Ronald Reagan was lifted without any bill being held hostage and clearly not programs like Medicare and Social Security. This is a time for us to come together and reason in a rational process. There are no immediate tax impositions placed by the President. All of you have been in the negotiations understand and know that. In fact, this Congress when we were in the majority passed the largest tax cut for the middle class. The largest tax cut! I continue to believe that the people in my hometown have it right. That the issue is about jobs. We cannot take this nation up to the precipice, up to the cliff again, and risk endangerment of default. As Ronald Reagan said, this would be a catastrophe for this country, to allow this to take place. We need to stay at the table and continue to negotiate around the idea of jobs. Taking a look at those things strategically that can be cut, that create jobs. And those revenues that can be enhanced to create jobs. To put the American people back to work. That's what the American people want to see, the Congress that can come together. I stand by our President, by this great Chairman, in making sure that we don't go through this theater of the absurd. You know that this is not a true balanced budget amendment. You know that in your heart. You have talent and good people on your side, as do we. Let's be about putting America back to work and create jobs. Let's not talk about defaulting on the nation or defaulting on the American people. Let's talk about putting them back to work. That's what we need to do in this nation. # # #
07.20.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the nomination of Richard Cordray to be Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) by President Obama: “I applaud President Obama’s nomination of Richard Cordray to serve as the first Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and urge a speedy confirmation. His nomination, coupled with the official opening of the Bureau this Thursday, mark an important milestone for accountability and consumer protection. “The new protections and benefits the Bureau will provide would not have been possible without the tireless leadership of Elizabeth Warren. We continue to lament the fact that she was unacceptable to the GOP, which just goes to show you how closely tied they are to big banks and Wall Street. Her work to put consumers first will benefit American families who were hurt by Wall Street’s reckless and abusive practices. Warren’s passion and commitment will provide future directors with a common sense model of fighting for consumers. “American families cannot afford to return to the failed system that led to the financial crisis and put Wall Street greed before Main Street values. I look forward to working with Richard to ensure that Americans get the protection they deserve and to fight efforts to dismantle and delay these critical reforms. ” # # #
07.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) reiterated his call for Congress to pass a clean debt limit bill today as top economists testified during a Ways and Means Committee hearing that “it is essential [the United States] act now.” Only hours after the testimony Moody’s Investor Service announced that they will put the United States on review for a possible downgrade, causing it to potentially lose its top “AAA” rating. “Playing with the credit rating of the United States is not a game that Congress should be engaged in,” Congressman Larson said. “As we heard today there will be serious consequences if the United States defaults on its debts. It’s time for Congress to pass a no-strings-attached, debt ceiling increase like it did 17 times for President Ronald Reagan and seven times for George W. Bush. We must send a message to the world that the United States is a country that pays its debts.” During the hearing Congressman Larson participated in the following exchange : Rep. Larson: “Given what’s happening around the globe…what is your advice to the Congress in terms of acting given the deadlines that Treasury Secretary Geithner has outlined?” Simon Johnson, Professor of Entrepreneurship at MIT Sloan School of Management (and former chief economist at the IMF): “You cannot play games with something this serious. World financial markets are much more fragile than you’d like to believe…It’s absolutely essential that the United States remain a beacon of safety and clarity to international investors, otherwise there will be consequences for all of us around the world.” Mihir Desai, Professor of Law and Finance at Harvard University: “People may stop receiving their payments which is extremely problematic, but it can also become a broader manifestation of a system that appears broken to the rest of the world and that is where we run into significant problems. I think it’s very important that this particular deadline is not ignored…It is essential that we act now.” Watch a video of the exchange: https://youtu.be/IqcgtLIOIN4 The United States will hit the debt-ceiling deadline on August 2nd. ###
07.12.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement this afternoon on news that Cigna has chosen Bloomfield as its new United States headquarters. The move is anticipated to create at least 200 new jobs in the state as Cigna will also upgrade its existing facilities. The company cited Connecticut’s new, “First Five” program as a major reason for the relocation. “I want to extend my congratulations and offer my appreciation to the leadership of Cigna, especially CEO David Cordani, as they increase their investment in Connecticut. Time and again Mr. Cordani has shown himself to be not only one of the most accomplished health care leaders in our country, but among the most enlightened as well. “As the Metro-Hartford region continues to lead our state’s economic recovery, I also want to thank Governor Dannel Malloy for his vision in creating Connecticut’s ‘First Five’ economic incentive program and the General Assembly for their work in ensuring its passage. This deal is proof that government has the ability to help foster economic growth and be a catalyst for our country’s recovery. “The decision by Cigna to designate the great community of Bloomfield as its new United States headquarters is terrific news for not only our region, but our entire state.”
07.10.2011	HARTFORD, CT – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the debt limit negotiations: "The American people get it. They are weary of the theater and the political drama because they understand that it is their pensions, their savings, their mortgages and their 401Ks that the Republicans are playing with. This shouldn’t be about who’s going to be the next President or who’s going to control Congress, it should be about who’s going to protect their savings, their mortgages and their 401Ks in this crisis. Republicans continue to hold in disregard Americans true needs: jobs and financial security." "For the sake of the nation, it’s time to forget the politics and vote a clean debt ceiling increase, as was done seven times for President Bush."
07.08.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the June jobs report: "Republican leaders think we can cut our way to prosperity. As a result, it’s now been half a year and the Congress hasn’t been allowed to focus on a single jobs bill. Today’s job numbers show the effect of that on our nation. Corporate profits have fully recovered, but jobs have not. "We all know that we have to get our deficit under control. But the best way to do that is to get Americans working again. That’s why Democrats believe we need to be making smart, long term investments in America and Americans. Our Make it in America plan does that – from job training to infrastructure development to the NAT GAS bill that would get us off foreign oil, Democrats want to get America working again. "It’s time for Republicans in Congress to stop working to tie Congress in knots and start working with us to put America back to work.
07.07.2011	Five- and One-Dollar Coins Will Honor Twain, Support Local Museum and House HARTFORD – Congressmen John Larson (CT-01) and Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-09) introduced the Mark Twain Commemorative Coin Act in the House of Representatives today. The bill looks to create a new set of five- and one-dollar silver coins that commemorate the life of Mark Twain. The surcharges associated with the Twain coins will benefit four nonprofit organizations that preserve the work and legacy of Mark Twain, including the Mark Twain House and Museum in Hartford. "Mark Twain’s writing has left an indelible mark on the history of our country and our state," Congressman Larson said. "By creating these coins we not only honor Twain for his contributions to our country, but we also continue to support the organizations that preserve his legacy every day. And that is something worth working to ensure." "A true American figure, Mark Twain’s life and legacy is an important part of our country’s history," Congressman Luetkemeyer said. "I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle on this legislation that helps strengthen and continues Mark Twain’s literary legacy, and will provide support to organizations that honor his contribution to American history." According to the legislation the targeted year for the releasing of the coins into circulation is 2016. We are honored to be a part of this amazing project that will help support Mark Twain's enduring American legacy," said Mark Twin House and Museum Executive Director Jeff Nichols. "Twain referred to his Hartford house as ‘the loveliest home that ever was.’ He adored it, and with the passage of this bill, we will ensure that his house will be preserved for visitors who adore Twain and his amazing literary legacy."
07.07.2011	Correction issued following meeting between CMS, Reps. Courtney and Larson HARTFORD – Members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation and Governor Dannel Malloy applauded today’s decision by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to reevaluate their analysis of payments to Connecticut hospitals in the FY 2012 Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (IPPS) proposed rule. Recently the Connecticut Hospital Association discovered an error in a calculation for the IPPS proposed rule. After hearing of this error, Congressmen Larson (CT-01) and Courtney (CT-02) met with CMS leadership to bring the mistake to their attention. Last week CMS confirmed the error and issued a correction today which will prevent $30 million in federal payments to Connecticut hospitals from being cut. "I am very pleased to have joined with Congressman Courtney in helping to bring this oversight to CMS’ attention," Congressman Larson said. "With this correction our entire state will benefit. Connecticut has some of the best hospitals and most talented medical professionals in the entire country and I am happy to do my part in ensuring they get the federal funding they deserve." "If left uncorrected, this anomaly would have particularly hit Windham Hospital the hardest," said Congressman Courtney. "CMS had incorrectly denied rural wage status to Windham resulting in a $6.15 million loss of revenue that would have severely damaged its operations. The meeting Congressman Larson and I held with CMS protected that critical institution in eastern Connecticut and concurrently helped all of Connecticut’s hospitals that would have suffered as a result." "Congressmen Larson and Courtney should be commended for leading the charge on this issue," Governor Malloy said. "When it became clear that there was an error in the calculation used by CMS, the Connecticut Delegation in Washington came together on behalf of the hospitals in our state. The potential for our state to lose $30 million dollars as a result of this error would be devastating and I'm pleased this will no longer be the case." "With this correction, we will prevent Connecticut from losing a staggering $30 million in funding," Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) said. "It is critical that Connecticut residents have access to the best medical care possible, and that means ensuring that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid’s calculations are correct and appropriate for our state. I am very pleased with this decision and look forward to it benefitting our local hospitals." "This decision represents a clear victory for Connecticut hospitals," said Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-05) said. “It's rare when a big federal agency admits when they are wrong, but after hearing from our delegation, CMS made the right call. Protecting this funding is a big win for hospitals in my district and across the state." "This result is both favorable and fair-- when Connecticut's hospitals particularly need and deserve it," Senator Richard Blumenthal said. "Federal officials did the right thing, cooperating with our state delegation, led especially by Congressmen Larson and Courtney. I am grateful for their work on this critical issue." The correction will affect 104 providers across the country.
07.06.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) announced today that a recent National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) grant of $150,000 has been awarded to the city of Hartford for use in the construction of the iQuilt project. “The iQuilt project has the potential to revitalize downtown Hartford, returning it to the dominant center of culture that the city once was,” Congressman Larson said. “This grant by the NEA will go a long way in helping the state and city finance this ambitious project. I am very happy to have helped the city of Hartford receive this funding and my office will continue to do its part to obtain any grants and federal aid available for this project.” The NEA grants were allocated through the new Our Town program, which fund projects that support the arts as a means to aid communities. After receiving 447 statements of interest during the course of the grant season, the NEA has awarded 51 Our Town grants valued at over $6.5 million. Mayor Pedro E. Segarra says, “Our City is truly honored to receive this Our Town award. This support continues the positive momentum that iQuilt has established as part of Hartford’s One, City, One Plan for conservation and development. This award underscores all the hard work of our partnerships with staff and community leaders, including HartBeat Ensemble. This effort utilizes Arts, Heritage, and Culture as a way to drive the economy, create jobs, knit together our cultural and open space assets, and improve the quality of life for residents and visitors alike.” The iQuilt project is a proposed project that looks to connect Hartford’s historical and arts centers by way of a greenway that will stretch from Bushnell Park to the Connecticut River. ###
07.05.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today marking the 45th anniversary of the implementation of Medicare on July 1, 1966: “Forty-five years ago the very first Medicare check in the nation was delivered here in Hartford to Hartford Hospital, beginning the implementation of one of the fundamental safety nets protecting middle-class American families. Many today don’t remember how hard it was for seniors to get even basic healthcare before Medicare. Nearly half of the seniors in the nation were forced to go without coverage because insurance companies were reluctant to insure them. Today, thanks to Medicare, nearly every senior in the country has access to affordable and quality healthcare. In fact, Medicare, has created the healthiest generation of senior citizens in American history “Now, Republicans in Congress want us to believe that the only way to address our deficit is to end Medicare – leaving our nation’s seniors right back where they were forty-five years ago – while protecting tax breaks for the oil industry and other special interests. “Democrats won’t stand for that! As we mark Medicare’s 45th Anniversary, we are fighting to ensure that that bedrock promise between our government and every American is preserved and strengthened so that it can continue to help seniors today and in the future.” # # #
06.30.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), released the following statement today on the Administration’s plan to bring the Colombian trade agreement to Congress without including language that would incorporate requirements from the Labor Action Plan to improve Colombian workers’ labor rights. The Action Plan was negotiated earlier this year with the Colombian government. “I am extremely disappointed that Congressional Republicans have prevented any meaningful reference to the Action Plan Related to Labor Rights in the Colombia Free Trade Agreement implementing legislation that we’re being asked to consider. “Over the last several months, the Administration has worked diligently with the Colombian government to create a path forward for badly needed improvements in workers’ rights in Colombia. While I believe that the “Action Plan” did not go far enough to address the harsh conditions faced by Colombian workers, it does have the potential – if properly implemented – to strengthen basic workers rights on the ground in Colombia. “Improving Colombian workers’ rights is not only the right thing to do morally, it’s the right thing to do economically too. The more the people of Colombia improve their lot, the more demand there will be for American goods and services. It would be irresponsible for the United States to now backpedal and move forward without inclusion of the Action Plan in the implementing language. “I will actively oppose the legislation in its current form.”
06.29.2011	HARTFORD –Congressman John Larson was at the University of Hartford’s Konover Campus Center last night for a public conversation about American foreign policy. With over 60 in attendance for the two and half hour forum, Larson fielded dozens of questions on topics ranging from Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya to trade agreements and defense spending. “As a member of Congress, I believe it’s extremely important to regularly hear from my constituents on the most important issues of the day,” Congressman Larson said. “With tough budget choices being debated in Congress at the same time that we maintain over 300,000 American servicemen and women stationed all over the world and continue operations in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, it’s important to have a conversation on the current state of our foreign policy and what direction we want to go in the future. I’m glad so many people came out for the discussion last night.” Last week President Obama announced plans to drawdown American forces in Afghanistan, bringing 30,000 soldiers home by the summer of 2012. In addition to spirited discussions over America’s military involvement abroad, many attendees expressed concern over care for returning Veterans. “Since the September 11, 2001 military attacks the only portion of the population we have called upon to sacrifice is those that wear the uniform,” said Congressman Larson. “As our brave men and women return home we must ensure that they have the care and support needed to transition back to civilian life.” ###
06.29.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) applauded data released today by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that shows during the first five months of 2011, Medicare beneficiaries in the First Congressional District have saved over $435,000 thanks to the Affordable Care Act, and $2.7 million statewide. “The data released by CMS today shows that the Affordable Care Act continues to work for seniors throughout the country,” Congressman Larson said. “Just as we said while we were debating the bill, the Affordable Care Act is strengthening Medicare and Medicaid while expanding coverage for millions of Americans. At a time when Republicans in Congress want to end Medicare and repeal the Affordable Care Act, we should be focusing on how to further lower costs and improve health coverage for seniors and the rest of the country.” The Affordable Care Act, passed in March of 2010, ensured that Medicare recipients began to receive a 50 percent discount this year on brand-name medication in the Part D coverage gap, known as the “Donut Hole.” Last year, Medicare beneficiaries who reached the coverage gap received $250 rebate checks, resulting in over 42,000 Connecticut residents receiving assistance to help pay for their prescription drugs. Over the next decade the donut hole will be completely eliminated thanks to the Affordable Care Act. According to the data released by CMS, 857 residents living in the First Congressional District have benefitted from the discounts this year, saving an average of $508. The House Republican Budget, passed earlier this year without a single Democratic vote, will repeal the Affordable Care Act, which will reopen the “Donut Hole” and increase the cost of medication to seniors. ###
06.27.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will hold a public forum on foreign policy this Tuesday night at the University of Hartford to address President Obama’s recent announcement of a troop drawdown in Afghanistan as well as other related issues. With American troops stationed all around the world and engaged in operations in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya, Congressman Larson will discuss the future of American military involvement abroad as well as take questions and statements from constituents. This event is open to the public and all are welcome to attend. WHAT: Congressman Larson to host a foreign policy forum at the University of Hartford WHEN: Tuesday, June 28, 2011 6-8 p.m. WHERE: University of Hartford Konover Campus Center 200 Bloomfield Avenue (Free Parking in Lot ‘F’) ###
06.27.2011	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of lawmakers introduced legislation this afternoon aimed at continuing federal tax breaks for volunteer firefighters and first responders throughout the country. The Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act, sponsored by U.S. Reps John Larson (CT-01), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Tammy Baldwin (WI-02), and Tom Latham (IA-04), looks to help states and municipalities attract and retain first responders. “The brave men and women that volunteer to put their well-being on the line every day for their families, friends and neighbors embody the best qualities of all Americans,” Congressman Larson said. “This legislation allows us to say thank you to them and encourage others throughout the country to follow their lead and volunteer to serve in their communities.” “As a first responder for 33 years before coming to Congress and joining the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee, I will continue to work to see this important tax exemption preserved,” said Reichert. “I strongly support proposals that encourage this type of volunteerism by protecting first responders from taxes that are the result of their service. The volunteer first responders that work to keep our communities safe don’t ask for anything in return but I believe the least we can do for them is preserve the modest tax exemption they receive. It’s the right thing to do.” “Volunteer firefighters and emergency responders provide an invaluable service to their communities and the American people,” said Congresswoman Baldwin. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in leading legislation that will benefit these brave Americans and encourage volunteer service across the country,” Baldwin said. According to the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC), volunteer first responders serve up to 38 percent of the population and save taxpayers roughly $40 billion per year. The bill reauthorizes Rep. Larson’s original legislation, the Volunteer Responder Incentive Protection Act of 2007, which expired at the end of last year. Today’s legislation reestablishes the ability of volunteer firefighters and EMS personnel to exempt taxable benefits provided by state and local units of government until 2015, and increases the annual cap to $600. “Our community volunteer firefighters and emergency responders are the people we all look to for help and safety in times of crisis,” Congressman Latham said. “This legislation is a common-sense way to encourage the important work of our community first responders, and I’m proud to work with my colleagues to help these selfless Americans.” In a letter to the Members, the Congressional Fire Service Institute, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Association of Towns and Townships and National Volunteer Fire Council offered support for the legislation: “On behalf of the nation’s volunteer emergency responders and the communities that they protect, we applaud you for introducing this important legislation to prevent a tax increase on volunteer emergency responders and look forward to working with you to ensure its passage.” ###
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the Administration's planned release of 30 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. “At a time when Connecticut families are paying the second highest prices in the country for gas, I want to commend the Administration for taking this step to help combat high gas prices and help stabilize the oil markets that have been affected by the unrest in Libya. “As I have proposed in the past, tapping the Reserve is just one of several steps that we, as a country, can take to help lower gas and energy prices. Another major step would be to reign in abusive speculation that adds over $20 to the price of every barrel of oil. I call on my colleagues in Congress to stand up for American families and allow the CFTC to do its job. Unfortunately, the Republican majority appears to be more concerned with protecting oil speculators then they are with bringing down gas prices. In just the last month they have pushed to delay the implementation of anti-speculation rules and they have voted to starve the CFTC of the funds it needs to put cops on the beat to prevent abusive market manipulation. “Congress must follow President Obama’s example and do our part to help lower gas and energy costs today.”
06.23.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the President’s announcement regarding troop drawdown from Afghanistan: “I want to commend President Obama. Over the last 18 months we've had some great successes in the war on terror - capped with the truly historic mission that succeeded in bringing Osama bin Laden to justice - that now allow us to begin drawing our operations in Afghanistan to a close. “While I recognize that it is in our own best interest to ensure that the region remains stable, after nearly a decade, with thousands of American lives and billions of dollars invested, it's time to ask the Afghan government to stand on its own. “We have too many important issues to address here at home to do anything less.”
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressmen John Larson (CT-01) and Walter Jones (NC-03) introduced earlier today the Caring for Military Kids With Autism Act, legislation to improve the lives of military dependents with autism. The bill would clarify that military dependents with autism have access to medically necessary behavioral health treatments such as applied behavior analysis through TRICARE. ABA is a behavioral health treatment that has shown to be effective in improving outcomes for children with autism. Under current rules and regulations, dependents receive limited access to this effective health treatment due to the cap on the amount TRICARE may pay for these services on a yearly basis. Additionally, the legislation would ensure coverage for these services is available for dependents of retirees. “This bill takes a commonsense approach in ensuring that the children of the brave men and women who serve in our armed forces have access to the care they need,” Congressman Larson said. “What is most inspiring about this bill is that much of the credit for its introduction goes to concerned military families who have brought this issue before Congress. It is their advocacy and hard work that has lead to this critical piece of legislation.” “Our service members and their families sacrifice everything for their country,” said Congressman Jones. “It is our responsibility to do all we can to protect these families, especially their children, by making sure they can access the best care available.” Joining the Congressmen on the call were Karen Driscoll and Rachel Kenyon, military mothers of children with autism who were instrumental in the shaping of the bill as well as Peter Bell, Executive Vice President of Programs and Services for Autism Speaks. “For the 1 in 88 military kids struggling with autism, the Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act is critical. Whether their soldier is active duty or retired - after twenty-four years of service, it is unfair to look my battle-weary soldier in the eyes and tell him he cannot retire because of our daughter’s autism,” said Rachel Kenyon of Manchester. “For all that our brave men and women do to keep us tucked safely asleep at night, we surely cannot deny our military families access to the care our warrior kids with autism deserve. This Act will allow my husband to someday retire from service with pride, secure in the knowledge that his dedication to our country has earned the care our daughter with autism needs and is entitled to." “Military families shoulder tremendous responsibilities today - add the challenges of autism and the difficulties in accessing and paying for effective treatment, and families are understandably pushed to the brink,” said Karen Driscoll of San Diego, California. “The Caring for Military Kids with Autism Act will provide coverage for medically recommended services and help lighten the load these brave families carry. It is simply the right thing to do. This bill will eliminate the arbitrary dollar limitation on my son's treatment program and finally allow for our family to access the prescribed level of care my son requires as well as fulfill the promise of continued care when my husband eventually retires.” “Autism Speaks commends Congressmen Larson and Jones for their commitment to individuals with autism and their families, and for making autism insurance coverage a legislative priority, especially for military families,” said Peter Bell, Autism Speaks executive vice president of programs and services. “Families across the country are literally going broke trying to provide their children with the therapies they need and deserve. The fact that our military families, who serve to protect our freedom and security, could be put in this situation is shameful.” ###
06.22.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) applauded a decision today by the Department of Labor to award the State of Connecticut a $5.8 Million federal grant through the “Green Jobs Innovation fund” to support the Connecticut Green Jobs Funnel Initiative. Among the seven Connecticut cities helped by this grant two are from the First Congressional District: Hartford and Bristol. “At a time when our state is facing 9.1 percent unemployment this grant focuses on the most important issue facing America today: jobs,” Congressman Larson said. “This funding will go a long way in ensuring that Connecticut is prepared to be a leader in the industries that will help shape the future of our country. I am very grateful to the Obama Administration and Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis for this fantastic grant and congratulate the Connecticut State Department of Labor and their partners for their work in putting in a superb application.” The Green Jobs Innovation Fund grants will help workers receive training in green industry sectors as well as helping existing programs use Registered Apprenticeships, pre-apprenticeship programs, and community-based partnerships to lay the foundation for sustainable green careers. "The grants announced today are an important part of the administration’s efforts to ensure workers have the skills they need to compete and succeed in emerging green industry jobs. More importantly, these grants are smart investments in the people of Connecticut, helping to prepare them for the green energy jobs of today and the green energy economy of the future," said Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis. The grant awarded to Connecticut is targeted at providing unemployed and underemployed workers with training and credentials to obtain employment in green construction and related industries, to work in jobs such as Brownfield remediation, deconstruction, retrofitting, weatherization and energy management, and construction skilled trades that require green skills. ###
06.22.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressmen John Larson (CT-01) and Walter Jones (NC-03) will hold a conference call with reporters this Wednesday afternoon to discuss the introduction of the Caring for Military Kids With Autism Act. The proposed legislation clarifies that military dependents with autism have access under the TRICARE program to medically necessary behavioral health treatments, including applied behavior analysis. Currently there is a cap on the amount of money TRICARE will pay for these services each year and coverage for these services is not available for dependents of retirees. Joining Congressmen Larson and Jones for Wednesday’s call will be Karen Driscoll and Rachel Kenyon, military mothers of children with autism whose advocacy helped shape the creation of the bill. Members of the press are being asked to please RSVP for the call ahead of time by signing up online, or calling Chris Licata at Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 or Catherine Fodor at Congressman Jones’s office at (202) 225-3415. WHAT: Congressmen Larson, Jones to hold press call on “Caring For Military Kids With Autism Act.” WHEN: Wednesday, June 22, 2011 – 1:30 p.m. WHERE: Conference Call. To receive call-in information, sign up here or call the numbers above. ###
06.17.2011	????????HARTFORD ???????– Congressman John Larson (CT-01) joined United Technologies employees, East Hartford Students and Coca-Cola executives in unveiling two new PureCell System Model 400 fuel cells at the soft drink provider’s East Hartford facility Friday morning. The new fuel cells will generate enough energy to meet nearly 100 percent of the electrical and 50 percent of the heating power demand at the bottling facility. Using hydrogen to power the fuel cells will reduce harmful greenhouse gas emissions and the facility’s overall energy use by 30 percent. By generating this power onsite, Coca-Cola will be helping to lessen the burden on our power grid. “These UTC fuel cells have the potential to be??????come a real game-changer in the way ??businesses power and heat their facilities,” Congressman Larson said. “This is a great investment by Coca-Cola. They’re now poised to see real energy savings while doing their part to reduce the burden on our power grid and help fight global warming. United Technologies should be commended as well for realizing the potential of fuel cells and continuing to produce them here in? Connecticut.” A recent report by the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT) indicates that Connecticut’s Hydrogen Fuel Cell industry has grown by 28 percent since 2006. “UTC Power is extremely pleased that Congressman Larson could join us today as we celebrate the installation of two of our 400 kilowatt stationary fuel cells here at the Coca-Cola Refreshments bottling facility in his hometown of East Hartford,” said Mike Brown, vice president of government affairs and general counsel for UTC Power. “We want to sincerely thank Congressman Larson for his commitment to the commercialization and deployment of fuel cells. Connecticut and the state’s fuel cell industry are fortunate to have a leader like Congressman Larson who truly believes fuel cells can help lead the way to energy independence.” The two fuel cells were wrapped in artwork created by East Hartford High School Junior Julia Steele, who won a contest sponsored by Coca-Cola. ###
06.15.2011	HARTFORD – This morning Congressman John Larson (CT-01) officially welcomed Manchester’s Ryan Dion to his district office staff from the federal, Wounded Warrior Program. Dion was injured in an IED explosion in Fallujah, Iraq in April of 2007. For his bravery he was awarded a Purple Heart. “I'm very pleased to welcome a young man as talented, hard-working and friendly as Ryan to our team here in Hartford,” Congressman Larson said. “Ryan’s service to our country and his bravery in the line of duty while serving in Iraq is an inspiration. I'm grateful to the Wounded Warrior Program for providing us with such a valuable new voice for the veterans’ community." The Wounded Warrior Program is a federal project that provides employment opportunities for veterans who want to work in the House of Representatives. “It is a great honor to be working for Congressman John B. Larson,” Dion said. “My job is Veteran's Coordinator and I love the fact that I can give back and still be able to help out the Veteran Community. As a Wounded Warrior I understand what our Veterans are going through and bring a lot of knowledge to the table to help them and their families obtain the information they need and get the benefits they deserve.” ### Photo: Congressman Larson and Ryan Dion.
06.14.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) marked the 150th anniversary of Flag Day and the 375th birthday of Hartford by stressing the "interwoven history" of the United States and the City. "Given that the City of Hartford has played such a historical role in shaping the United States, it is no surprise that the idea of Flag Day originated here," Congressman Larson said. "Whether it was laying the foundation for the United States Constitution nearly 100 years before the document was signed or being home to distinguished citizens such as Mark Twain, Harriet Beecher Stowe and P.T. Barnum, Hartford's history has forever been interwoven with that of our great country." Hartford citizen George Morris is generally credited with originally coming up with the idea for Flag Day shortly before the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861. Later that year the Hartford Daily Courant newspaper endorsed the idea and in 1862 the General Assembly voted to make Connecticut the first state to recognize June 14th as Flag Day. Making the 150th anniversary of Flag Day all the more special is that it also happens to coincide with the 375th birthday of the City of Hartford. Over the past week Mayor Pedro E. Segarra has held numerous events celebrating the city's birthday culminating with a march from Hartford City Hall to Connecticut's Old State House. In a letter to all those who attended the march, Congressman Larson said, "I want to thank Mayor Pedro Segarra and the citizens of Hartford for doing such an incredible job of honoring the history of our city today and every day." ###
06.13.2011	Washington, DC— Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Chris Van Hollen (MD-8), Joe Courtney (CT-2), and Peter Welch (D-VT), along with 72 of their colleagues in the House of Representatives, called today for the Republican leadership to support the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which has oversight over the dangerous oil speculation that has driven up gas prices around the country, instead of bringing legislation to the House floor that would seriously restrict its funding. H.R. 1573 would delay the CFTC from putting in place reforms to limit the undue influence that speculators have in manipulating the energy markets by 18 months at the expense of American families struggling to cope with rising gas prices. The members wrote, “Our constituents cannot afford continued gas price increases, and our nation’s businesses cannot afford wild swings in oil prices that make it difficult for them to plan their budgets and hedge their supply risks. Accordingly, we respectfully urge you to refrain from bringing H.R. 1573 to the floor, allow the CFTC to continue its work in reining in speculators, and work in a bipartisan way on policies that will address speculation and decrease rather than increase the price of gas.” The text of the letter is below. June 13, 2011 The Honorable John A. Boehner Speaker H-232 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Eric Cantor Majority Leader H-329 The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor, We write to express our disappointment with your failure to bring legislation to the floor of the House of Representatives that would bring immediate relief to the American people facing ever-rising gas prices, as well as our deep concern with legislation advancing through the House that would lead to further increases in gas prices. We respectfully urge you to refrain from bringing this legislation, H.R. 1573, which would hamper efforts to curb dangerous oil speculation, to the floor and instead work in a bipartisan manner on common-sense initiatives to address excessive speculation and lower gas prices. As you know, gas prices have reached an average of around $4 dollars a gallon across the country this year, up dramatically from the $2.78 national average cost for a gallon of gasoline in 2010. This steep and sudden increase in the price of gas is squeezing the already strained budgets of middle-class Americans and hampering the economy’s ability to fully recover from the worst recession since the Great Depression. A key driver of this spike in gas prices is energy speculation, with Goldman Sachs estimating that at the peak of the recent oil price bubble speculators increased crude prices by approximately 20 percent, which in turn significantly increased gas prices. Recently, we have seen volatility in oil prices that is clearly not driven by supply and demand fundamentals. In fact, the head of Exxon Mobil recently testified to Congress that the price of oil should be “in the $60 to $70 range,” even as it hovers around $100 a barrel. Yet, you and your colleagues have put forward budgets for 2011 and 2012 that would significantly cut funding for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the one entity that can prevent speculators from continuing to drive up gas prices. Now Republican Members of Congress are advancing additional proposals to weaken the CFTC’s authority to rein in such detrimental speculation, even as it demonstrates its importance recently charging five oil speculators with manipulating the price of crude in netting them more than $50 million as oil prices climbed toward record highs of $147 a barrel in the summer of 2008. One piece of legislation, H.R. 1573, which has been marked up by the Agriculture and Financial Services Committees, would delay by 18 months the CFTC’s ability to put in place reforms to limit the undue influence that speculators, whose motives are purely financial, are having in manipulating the energy markets at the expense of American families. Our constituents cannot afford continued gas price increases, and our nation’s businesses cannot afford wild swings in oil prices that make it difficult for them to plan their budgets and hedge their supply risks. Accordingly, we respectfully urge you to refrain from bringing H.R. 1573 to the floor, allow the CFTC to continue its work in reining in speculators, and work in a bipartisan way on policies that will address speculation and decrease rather than increase the price of gas. We thank you for your attention and look forward to working with you on this critical matter. Sincerely, ###
06.09.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) welcomed members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to Hartford today as the group prepares to participate in a series of events in celebration of Harriet Beecher Stowe's 200th birthday and a broader discussion on race in America. "I am deeply honored to welcome members of the Congressional Black Caucus to Hartford this weekend to celebrate the 200th birthday of Harriet Beecher Stowe and participate in a number of important discussions on race in America," Congressman Larson said. "These events will provide a forum to continue the conversation on race Stowe began 160 years ago." The three-day celebration, which coincides with the 40th anniversary of the formation of the Congressional Black Caucus, will highlight the impact that Stowe's book had on sparking anti-slavery sentiment in the United States. Additional activities include panel discussions on Closing the Education Achievement Gap, The Economics of Race and Health Disparities in African American communities. CBC members attending include Chairman Emanuel Cleaver Jr. (MO-05), and Reps. Corrine Brown (FL-03), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), William Lacy Clay Jr. (MO-01), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Gregory Meeks (NY-06), Donald Payne (NJ-10), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Jesse Jackson Jr. (IL-2) and Laura Richardson (CA-37). All events on the following page are open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. Members of the press who are interested in setting up interviews with specific members of the CBC throughout the three days should contact Chris Licata at (860) 539-4924. Thursday, June 9, 2011 WHAT: Inspiration to Action Fair: Panel Discussion on "Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide." WHEN: 3:15 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. WHERE: Immanuel Congregation Church Farmington Avenue at Woodland Street Hartford, CT 06105 WHAT: Larson to host reception for CBC members. WHEN: 7:00 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. WHERE: Artists Collective 1200 Albany Ave. Hartford, CT 06105 Friday, June 10, 2011 WHAT: Social Justice Call to Action Forum: A Conversation on Race & Social Justice WHEN: 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Bushnell Belding Theatre 166 Capitol Ave Hartford, CT 06106 MEDIA NOTE: There will be press availability for 15 minutes following the forum from 12:30-12:45 p.m. in the third floor lobby of the Belding Theatre. Saturday, June 11, 2011 WHAT: Harriet Beecher Stowe's 200th Birthday Community Event WHEN: 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Harriet Beecher Stowe Center 77 Forest Street Hartford, CT 06105 ###
06.08.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded news that the Indian Government has formally approved an agreement to purchase 10 C-17 Globemaster III military aircrafts, powered by Pratt & Whitney engines. “The agreement by India to purchase these aircrafts represents a major victory for our community and the entire state of Connecticut,” Congressman Larson said. “At a time when manufacturing in our state is continuing to make a strong comeback, this deal represents even more good news for the hardworking men and women who comprise Connecticut’s industrial base. I want to praise President Obama and Indian Prime Minister Singh for working together to make this historic agreement possible for both nations. This is a win-win situation for the United States and India, increasing our trade, economic, and security relations for years to come.” Last July, Congressman Larson invited Indian Ambassador to the United States, Meera Shankar, to visit the Pratt & Whitney facilities in East Hartford and meet with United Technology executives and Pratt machinists. The focus of the visit was to expand the relationships between Connecticut manufacturers and the Indian Government, with much of the time spent discussing the C-17 program. “Last year, Ambassador Shankar spoke to UTC executives and machinists about the great economic potential of expanding trade relations between her nation and the United States - and with this recent decision to finalize the purchase of C-17 aircraft, we are seeing this relationship solidify,” said Congressman Larson. “I am looking forward to continuing to work with the President, Connecticut companies like UTC, and our machinists to identify even more opportunities to ‘Make it in America’ and sell it around the world.” Each Boeing C-17 military aircraft is powered by four Pratt & Whitney engines and with spares, it is expected that India would purchase approximately 45 engines. As stated by Boeing and the White House, this trade agreement is valued at approximately $4.1 billion and supports an estimated 22,160 jobs nationwide, including thousands in Connecticut. Once the agreement is fulfilled, the Indian Air Force will be the owner and operator of the largest fleet of C-17s outside of the United States. ###
06.06.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will participate in a ribbon-cutting ceremony Tuesday morning to celebrate the expansion of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology (CCAT)’s Advanced Manufacturing center and host an interactive forum at the University of Hartford’s Konover Campus Center on cutting the national deficit that evening. The CCAT Advanced Manufacturing Center (AMC) employs over 60 people and is comprised of three different laboratories: Laser Applications, Machining Applications and Modeling & Simulation Optics. With the expansion of the AMC, CCAT will be able to host workshops to educate and keep manufacturers apprised of new technologies and best practices. The United Technologies-CCAT partnership has also succeeded in addressing major manufacturing and supply chain-related issues throughout the years. During the evening’s interactive forum on deficit reduction, members of the community will have an opportunity to break up into groups and create their own mock federal budget where they will decide which programs to cut and which to preserve, while exploring different options on how to pay for them. Following the completion of their individual budgets participants will have an opportunity to present their plan to Congressman Larson and the rest of the forum attendees. Over the past several decades, our national debt has grown to more than $14 trillion. Democrats and Republicans in Washington have proposed different ways to cut the deficit. This forum will highlight the difficult choices each party faces as it develops a responsible, balanced budget. The CCAT ceremony is by invitation only, but the budget forum is open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. WHAT: Congressman Larson to attend CCAT ribbon cutting to celebrate the expansion of Advanced Manufacturing Center. WHEN: Tuesday, June 7, 2011 – 9:15 a.m. WHERE: Campus of UTRC 409 Silver Lane East Hartford, CT 06118 WHAT: Congressman Larson to host interactive forum on cutting the deficit WHEN: Tuesday, June 7, 2011 – 5:00 p.m. WHERE: Konover Campus Center University of Hartford 200 Bloomfield Avenue West Hartford, CT 06117 Free Parking in Lot “F” ###
06.03.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will welcome members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to Hartford next week in celebration of Harriet Beecher Stowe’s 200th birthday. The three-day celebration, which coincides with the 40th anniversary of the formation of the Congressional Black Caucus, will highlight the impact that Stowe’s book had in ending slavery in the United States. Additional activities include panel discussions on Closing the Education Achievement Gap, The Economics of Race and Health Disparities in African American communities. CBC members attending include Chairman Emanuel Cleaver III (MO-05), and Reps. Corrine Brown (FL-03), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Donna Christensen (Virgin Islands), William Lacy Clay Jr. (MO-01), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Gregory Meeks (NY-06), Donald Payne (NJ-10) and others. All events below are open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. Thursday, June 9, 2011 WHAT: Inspiration to Action Fair: Panel Discussion on “Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide. WHEN: 3:15 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. WHERE: Immanuel Congregation Church 360 Farmington Ave. Hartford, CT 06105 WHAT: Larson to host reception for CBC members. WHEN: 7:00 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. WHERE: Artists Collective 1200 Albany Avenue Hartford, CT 06105 Friday, June 10, 2011 WHAT: Social Justice Call to Action Forum: A Conversation on Race & Social Justice WHEN: 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. WHERE: The Bushnell Belding Theater 166 Capitol Avenue, Hartford, CT Saturday, June 11, 2011 WHAT: Harriet Beecher Stowe’s 200th Birthday Community Event WHEN: 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Harriet Beecher Stowe Center 77 Forest Street Hartford, CT 06105 ###
06.03.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will welcome members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to Hartford next week in celebration of Harriet Beecher Stowe’s 200th birthday. The three-day celebration, which coincides with the 40th anniversary of the formation of the Congressional Black Caucus, will highlight the impact that Stowe’s book had in ending slavery in the United States. Additional activities include panel discussions on Closing the Education Achievement Gap, The Economics of Race and Health Disparities in African American communities. CBC members attending include Chairman Emanuel Cleaver III (MO-05), and Reps. Corrine Brown (FL-03), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), Donna Christensen (Virgin Islands), William Lacy Clay Jr. (MO-01), Hank Johnson (GA-04), Gregory Meeks (NY-06), Donald Payne (NJ-10) and others. All events below are open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. Thursday, June 9, 2011 WHAT: Inspiration to Action Fair: Panel Discussion on “Turning Oppression into Opportunity for Women Worldwide. WHEN: 3:15 p.m. - 5:30 p.m. WHERE: Immanuel Congregation Church 360 Farmington Ave. Hartford, CT 06105 WHAT: Larson to host reception for CBC members. WHEN: 7:00 p.m. - 8:45 p.m. WHERE: Artists Collective 360 Farmington Ave. Hartford, CT 06105 Friday, June 10, 2011 WHAT: Social Justice Call to Action Forum: A Conversation on Race & Social Justice WHEN: 9:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Harriet Beecher Stowe Center 77 Forest Street Hartford, CT 06105 Saturday, June 11, 2011 WHAT: Harriet Beecher Stowe’s 200th Birthday Community Event WHEN: 10:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Harriet Beecher Stowe Center 77 Forest Street Hartford, CT 06105 ###
06.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressmen Pete Sessions (R-TX) and John Larson (D-CT) today introduced The Ambulatory Surgical Center Quality and Access Act of 2011 (H.R. 2108). The legislation would promote Medicare cost savings by putting policies in place that would establish an appropriate Medicare reimbursement for ambulatory surgery centers (ASCs) and protect access to high quality health care services for patients. “Our bill would protect patient access to high-quality, cost-efficient services by establishing reasonable Medicare reimbursement and quality reporting for ASCs,” said Sessions. “This legislation is imperative to ensure that our Medicare beneficiaries may continue to have a choice in where they receive outpatient procedures at a lower cost to them and to the American taxpayer.” “This is a commonsense, pragmatic fix to ensure that patients continue to have access to high quality surgical and preventive care that is highly cost effective,” said Larson. “ASCs are providing vital services to patients every day and this legislation will help them keep it up by fixing the illogical way they get paid by Medicare. It will also empower patients to choose the best services possible by requiring ASCs to meet new quality reporting standards.” Ambulatory Surgery Centers (ASCs) are modern health care facilities focused on providing same-day surgical care, including vital diagnostic and preventive health care procedures such as colonoscopies. Last year, approximately 5,200 ASCs provided 5 million outpatient surgeries. Currently, ASCs are reimbursed by Medicare at only 56% of the amount paid to hospital outpatient departments (HOPDs) for identical services. This disparity continues to grow from year to year because ASCs reimbursement rate is not tied to the same market basket as HOPDs. Larson and Sessions’ legislation would establish parity and balance by providing ASCs with the same market basket update that HOPDs receive. The legislation would incorporate and expand upon a Medicare Payment Advisory Commission recommendation that ASCs be required to provide quality data — ensuring that consumers have comparable information on price and quality to inform their decisions about where to receive outpatient surgery. Additionally, under the proposed legislation, Medicare would continue to save money while rewarding ASCs for providing high quality care by requiring the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to implement a value-based purchasing program. ###
06.03.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01), released the following statement on today’s Department of Labor report indicating that the economy added 54,000 jobs in May: “The number one priority for Americans today is jobs. As today’s jobs report illustrates, our economic recovery is fragile and we cannot take job growth for granted. While May marks the 15th consecutive month of positive job growth, far too many Americans are still looking for work and struggling to support their families. “For almost half a year now the Republican-controlled House of Representatives has not produced a single job-creation bill. Instead, Washington Republicans have focused like a laser on their ideological agenda to end Medicare and increase tax giveaways to Big Oil and companies that ship our jobs overseas. “But pointing fingers will not help create new jobs. We face immense economic problems that will take years to solve. It’s time to stop the partisan games, come together to reduce the deficit, ask the wealthiest to pay their fair share of taxes, and invest smartly to support education, innovation and new American industries. That’s why Democrats introduced an entire package of legislation aimed at preserving and creating new, good-paying jobs through our Make it in America plan. Together we can create jobs, reduce the deficit and grow the economy for all Americans. “I hope our Republican colleagues will join us.” ###
06.03.2011	WEST HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will host an interactive forum next Tuesday at the University of Hartford’s Konover Campus Center on cutting the national deficit. Over the past several decades, our national debt has grown to more than $14 trillion. Democrats and Republicans in Washington have proposed different ways to cut the deficit. Recently, Republicans have proposed ending Medicare while Democrats have proposed eliminating tax breaks for oil companies and the nation’s wealthiest Americans. During the forum participants will break up into groups and create their own mock federal budget where they will decide which programs to cut and which to preserve, while exploring different options on how to pay for them. Following the completion of their individual budgets participants will have an opportunity to present their plan to Congressman Larson and the rest of the forum attendees. The event is open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. WHAT: Congressman Larson to host interactive forum on cutting the deficit WHEN: Tuesday, June 7, 2011 – 5:00 p.m. WHERE: Konover Campus Center University of Hartford 200 Bloomfield Avenue West Hartford, CT 06117 Free Parking in Lot “F” ###
06.01.2011	May 25, 2011 Dear Friends, In addition to getting our economy going strong again and creating jobs, our nation’s long term economic health is one of the most important issues that must be addressed. Today in Washington lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have ideas on how to cut the deficit. I, and many of my Democratic colleagues, believe we must rein in the deficit in a fair way that helps all Americans succeed, including going after waste and fraud, eliminating taxpayer funded subsidies for companies that ship American jobs overseas and ending the Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Republicans in Washington have laid out a very different plan, claiming that the only way to cut the deficit is to end Medicare as we know it, while keeping huge tax giveaways for special interests. What would you do to cut the deficit? On Tuesday, June 7 at the University of Hartford I will be asking you, and the rest of the first congressional district, that question in an interactive forum on cutting the deficit. WHAT: Congressman John Larson hosts an Interactive Forum on Cutting the Deficit WHEN: Tuesday, June 7, 2011 – 5 p.m. WHERE: Konover Campus Center University of Hartford 200 Bloomfield Avenue West Hartford, CT 06117 (Free Parking in F Lot) During this interactive forum you and your friends and neighbors will create your own federal budget – choosing the priorities you think the government should be addressing. Together you will decide which programs need to be cut and which should be preserved, while exploring options on how to pay for them. After completion you will have the opportunity to share your thoughts with me and our forum participants. Please click here to RSVP for this event. For additional information, contact my office at (860) 278-8888. I hope to see you there! Sincerely,
05.31.2011	Urges GOP to not Delay and Defund Reform Legislation Passed Last Congress HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) urged Republicans in Congress today to stop delaying and attempting to defund consumer protections enacted by Wall Street Reform that are intended to prevent excessive speculation of gasoline. Joined by Executive Director of Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association (ICPA) Gene Guilford and former Republican Mayor of South Windsor John Mitchell, Larson stressed that in light of recent federal charges against five oil speculators for market manipulation, it is critical for Congress to enforce the safeguards passed by last year's Wall Street reform legislation. Last week Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee, in a partisan vote, moved to delay implementation of a provision from last year's Wall Street reform legislation that would crack down on abusive oil speculation and Republicans on the House Appropriations Committee unveiled a plan to gut funding for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, cutting $30 million out of their budget for next year. "Connecticut currently has the third highest gas prices in the nation and with the summer months approaching we are in desperate need of relief," Congressman Larson said. "Last Congress we passed significant Wall Street reforms that, including ending many of the practices that led to the 2008 financial collapse, take meaningful steps to rein in excessive and abusive oil and gas speculation. The recent votes by House Republicans to delay these important consumer protections are not only irresponsible, but extremely harmful to American families who are struggling to pay bills because of the high cost of gasoline. Republicans won't end taxpayer funded subsidies for big oil and won't enforce safeguards against abusive and excessive oil and gas speculation. The question is whose side are they on – consumers or big oil?" According to an April 2011 analysis by Goldman Sachs, unregulated speculation adds over $20 per barrel to the price of oil. Additionally, since 1990 the number of oil speculators has more than doubled with their percentage of the market growing from 30 percent then to nearly 70 percent today. Recently during a Senate hearing on oil tax subsidies, Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson admitted that a barrel of oil should cost $60-$70 based solely on supply and demand. "As the CFTC is trying to stop market manipulation that is costing the American economy billions every day, House Republicans are trying to not only slow down the CFTC by delaying its rules, but are also proposing to cut the budget of the CFTC and gut its ability to do its job on behalf of the American people," Guilford said. "In the last decade we have had the Enron scandal, at once the largest corporate bankruptcy in American history and perpetrator of manipulating the California electricity market costing California consumers over $20 billion in higher electricity costs. We have seen the Amaranth scandal, involving excessive speculation in the natural gas markets. British Petroleum paid the largest civil penalty every assessed by the CFTC in 2004, $303 million, when it was found to have manipulated the prices of propane, gasoline and crude oil. No delays. No cuts in funding. Protect this economy and the American people from food and energy market manipulation. Now." "The time of inaction has long passed to rein in a speculative fever that exists in the energy markets," former Mayor Mitchell said. "It has devastated many families as well as slowed down our economic recovery." Recently Congressman Larson has advocated for additional steps to offer consumer relief at the pump, including: • Adopting a "use it or lose it" policy for oil companies sitting on untapped oil fields. • Creating an independent inspector general to oversee the oil industry. • Fully fund the CFTC so it can monitor for excessive and abusive oil speculation. • Urging President Barack Obama to tap the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. • Ending taxpayer funded subsidies for Big Oil. In addition to being a leading advocate for the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act last year, Larson introduced the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act to stop price gouging on gasoline, and co-sponsored the PUMP Act, which included strong provisions to increase the transparency of energy derivatives trades that were eventually rolled into Wall Street reform. Since the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted, Larson has pushed the Commodity Futures Trading Board to move quickly to implement the law, including personally pressing Chairman Gary Gensler to enforce the provisions related to energy trades. ###
05.27.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will hold a press conference Tuesday morning to highlight the impact that oil speculation has on oil and gas prices. According to an April 2011 Goldman Sachs report, unregulated speculation adds over $20 to the price of a barrel of oil. Additionally, during a Senate hearing on oil tax subsidies, Exxon/Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson recently admitted that a barrel of oil should cost $60-$70 based solely on supply and demand. This past week in Washington, Republicans in the House of Representatives voted out of Committee a bill to delay implementing many of the provisions in last year’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform bill that look to crack down on excessive oil speculation just as the federal government announced charges of market manipulation against five oil speculators from Oklahoma. Joining Congressman Larson Tuesday Morning will be Executive Director of ICPA (Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association), Gene Guilford and former Republican Mayor of South Windsor John Mitchell, who is a longtime proponent of regulating speculators. WHAT: Congressman Larson to hold press conference on excessive oil speculation WHEN: Tuesday, May 31, 2011 – 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Legislative Office Building Room 1B 300 Capitol Avenue Hartford, CT 06106 ###
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in support of President Barack Obama's veto threat over any defense bill that could provide additional taxpayer dollars for the GE/Rolls Royce F-35 "Extra Engine." "I commend President Obama for his continued opposition to the Alternate Engine program and his willingness to veto any defense bill that would allow additional taxpayer funding to be spent on the GE/Rolls Royce F-35 'Extra Engine,'" Congressman Larson said. "This program is the epitome of government waste, one that Secretary of Defense Robert Gates himself referred to as an 'unnecessary and extravagant expense.' Despite calls for termination of this program by two presidents, the senior leadership at the Air Force, Navy, and Marine Corps, and the Congress, forces in Washington continue to try to resurrect the project. At a time when America is working to tackle a $14 trillion deficit, this type of government waste must be eliminated." ###
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) today applauded a new directive by President Obama that requires all federal agencies to switch to 100% advanced vehicles by 2015. Advanced vehicles include those that run on alternative fuels such as natural gas, as well as hybrid, electric and biofuel vehicles. The new Presidential directive is intended to help the nation reach the goal of reducing oil imports by 1/3 by 2025 and reinforces Larson’s plan to expand the use of natural gas in the transportation sector. “I want to applaud President Obama for once again showing terrific leadership in helping our country end its dangerous addiction to foreign oil,” Congressman Larson said. “At a time when high gas prices are creating a heavy burden for American families and putting our economic recovery in jeopardy, we must look towards alternative fuels that are better for our environment and easier on our wallets, like natural gas. Requiring federal agencies to move away from gas powered vehicles compliments my work in the Congress to enact the NAT GAS Act, which will dramatically reduce our nation’s dependency on foreign oil by incentivizing the use of natural gas vehicles. Currently, 69% of the oil we consume in the U.S. is for transportation, two-thirds of which we import from foreign nations. We simply can’t afford to keep shipping our money to other countries to keep our cars on the road. I’m glad the President is making the government lead by example.” The NAT GAS Act enjoys wide bipartisan and bicameral support, with over 185 Democrats and Republicans in the House endorsing the bill, including the moderate Blue Dog Coalition. Additionally, the bill has the support of energy tycoon, T. Boone Pickens, who includes natural gas as part of the ‘Pickens Plan.’ “Natural gas is affordable, abundant and American,” Larson added, “it’s cheaper than diesel fuel and we have enough of a supply in the United States to last more than 100 years. It’s a great first step to wean ourselves off foreign oil.” In addition to the NAT GAS Act, Congressman Larson has also been an outspoken proponent of using Hydrogen Fuel Cells as an alternative to gasoline. ###
05.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) blasted House Republicans on the Financial Services Committee following their vote to delay consumer protections under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that are intended to prevent excessive speculation on gasoline. The vote broke down along partisan lines with every Republican on the panel voting in favor of delay. According to an April 2011 analysis by Goldman Sachs, unregulated speculation adds over $20 per barrel to the price of oil. Since 1990 the number of oil speculators has more than doubled with their percentage of the market growing from 30 percent then to nearly 70 percent today. Recently during a Senate hearing on oil tax subsidies, Exxon CEO Rex Tillerson admitted that a barrel of oil should cost $60-$70 based solely on supply and demand. “With the summer months rapidly approaching Americans need relief from high gas prices,” Congressman Larson said. “Last Congress, lawmakers fought very hard to pass meaningful Wall Street reforms that crack down on many of the practices that led to the 2008 financial collapse. Among those reforms was legislation aimed at reining in excessive oil and gas speculation. Today’s vote by House Republicans to delay these important consumer protections is irresponsible and shows complete indifference to American families who are struggling to pay bills because of the high cost of gasoline.” “Americans cannot wait any longer for relief from high gas prices. Republicans won’t cut big oil subsidies and now they refuse to stop speculators from driving up the price of gas. The simple question here is whose side are you on – consumers or big oil?” In addition to being a leading advocate for the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act last year, Larson helped introduce the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act to stop price gouging on gasoline, and co-sponsored the PUMP Act, which included strong provisions to increase the transparency of energy derivatives trades that were eventually rolled into Wall Street reform. Since the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted, Larson has pushed the Commodity Futures Trading Board to move quickly to implement the law, including personally pressing Chairman Gary Gensler to enforce the provisions related to energy trades. ###
05.24.2011	NEWINGTON, Conn. – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will hold a town hall meeting this Friday at the Newington Senior and Disabled Center to discuss how the Republican Budget will affect senior citizens throughout the state and country. Under the Republican Budget, which was passed over unanimous Democratic opposition last month, Medicare and Medicaid would see major changes. Among those changes is an end to Medicare as it currently exists, which will result in seniors paying over $6,000 more in out-of-pocket medical expenses per year. At the same time the GOP budget provides billionaires and corporations with even larger tax breaks at the expense of key programs that assist working families. To date over national 470 organizations, including AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Council on Aging and Leadership Council of Aging Organizations announced opposition to the Republican plan. The event is open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. WHAT: Larson to hold town hall on GOP plan to end MedicareWHEN: Friday, May 27, 2011 – 10:30 a.m.WHERE: Newington Senior and Disabled Center 120 Cedar Street Newington, CT 06111 ###
05.17.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) applauded the Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration (EDA) announcement this afternoon of a $1.15 million grant to fund reconstruction of Riverside Drive in East Hartford. The project is intended to help better link Goodwin College in East Hartford with the community. “Today’s announcement of federal funding for the Riverside Drive reconstruction project is terrific news for our community,” Congressman Larson said. “Late last year, I pressed EDA on the importance of federal investment in East Hartford and this project in particular, so I’m very glad to see these funds coming to our community. Not only will this project put residents to work, but it will provide an invaluable service for Goodwin College students and faculty as well as residents throughout East Hartford. The town of East Hartford, Goodwin College and the Metro Hartford Alliance have all been great partners in seeing this project through and I can’t thank them enough for their efforts.” The EDA estimates 185 new jobs will be created by the project. “Goodwin College is very excited that permanent repairs will be made to Riverside Drive and its infrastructure,” Goodwin President Mark Scheinberg said. “This road has been in very poor condition for years, and the improvements will support current and future development along Riverside Drive, as well as critical linkages to both the campus and other planned projects such as the multiuse trail network into Rentschler field. Last summer, the college spent over $150k of its own money to make temporary repairs, and we have committed $300k to the required match for the grant.” Last October, Congressman Larson communicated the how crucial economic development funding is for the Metro Hartford Region with Willie Taylor, Regional Director of the EDA. The Congressman also coordinated multiple meetings between East Hartford project stakeholders and the EDA regional office. ###
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) blasted a plan by House Republicans to delay consumer protections under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that are intended to prevent excessive speculation on gasoline. According to an April 2011 analysis by Goldman Sachs, unregulated speculation adds over $20 per barrel to the price of oil. “Americans need relief from high gas prices. We should not have to pay a premium when we fill up to cover bets made on Wall Street,” said Larson, who has been a leading advocate in Congress to reign in oil speculation. “That’s why the Republican plan to delay important consumer protections, including those against oil and gas speculation, is simply irresponsible.” “Last Congress, we fought hard to pass meaningful Wall Street reforms, which ensures banks can no longer hold our economy hostage by being ‘Too Big to Fail’, enacts important consumer protections, and reforms how oil and gas is traded to prevent abuses and excessive speculation,” Larson added. “The plan advocated by House Republicans would prevent many of these important protections from taking effect for another 18 months or more. Americans cannot wait any longer for relief from high gas prices. Republicans won’t cut big oil subsidies and now they refuse to stop speculators from driving up the price of gas. The simple question here is whose side are you on – consumers or big oil?” Over the years Larson has worked closely with leaders throughout the first district, such as former Republican Mayor of South Windsor John Mitchell, in bringing the issue of abusive and excessive oil speculation to Washington. In addition to being a leading advocate for the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act last year, Larson helped introduce the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act to stop price gouging on gasoline, and co-sponsored the PUMP Act, which included strong provisions to increase the transparency of energy derivatives trades that were eventually rolled into Wall Street reform. Since the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was enacted, Larson has pushed the Commodity Futures Trading Board to move quickly to implement the law, including personally pressing Chairman Gary Gensler to enforce the provisions related to energy trades. ###
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON – At a House Ways and Means Committee Hearing today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT) asked the Chief Financial Officers of four major U.S. companies what the ramifications of Congress not acting on the need to raise the debt limit in a timely manner would be for their businesses. The response was unanimous. All four CFO - Greg Hayes of United Technologies Corporation, Edward Rapp of Caterpillar, James Crines of Zimmer Holdings, and Mark Buthman of Kimberly-Clark – agreed. It “would be devastating to the world economy.” >> Watch The Clip < < TRANSCRIPT: Chairman Larson: Following up on the line of questioning that a couple of my colleagues had, and Mr. Thompson specifically, and knowing that the United States is currently – and this Congress is currently – dealing with raising the debt limit. What’s your feeling on that? Do you think there should be a clean raise? What are the ramifications of not acting on this in a timely basis for your companies? Greg Hayes, CFO of United Technologies Corp.: You know, Congressman Larson, I think it would be devastating to the world economy, not just to the U.S. economy and not just to UTC, if Congress failed to raise the debt limit. The full faith and credit of the U.S. government is the basis upon which the entire world financial system revolves around. If we think that the problems back in 2008, with the Lehman crisis, were devastating, a default by the U.S. government would have repercussions beyond anything we saw in 2008 and 2009. So we would encourage Congress to raise the debt ceiling. Chairman Larson: This isn’t a process then from the perspective of business of dealing with a credit card. This is a matter of default. That’s how critical this is. Greg Hayes: That’s correct. Edward Rapp, CFO of Caterpillar Inc.: You know, for us, we’re seeing improvements in our business around the world, but it’s still a pretty fragile economy. The last thing we need now is another, if you would, shot across the bow that creates disruption in terms of the global financial markets. So we’re counting on the fact that Congress is going to come together and figure out, you know, the right thing to do here. James Crines, CFO of Zimmer Holdings Inc.: I don’t think I could say it any better than Mr. Hayes, Congressman, and I agree with his remarks. Mark Buthman, CFO of Kimberly-Clark Corp.: Confidence in the quality of our U.S. government debt, and the U.S. dollar, are critical to running our business, and, and, really, our worldwide issues. # # #
05.13.2011	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of lawmakers reintroduced the Lifelong Learning Accounts Act (LiLA) today to encourage continued education as a way to improve job skills and promote individuals’ marketability. The bill, reintroduced by Congressmen John Larson (CT-01), Peter Roskam (IL-06), Erik Paulsen (MN-03) and Jared Polis (CO-02), creates worker-owned, employer-matched savings accounts similar to 401Ks for ongoing learning. “The best way to ensure that the United States is successful on a global scale is to have the best-educated work force in the world,” Congressman Larson said. “The Lifelong Learning Accounts Act offers incentives to both workers and employers to create a workforce that is highly-skilled and capable of adapting to emerging industries and business trends.” “In our modern economy, enhancing professional skill sets is crucial as jobs and careers change,” Congressman Roskam said. “Lifelong Learning Accounts create a foundation for retraining so people can pursue what’s important to them. It’s a win-win investment for employers and employees.” Employers and workers that choose to participate in LiLAs will be eligible for a tax credit for a portion of their contributions. Workers and employers may contribute up to $2,500 per year and the funds can be used to cover educational expenses including tuition, fees, books and other supplies. “One of my top priorities in Congress is ensuring that America’s workforce remains competitive in today’s global economy,” said Representative Paulsen. “A great way to drive innovation in the workplace is through the use of Lifelong Learning Accounts, which help Americans enhance their skills through education, while working. I look forward to working with my colleagues to promote the development of a strong, skilled, competitive American workforce.” “Lifelong learning is increasingly essential in an economy in which workers often change job fields or need to upgrade their skills in order to keep or secure new employment,” said Congressman Polis. “The Lifelong Learning Accounts Act is an innovative way to improve access to higher education. This legislation exemplifies the kinds of public-private partnerships that can have a positive, long-term impact on our economy.” LiLAs are different from traditional education savings programs in that they belong to workers, meaning if an individual leaves his or her job, the LiLA goes with them. Though they are not a substitute for other federal education-assistance programs, LiLAs can fill gaps that may not otherwise be covered by traditional funding opportunities. ###
05.11.2011	Note: Video of Congressman Larson’s remarks at today’s press conference is available here and by clicking on the image below. WASHINGTON – Energy legislation introduced this afternoon included a key component of Congressman John Larson’s New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act (NAT GAS Act). The bill, Building Our Clean Energy Future Now Act, stresses the importance of converting the transportation sector from diesel fuel to natural gas, and take steps toward improving our energy security. “The NAT GAS Act sets realistic expectations for how the United States can reduce its dependency on foreign oil by moving towards an increased use of natural gas throughout the transportation sector,” Congressman Larson said. “In addition to the environmental benefit, it is important to note that natural gas is abundant, affordable and American. Natural gas is cheaper than diesel fuel and we have enough of a supply in the United States to last more than 100 years.” Under this new legislation, introduced by Congressman David Cicilline (RI-1), individuals and businesses would have access to tax credits up to 80 percent of the incremental cost to purchase heavy-duty and 18- wheel trucks. Cicilline’s legislation is part of a larger, three-part “Clean Energy Jobs Now” plan promoted by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi. The other parts include the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act (which also includes NAT GAS Act provisions) and the Increasing American Energy Production Now Act. The NAT GAS Act enjoys wide bipartisan and bicameral support from over 180 Democrats and Republicans, including the moderate Blue Dog Coalition and President Barack Obama. Additionally, the bill has the support of energy tycoon, T. Boone Pickens, who includes natural gas as part of the “Pickens Plan.” ###
05.09.2011	HARTFORD – This morning Connecticut lawmakers, Pratt & Whitney Employees and United Technology Executives held a rally in celebration of recent news that the company has earned the contract for the next generation tanker as well as to celebrate the continued success of the F-35 project and stress the importance of defense manufacturing in Connecticut. “These contracts for the F135 engine and the aerial tanker will mean growth and jobs here in Connecticut and across all of Pratt & Whitney,” said Pratt & Whitney President David Hess. “The F135 is the only engine powering the F-35 today, and in testing it has recorded more than 88 flawless vertical landings, 845 flight tests and 1,200 flight hours. We’ve shown its performance and dependability, and that’s why there is no need for an extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter.” “Since before World War II Connecticut has been at the top of innovation and production in the defense industry,” Congressman John Larson (CT-01) said. “Today Pratt & Whitney, along with their parent company United Technologies have continued this tradition. As a lifelong resident of East Hartford with multiple Pratt employees in my family, I am so proud to have played a role in helping create an environment for them to succeed and will continue to fight to help ‘Keep the Eagle Flying.’” “We fought for this victory in Washington, but I guarantee you that we would not have celebrated today if it were not for the unmatched skills of Pratt & Whitney who made the Boeing KC-46, the most effective and affordable aircraft for the mission,” said Senator Joseph Lieberman (I-CT). “The workers of Pratt & Whitney have long been a source of immense pride for Connecticut. Their tireless efforts and commitment supply the equipment needed to defeat our enemies on the battlefield and keep America safe.” Additionally the lawmakers were joined by Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-06), who is the ranking member of House Appropriations Committee and Subcommittee on Defense. “Having been involved in the tanker competition since 2001, it was a great relief when the Pentagon announced in late February that these tankers were going to be produced in the United States, using the highest skilled, most capable American workers at Boeing in Everett, Washington and here at Pratt & Whitney in Connecticut,” Congressman Dicks said. “These are the people who - together with generations before them - have helped to maintain America’s technological edge, making U.S. aircraft superior to any potential adversary and sustaining family wage jobs for American workers.” "I am proud to be here today and applaud the hard work of everyone at Pratt as they strive to keep Connecticut at the forefront of American defense manufacturing. The contract for the new Air Force tanker and the end of the Joint Strike Fighter extra engine, along with the C-17 contract with India, are all big wins for the highly-skilled workers here at Pratt, keeping these critical jobs and bringing new jobs to our state," said Congresswoman DeLauro. "Continuing to strengthen the defense-industrial base here in Connecticut is a critical part of helping America to compete with the other economic power centers around the globe, and these recent successes are a great step forward in furthering that agenda." “From submarines on the shoreline to the next generation tanker at Pratt, Connecticut is increasingly where the Pentagon turns when it requires high-quality, cost-effective results,” Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) said. “This string of victories has bolstered our region by securing and growing critical jobs not just at Electric Boat and UTC, but at a network of subcontractors and small businesses that supply them, as well.” “The decision to end the extra engine program was a no-brainer. The White House didn’t want it, the Defense Department didn’t want it, taxpayers didn’t want it, and now the decision has been made. We also owe a debt of thanks to the Pentagon for awarding the refueling tanker contract to Boeing. Pratt & Whitney has been hard at work for decades building a skilled labor force and excellent reputation, and these victories demonstrate the success of their efforts. My administration is working to rebuild the state’s economy and stabilize the business environment and our Congressional delegation, especially Congressman Larson, should be congratulated for their efforts in helping ensure jobs stay in Connecticut,” said Governor Dannel P. Malloy. ###
05.06.2011	WEST HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) held a town hall this afternoon at the West Hartford Senior Center on the 2012 Republican budget that threatens to end Medicare as it currently exists. “The Republican plan balances the budget on the backs of seniors, students and the less fortunate,” Congressman Larson said. “The question we need to ask as a country is simple: do we stand with seniors who’ve spent their entire lives paying into Medicare and Social Security or do we stand with Republicans who’d rather provide more tax breaks to millionaires and companies that ship jobs overseas? Americans all agree that we need to cut the deficit, but we also expect a shared sacrifice to get us there. Under the Republican plan there is nothing fair and nothing shared.” The Republican Budget, which was passed over unanimous Democratic opposition last month, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security would all see major changes - with seniors and working families seeing higher costs and less service while billionaires and corporations get even deeper tax breaks. Recently over 470 national groups include AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Council on Aging and Leadership Council of Aging Organizations have opposed the Republican budget plan. Throughout the hour-long discussion Congressman Larson took questions from the large crowd of seniors in attendance. ###
05.06.2011	HARTFORD – Connecticut lawmakers and machinists from Pratt & Whitney will hold a rally this Monday in celebration of obtaining the contract of the next generation tanker project, the continued successes of the F-35 Project and to stress the general importance that defense contracting plays in the state’s manufacturing economy. Additionally the state lawmakers will also be joined by Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-06), who is the ranking member of House Appropriates Committee and Subcommittee on Defense. Beginning in March of this year, Pratt & Whitney successfully landed the major projects that will not only continue to help the company and region grow today, but also provide a full future generation with jobs. All Pratt & Whitney employees will have the opportunity to attend this event to celebrate this victory. WHO: Governor Dannel Malloy Senator Joseph Lieberman (I-CT) Congressman John Larson (CT-01) Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Congressman Norm Dicks (WA-06) East Hartford Mayor Marcia A. Leclerc Everett Corey (International Association of Machinists District 26) UTC Executives WHERE: Pratt and Whitney Museum Hanger Aircraft Avenue East Hartford, CT 06118 WHEN: Monday, May 9, 2011 – 11:30 a.m.
05.05.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) continued his call to end the massive taxpayer funded subsidies for Big Oil today, while reiterating his support for energy independence and new steps to provide consumers relief from rising gas prices. Larson is an original co-sponsor of the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act, which in addition to his work in promoting the NAT GAS Act, returns billions of dollars in tax breaks from Big Oil and takes practical steps to battle high gas prices. “At a time when Big Oil continues to take in billions of dollars in quarterly profits and the price of oil is selling at $112 per barrel, it is clear the taxpayer funded subsidies are no longer necessary,” Congressman Larson said. “Americans are paying nearly $4 per gallon nationwide and well over that mark in Connecticut. This bill offers immediate solutions to bringing down the price of gasoline.” Under the Taxpayer and Gas Price Relief Act, taxpayers are poised to save $31 billion over 10 years by eliminating three of the largest tax breaks that oil companies receive. Additionally, the bill saves taxpayers an additional $2 billion by fixing a flaw in 1998 and 1999 Gulf of Mexico oil leases. The bill also looks to ease pain at the pump by expanding the authority of the President to tap into the strategic petroleum reserves and help combat price gauging. Historically, releases from the reserves have been shown to bring down gas prices in the short term. Larson continued stressed the importance of achieving energy independence. “In the longer term, the only true way to lower gas prices is to reduce our dependence on oil and offer alternatives to fill up our vehicle,” said Congressman Larson. “That is why I introduced the NAT GAS Act, which will provide tax credits to manufacturers and to those who purchase natural gas vehicles. Natural gas is affordable, abundant and American. Deployment of 3.5 million heavy trucks that run on natural gas by 2035 would save at least 1.2 million barrels of oil per day compared to the status quo, which is more oil than we imported from Venezuela and Saudi Arabia in 2009.” The NAT GAS Act enjoys wide bipartisan, bicameral support from over 180 Democrats and Republicans, including the moderate Blue Dog Coalition and President Barack Obama. Additionally, the bill has the support of energy Tycoon, T. Boone Pickens, who includes natural gas as part of the “Pickens Plan.” ###
05.05.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will hold a town hall meeting this Friday in West Hartford to discuss how the Republican Budget will affect senior citizens throughout the state and country. Under the Republican Budget, which was passed over unanimous Democratic opposition last month, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security would all see major changes - with seniors and working families seeing higher costs and less service while billionaires and corporations getting even deeper tax breaks. Recently over 470 groups include AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Council on Aging and Leadership Council of Aging Organizations have written to Congress in opposition of the Republican plan. The event is open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. WHO: Congressman John Larson WHEN: Friday, May, 6 2011 – 11:45 a.m. WHERE: West Hartford Senior Center 15 Starkel Road West Hartford, CT 06117 ###
05.05.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the President’s appointment of the Honorable Christopher Droney to the U.S. 2nd Circuit Court of Appeals: “In Chris Droney, President Obama has made a great choice for the 2nd Circuit. He has the experience, temperament, and skills necessary to take on the immense responsibility of the job and the fairness and impartiality that makes a great judge. “I want to congratulate Chris on his appointment. I know he will continue to serve the Nation well in his new role.”
05.04.2011	Washington, D.C.— Congressman John Larson (CT-01) announced today that the NAT GAS Act will be included as part of the House Democrats “Make It In America” agenda for the 112th Congress. The Make It In America initiative supports job creation today, and in the future, by encouraging businesses to create products and innovate in the US while selling to the world. “The NAT GAS Act encompasses the basic principle of the ‘Make It In America’ initiative that when we make more products in America, all Americans can make it,” Congressman Larson said. “Legislation such as the NAT GAS Act focuses on tapping into the potential we already have in this country and providing incentives to expand that industry domestically. Natural gas is abundant, affordable, but most importantly` American. Passing the NAT GAS Act not only puts us on a path to energy independence, it has the potential to create over 600,000 jobs across the country that will last for generations to come.” This effort builds on House Democrats' actions to create jobs and continue growing the economy and focuses on investing in key priorities while cutting wasteful spending. The NAT GAS Act is one of many bills that include a range of issues that all help to create an environment where manufacturers and small businesses can expand and create jobs here in the US. Since launching the Make It In America agenda in the previous Congress, President Obama has signed six “Make It In America” bills into law: U.S. Manufacturing Enhancement Act: Makes it cheaper for American companies to obtain the materials they need to manufacture goods. Protecting American Patents: Helps unclog the backlog of 1.2 million patent applications so innovative ideas can move to market more quickly. Preventing Outsourcing: Prevents the outsourcing of U.S. jobs by closing tax loopholes that encourage companies to send U.S. jobs overseas. Small Business Jobs Act: Expands much needed lending to millions of small businesses and offers tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and fuel our economy, without adding a dime to the deficit. Energy Jobs and Training for Veterans Act: Provides grants for programs to provide on-the-job training, apprenticeship, real experience, and long-term employment in all energy fields. COMPETES Act: Establishes innovative technology federal loan guarantees for small- and medium-sized manufacturers and invests in science, technology, engineering, and math education. The NAT GAS Act enjoys wide bipartisan and bicameral support from over 180 Democrats and Republicans, including the moderate Blue Dog Coalition and President Barack Obama. Additionally, the bill has the support of energy Tycoon, T. Boone Pickens, who includes natural gas as part of the “Pickens Plan.” ###
05.04.2011	WASHINGTON — Congressman John Larson (CT-01) joined fellow Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee today in urging the Committee Chairman, Congressman Dave Camp (R-MI), to take up legislation that would eliminate subsidies for Big Oil. The letter comes as gas prices surge above $4 per gallon throughout the state and the “Big Five” oil companies reported a combined $32 billion in first quarter profits. “When American families are being forced to pay outrageous prices at the pump while Big Oil makes record profits year after year, it’s clear that their taxpayer funded subsidies are no longer necessary,” Larson said. “It’s time to take the money our government has been giving to oil companies every year and reinvest it into alternative fuel sources such as natural gas.” A copy of the letter, signed by all 15 Ways and Means Committee Democrats, can be viewed here: Dear Chairman Camp: We are writing to urge you to schedule a mark up in the near future to consider legislation to repeal tax subsidies for large integrated oil companies. As you know, Speaker Boehner recently said that Big Oil is going to pay its “fair share in taxes.” The Big Five oil companies reported a combined profit of $32 billion in the first quarter of 2011 alone. Repealing the three largest tax breaks for the Big Five oil companies would raise billions of dollars a year. More than a billion dollars a year of that comes from one tax break enacted under the last Republican Majority. This tax break, the Sec. 199 domestic manufacturing deduction, should never have benefited the Big Five in the first place. At a time when our constituents are feeling the pain of rising gas prices, it is unjustifiable that our tax code subsidizes Big Oil to the tune of billions of dollars a year. The Committee has a responsibility to ensure that our tax system is equitable, and we urge you to start by eliminating unjustified subsidies for large integrated oil companies. Sincerely, A copy of the letter can be viewed here: https://democrats.waysandmeans.house.gov/media/pdf/112/110502_SML_Oil_Letter_to_Camp.pdf ###
05.02.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on the announcement tonight by President Obama that Osama Bin Laden has been brought to justice: "The most wanted man in the world has been brought to justice by the American people. It is a historic moment, rivaled only by the demise of Adolf Hitler. "I want to commend President Obama and the men and women in uniform and in our intelligence service for their great efforts. I also want to commend President Bush, who rallied our nation in our moment of need on 9/11. Tonight’s spontaneous outbreak of national pride reminds me of the moment when Members of Congress set aside party differences and joined together on 9/11 to sing God Bless America on the steps of the Capitol. I hope we can all use this moment to come together and work to move the nation forward. "To those who still wish us harm, let this serve as notice - if you attack our nation, if you attack our citizens, no matter how long it takes, we will bring you to justice!"
04.26.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) held a “Wellness Forum” with leading doctors and industry experts this afternoon to focus on the preventive care measures of the Affordable Care Act and to highlight other efforts to increase the use of preventative care throughout the state, which will help control increasing healthcare costs. “Every year, this country spends billions of healthcare dollars on procedures and treatments that could have been avoided had proper preventive care been available,” Congressman Larson said. “Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, our country’s most vulnerable citizens now have increased access to preventive care. Today’s forum is intended to highlight the importance of preventive care, while helping raise awareness of new and existing programs that can help Connecticut residents.” Preventive care refers to healthcare aimed at preventing diseases and other conditions, rather than treatments designed to cure symptoms. Many chronic diseases such as heart disease, cancer, and diabetes – which are responsible for 7 of 10 deaths among Americans each year and account for 75 percent of the nation’s health spending – are often preventable. Unfortunately, often insurance does not cover preventive efforts, causing Americans to use these services at about half the recommended rate. Americans need to have both access to preventive care services and the knowledge of how they can make changes in their day to day life to stay healthy and prevent paying billions of dollars in unnecessary healthcare-related expenses. Under the Affordable Care Act, Connecticut has been awarded over $8 million from the Prevention and Public Health Fund for efforts related to improving preventive care, and over the next decade many additional programs and funding will enhance and build upon these efforts. Beneficiaries from the new legislation include the elderly, pregnant women, children and numerous other Americans. Depending on an individual’s age and health plan type, they may have increased access to services such as: · Blood pressure, diabetes, and cholesterol tests · Many cancer screenings · Counseling on such topics as quitting smoking, losing weight, eating better, treating depression, and reducing alcohol use · Routine vaccines for diseases such as measles, polio, or meningitis · Flu and pneumonia shots · Counseling, screening and vaccines for healthy pregnancies For more information on preventive care services that the Affordable Care Act offers, visit Healthcare.gov. ###
04.20.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) and Judith Stein of the Center for Medicare Advocacy met with seniors in Wethersfield and Manchester today to discuss the proposed 2012 Republican budget, which will end Medicare and drastically weaken Medicaid and Social Security. “Americans all agree that we need to cut the deficit, but we also expect a shared sacrifice to get us there,” Congressman Larson said. “The Republican plan balances the budget on the backs of seniors, students and the less fortunate. This proposal offers a clear choice for Americans: do we stand with seniors who’ve spent their entire lives paying into Medicare and Social Security or do we stand with Republicans who’d rather provide more tax breaks to millionaires and companies that ship American jobs overseas? Under the Republican plan, there is nothing shared and nothing fair.” The Republican Budget, pushed through the House last week without a single Democratic vote, would make significant cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social causing seniors and working families to pay higher costs for less service while millionaires and corporations receive larger tax breaks. Recently over 470 groups including AARP, National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, National Council on Aging and Leadership Council of Aging Organizations wrote to Congress in opposition of the Republican plan. Beginning with a stop at the Deane-Webb House in Wethersfield, Larson and Stein explained the Republican proposal and took questions from local seniors. Following the Deane-Webb House visit, Congressman Larson went on to the Manchester Senior Center. “I am delighted to join Congressman Larson in his efforts to protect Medicare while pursuing real savings for taxpayers and the federal budget,” Stein said. “To do this we need to support the Congressman in his efforts to preserve Health Care Reform and to reject proposals to eliminate Medicare and replace it with a voucher system.” ###
04.15.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) vowed to continue to fight Republican attempts to eliminate Medicare following passage of the Republican budget in the House of Representatives today without a single Democratic vote. “Rather than attempt to address the real causes of our deficit, today Republicans pushed through an ideologically-driven budget that will end Medicare as we know it,” Congressman Larson said. “This is a defining moment for the nation in terms of whether or not we're going to stand with the elderly, whether or not we're going to stand with people who have paid into a Medicare system, or whether we will allow Republicans to unconscionably provide even more tax breaks for billionaires while balancing that on the backs of seniors.” Under the Republican budget, Medicare’s guaranteed benefit is turned into a voucher program that will ultimately result in seniors paying over $6,000 more in healthcare costs every year, while millionaires get huge new tax breaks. Additionally, the GOP budget puts insurance companies in charge of healthcare for seniors while giving tens of billions of dollars in tax breaks to Big Oil companies and businesses that ship American jobs overseas. “To target seniors and the less fortunate, without asking the wealthiest Americans to sacrifice at all, is morally reprehensible,” said Congressman Larson. “This country was founded on a basic notion of fairness and shared sacrifice. What we see in the Republican budget is little that is fair and nothing that is shared. Under the Ryan plan the Americans that are being forced to sacrifice the most are seniors, children and the men and women that wear the uniform.” Today’s vote in the House marks the start of the budget process for the year. ###
04.15.2011	HARTFORD – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Tammy Duckworth will participate in a forum hosted by the Partnership for Strong Communities on homelessness among veterans in Connecticut. As a former Black Hawk pilot, Assistant Secretary Duckworth brings a unique understanding and experience to the Department of Veterans’ Affairs. While serving in Iraq, Asst. Secretary Duckworth’s aircraft was shot down by insurgents, and as a result she lost both legs and the partial use of one arm. She has since received multiple decorations for her service, including a Purple Heart, the Air Medal and the Combat Action Badge. The event’s official title, “The Goal from Here: Ending Homelessness Among Veterans in Connecticut,” will feature remarks from Maj. Duckworth and a panel discussion with leaders from across the state involved in addressing veterans homelessness in Connecticut. The event is open to the public and all are encouraged to attend. WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs Tammy Duckworth Partnership for Strong Communities WHEN: Monday, April 18, 10:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. WHERE: The Lyceum Resource and Conference Center 227 Lawrence Street Hartford, CT 06106 ###
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON – Lawmakers from Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont urged U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) Administrator Joseph C. Szabo today to support a High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application that would transform the Amtrak-owned New Haven-Hartford-Springfield line for high-speed service and provide an important gateway for expanding passenger rail throughout New England. In a letter to Secretary LaHood and Administrator Szabo the lawmakers stressed the importance the grant would play in connecting the citizens of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont and spurring economic development in communities along the rail line. The full text of the letter is as follows: April 14, 2011 Honorable Ray LaHood Honorable Joseph C. SzaboSecretary AdministratorU.S. Department of Transportation Federal Railroad Administration Dear Secretary LaHood and Administrator Szabo: We write to you in support of the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) grant application submitted by the State of Connecticut, in partnership with Amtrak, Vermont and Massachusetts, to fund Phase 3 of the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield (NHHS) rail project. This important project will transform the Amtrak-owned NHHS rail line into a major passenger rail gateway connecting the communities of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont, and will create an integrated passenger rail network across New England and the broader Northeast Corridor. Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont, in partnership with Amtrak, are all committed to a vision of expanded high-speed passenger rail in New England. Completion of the NHHS project is essential to achieving this vision. The NHHS corridor is located in the most densely-populated region of the country and will link communities along the rail line, relieve road congestion, and benefit the environment by reducing harmful emissions. Along with important environmental and energy use benefits, the project will create an estimated 12,940 new construction-related jobs. Once the project is completed, it will serve as a catalyst for transit-oriented development and will lay the foundation for sustained economic growth. Most importantly, the improvements will facilitate development of one of the best intercity passenger rail networks in the nation and enhance multi-modal connections to regional commuter and high-speed trains, Bradley international Airport, and the planned New Britain-Hartford Busway. The Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) has awarded two grants to Connecticut totaling $160.9 million to upgrade the NHHS rail corridor. This funding, along with $162 million in matching funds from Connecticut, is only sufficient to upgrade phases 1 and 2 of the line between New Haven and Hartford. Phase 3 is required to extend the improvements to Springfield, and to provide the capacity for increased Amtrak service to Vermont and Massachusetts. Thus, completing the NHHS rail project is essential not only to achieve Connecticut’s passenger rail plans, but to achieving the transportation objectives of the entire multi-state region. Connecticut is applying for $227 million in federal funding to complete the NHHS rail project and to provide the rail corridor with the capacity to meet the long-term needs of all three states. This will be matched with $97.3 million in state funds. Together with Connecticut’s matching funds for Phases 1 and 2 of the project, the state is contributing a total of $259.3 million – 40 percent – towards the cost of upgrading the NHHS rail corridor. In addition, Connecticut is providing the train equipment and maintenance and yard facilities in New Haven at no expense to the project. This level of state funding and in-kind match exceeds that of any other state applying for HSIPR funding. The NHHS rail project includes increasing train speeds to 110 mph, restoring a second track removed in the 1980s, implementing important rail operations and at-grade crossing safety improvements, and upgrading stations in both Connecticut and Massachusetts. These improvements can be implemented within five years. The Environmental Assessment will be completed before the end of this year, design work will be completed in 2013, and Amtrak is planning to install the new track in 2014. Connecticut already owns the equipment that will be used initially on the line and new service is expected to start by 2016. Once completed, the rail line will support approximately 50 daily passenger trains providing fast, frequent, and reliable service. This project is worthy of federal support and can serve as a successful example of high-speed passenger rail service for the rest of the country. On behalf of our states and the communities we serve, we urge you to positively consider Connecticut’s application to complete the NHHS Rail Project and to assist in the resurgence of passenger rail throughout New England. Sincerely, ___________________________JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN United States Senator ___________________________RICHARD BLUMENTHAL United States Senator ___________________________JOHN F. KERRY United States Senator ___________________________PATRICK J. LEAHY United States Senator ___________________________BERNARD SANDERS United States Senator ___________________________ROSA L. DELAURO Member of Congress ___________________________JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress ___________________________JOE COURTNEY Member of Congress ___________________________CHRISTOPHER MURPHY Member of Congress ___________________________JAMES A. HIMES Member of Congress ___________________________RICHARD E. NEAL Member of Congress ___________________________JOHN W. OLVER Member of Congress ___________________________JAMES P. MCGOVERN Member of Congress ___________________________MICHAEL E. CAPUANO Member of Congress ___________________________STEPHEN LYNCH Member of Congress ___________________________WILLIAM R. KEATING Member of Congress ___________________________PETER WELCH Member of Congress Cc: Dannel P. Malloy Governor of Connecticut Joseph H. Boardman President & CEO, Amtrak
04.14.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on President Obama’s speech on reducing our long-term deficit: “President Obama went straight to the American public today with a plan to grow the economy, create jobs and get the deficit under control without putting the burden on the backs of seniors who depend on Medicare or live in nursing homes, or on workers who’ve lost their health care, or on our veterans or students and their families. They’ve all sacrificed enough already. That’s the key difference between our vision for the nation and the Republican’s: shared sacrifice and fairness. “I applaud the President for drawing a line in the sand – with respect to our seniors and Medicare and Social Security, and for the basic fairness that all Americans deserve.” # # #
04.12.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement in support of today’s observance of Equal Pay Day: “Whether they’re a lawyer, a doctor, a factory worker, or a truck driver, women in America are paid significantly less every day for the same amount of work. That’s simply unfair. Dating back to my work with the Permanent Commission on the Status of Women in the Connecticut State Senate, I have always been a strong supporter of fair pay issues - as well as family and medical leave and child care – and I was proud to vote for recent legislation such as the Lily Ledbetter Fair Pay Act that has helped reduce pay inequality. But with women earning, on average, just seventy seven cents for every dollar men make, clearly more needs to be done. “From Harriet Beecher Stowe to Rosa DeLauro, Connecticut women have helped lead the nation in the great labor and civil rights movements that have shaped us as Americans. With their help, we’ll keep fighting until all Americans can get the same pay for the same day’s work.” ###
04.11.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) held a telephone town hall today to inform thousands of senior citizens about the proposed Republican budget that would end Medicare as we know it, increase out-of-pocket costs for seniors and severely cut long-term care services. “Seniors in our community need to be aware that the proposed Republican budget is an end to Medicare as we know it in this country.” Congressman Larson said. “Today’s call was an excellent opportunity to speak with seniors and hear from them directly as budget negotiations continue to move forward in Washington.” The proposed Republican budget, introduced by the chairman of the House Budget Committee Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), offers a 10-year plan that would significantly cut Medicare to reduce the deficit. Additionally, under the Republican plan seniors would see the “donut hole” reopen, causing prescription drug costs to skyrocket. “Tackling our national deficit should be a legitimate goal of this Congress and deserves attention during budget negotiations,” said Congressman Larson. “However, to balance the budget on the backs of our senior citizens and poor is completely unacceptable when corporations are still receiving tax breaks for shipping American jobs overseas and oil companies continue to receive massive subsidies.” The call attracted 5,905 total seniors with over 225 questions submitted. ###
04.09.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after announcement of a spending agreement between White House, Senate and House of Representatives leaders: “Last night, Republicans took the nation to the brink, not over deficits, but over a social agenda; impeding economic recovery and boasting that this is just the start of what they want to do. Their next target: Medicare, Social Security, and working families. While they bask in the glory of tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires, and no jobs created under their watch, I am committed to fighting for working people in my district, and for Social Security, Medicare, and the jobs that are critical for my constituents.”
04.06.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Assistant Senate Majority Leader Dick Durbin (D-IL) and House Democratic Caucus Chairman John Larson (D-CT) introduced the Fair Elections Now Act today, a bill that will dramatically change the way we finance Congressional elections. Under the new law, qualified, legitimate candidates will receive grants, matching funds, and television vouchers to run competitive campaigns based on small dollar donors, not special interest money from lobbyists and corporations. “Americans would be shocked if they knew how much time Members of Congress and candidates seeking office must spend dialing for dollars and attending fundraisers. Without a fundamental reform of the way we finance campaigns, we cannot bring real reform to Capitol Hill,” Durbin said. “Our bill will give candidates the opportunity to focus on dealing with our nation’s problems, not on chasing after campaign cash.” “Members go to Washington with all the integrity in the world and with the intention to serve their constituents and this great country, but the system of dialing for dollars has become corrosive,” added Larson. “The Fair Elections Now Act would put the Congress back in the hands of ordinary Americans by replacing big donor, special interest funded elections with Fair Elections so that lawmakers can focus on their constituents instead of lobbyists; and the issues instead of fundraising.” The Fair Elections Now Act would create a voluntary system that gives congressional candidates the option to stop raising huge sums of money, giving them more time to work on the people’s business. Candidates who participate in the Fair Elections process would agree to limit their campaign fundraising to the amounts raised from small dollar donors plus matching contributions from the Fair Elections Fund. The bill is cosponsored by Senators Boxer (D-CA), Franken (D-MN); Harkin (D-IA); Kerry (D-MA); Klobuchar (D-MN); Leahy (D-VT); Merkley (D-OR); Mikulski (D-MD); Sanders (I-VT) and Shaheen (D-NH). The House bill is lead by the bi-partisan efforts of Representatives Walter Jones (R-NC) and Chellie Pingree (D-ME) and enjoys the support of 46 co-sponsors. How the Fair Elections Bill Works: It’s voluntary – no candidate for Congress is compelled to use this system. Candidates must raise a minimum level of small individual contributions from people in their state, in order to demonstrate viability and qualify for the program. Once they qualify, candidates will abide by various restrictions and disclosure requirements. Qualified candidates will receive an up-front grant for their primary campaigns, and if nominated, another grant for their general election campaign. Candidates will also receive a 5:1 match for contributions of $100 or less from an individual; no individual may give more than $100 per election; that match will stop after a certain level is reached, but candidates may continue to raise donations of up to $100 per individual without a match. A new commission will administer the program, including the disbursal of funds and collection of reports. There is no overall spending limit. Candidates may continue to raise funds after they have reached the cap on their match. Participating candidates could take only individual contributions of $100 or less for their leadership PACs. No contributions, fundraising, or bundling will be allowed from PACs. There will be special provisions for candidates in uncontested races (at significantly lower funding levels). The following groups support the Fair Elections Now Act: Public Citizen; American for Campaign Reform; Common Cause; Brennan Center; Center Responsibility Ethics in Washington; Democracy Matters; Demos; NAACP; American Sustainable Business Council ; Rock the Vote; MoveOn.org Political Action; US Action; U.S. Public Interest Research Group; Alliance for Justice; Campaign for Community Change; CREW; Democracy for America; Fix Congress First; League of Conservation Voters; Main Street Alliance; People of the American Way; Progress Now; Progressive Change Campaign Committee; Public Campaign; and the Sierra Club. ###
04.06.2011	HARTFORD, CONN. – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) will host the 29th annual Congressional Art Competition for the regions high school students tomorrow evening. Created in 1982, the Congressional Art Competition is held in all 50 states, District of Columbia and United States territories, allowing the nation’s promising young artists an opportunity to showcase their skills. The event will be held at the Wadsworth Antheneum in Hartford and is open to the public. WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson Local High School Art StudentsWHEN: Thursday, April 7, 2011 5 p.m. – 7 p.m. WHERE: Wadsworth Antheneum – Hartford Courant Room 600 Main Street Hartford, CT 06103 ###
04.06.2011	HARTFORD, CONN. – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement in support of The Hartford’s decision to become one of the first businesses in the region to install electric vehicle charging stations: “More than ever Americans are embracing electric cars and I commend The Hartford for their leadership in becoming one of the first companies in the Hartford area to provide charging stations for their employees,” Congressman Larson said. “With the price of gas approaching, or exceeding, four dollars per gallon throughout the state it is clear that we must continue to pursue new ways to power our cars and trucks. Electric, along with other alternative fuels such as Natural Gas, is not only better for the environment, but will help end our country’s dangerous addiction to foreign oil.” ###
04.04.2011	HARTFORD, CONN. -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on Governor Malloy’s decision to approve the New Britain Busway. “I want to thank the governor for undertaking such a thoughtful process in making this decision. The Busway has been debated for years now, and the funding, if left unused, would simply go to another state. I also want to applaud the Governor for his commitment to working on a parallel path to bring rail to the region. From both a practical and an economic point of view, today's decision was a good one. The businesses in the greater-Hartford area will benefit greatly from being able to use both bus and rail. “I believe that Connecticut should have access to the best mass transportation system available and stand ready to work with Governor Malloy, CONNDOT and the United States Department of Transportation on this project to address any issues within our communities during implementation, construction and maintenance of the Busway” ###
04.04.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today on the March Jobs Report released by the Department of Labor: “Today’s jobs report is no April Fools’ joke - the private sector grew for the 13th straight month, adding 216,000 jobs and reducing unemployment to its lowest level in two years - but for the millions of unemployed Americans, I’m sure it felt like a bad one. “Locally, Pratt & Whitney has been on an impressive winning streak: beginning with the next-generation tanker deal, the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery, the decision to end the Joint Strike Fighter’s alternate engine program and, most recently, a deal to provide Indian airline IndiGo with 300 turbofan engines. These various accomplishments and deals will provide a new generation of jobs for our friends, family members and neighbors throughout the community. “Despite today’s good news we need to do better. There’s no question that we have to address the deficit, but we’ve got to do it in a way that creates jobs, keeps the economy growing, and protects American families. I stand ready to continue to fight for just that.” # # #
04.01.2011	Congressman Larson, Michelle Marion and her husband Joseph. WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) welcomed East Hartford High School's Michelle Marion to our nation's capital this week to honor her for her selection as the Connecticut Association of Schools "2011 Connecticut Assistant Principal of the Year". Marion was in Washington to attend a banquet honoring her and the other Principals of the year from across the country. "Michelle Marion is a fantastic administrator who encapsulates the best qualities of our educators," Congressman Larson said. "Her award is yet another example of the terrific community leaders we have throughout the first congressional district and East Hartford." Marion has been at East Hartford high school for 13 years, spending the first eight as a social studies teacher before assuming the post as Assistant Principal five years ago. "This award serves to highlight the programs that are special to East Hartford and is a testament to the hard work and dedication of the staff at East Hartford High School, because we are truly a team," Marion said. "For me, it's a great feeling to receive an award for something I love doing every day. The diversity and school pride of the students at EHHS make it a great place to work." East Hartford High School Principal Matthew Ryan nominated Marion for the award. Marion's most recent achievement involves the creation of "Connections," a program in which students work together to hit academic and personal goals, while also raising community awareness on specific issues. ###
04.01.2011	Introduces ‘Honoring Hometown Heroes Act’ to Allow the U.S. Flag to be Flown at Half-Staff For Fallen Hometown Heroes WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) introduced legislation today to allow the American flag to be flown at half-staff in the event of the death of a first responder in the line of duty. “First responders put their lives on the line to serve their communities on a daily basis and deserve the same recognition as public officials and our brave men and women in the Armed Forces,” Congressman Larson said. “These men and women are our friends, family and neighbors. In the event the unthinkable happens, they deserve the respect of having our flag flown at half-staff.” The inspiration for the Honoring Hometown Heroes Act came from Windsor resident Jim McLoughlin who petitioned Congressman Larson to pursue the change to U.S. Code, Title 4, which regulates the use of the American flag. McLoughlin is a Hartford firefighter and is the Founder and Board Chairman of the National Honor Guard Commanders Association. Currently, the law specifically allows the American Flag to be flown at half-staff following the death of any present or former government official or any member of the Armed Forces. ###
03.31.2011	HARTFORD, CONN. – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) congratulated Pratt & Whitney this afternoon on news that the company secured an order for 300 next-generation turbofan engines from Indian airline IndiGo. “The Pratt & Whitney-IndiGo Airlines deal, announced earlier today, is the latest success in a major winning streak for United Technologies and all of the men and women who comprise its workforce,” Congressman Larson said. “Beginning with the next-generation tanker deal, the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery and, most recently, the decision to end the Joint Strike Fighter’s alternate engine program, Pratt has enjoyed tremendous success. Pratt & Whitney is a model for what I have been saying is the key to economic recovery: ‘make it in America, sell it all over the world.’” In 2009, Congressman Larson hosted the Indian Ambassador to the United States Meera Shankar. During the visit, the Ambassador toured East Hartford’s Pratt & Whitney, met with United Technology executives and spoke with members of the UTC workforce. Pratt & Whitney has been a leader in next-generation turbofan production, an emerging market. The engine is quieter, cleaner, has lower operating costs and is more fuel-efficient than its competitors. “Today’s sale is a great example of how Pratt’s foresight to invest in the research and development of the turbofan is paying off for the company and our community,” said Congressman Larson. ###
03.31.2011	WASHINGTON – Congressman John Larson (CT-01) applauded President Barack Obama’s announcement of support for the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act (NAT GAS Act). “I commend President Obama for advocating a plan today that will finally address our nation’s overdependence on foreign oil and stop the never ending stream of money we send overseas,” Congressman Larson said. “This morning the President said that part of the solution is the increased use of natural gas vehicles, something that I am working precisely to address through legislation to be reintroduced next week. I look forward to working with the President on this important policy change.” Earlier this week Congressman Larson announced plans to reintroduce the bill within the next two weeks. Last year, despite widespread support, the bill did not receive a vote. During a speech on America’s energy future this morning at Georgetown University President Obama said the NAT GAS Act was an area of “broad bi-partisan agreement.” “Last year, more than 150 Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle proposed legislation providing incentives to use clean-burning natural gas in our vehicles instead of oil,” President Obama said. “They were even joined by T. Boone Pickens, a businessman who made his fortune on oil. So I ask them to keep at it and pass a bill that helps us achieve this goal." Pickens has made multiple trips to Connecticut in the last few years to discuss energy. In November of 2009 Pickens and Congressman Larson held a town hall meeting at Goodwin College in East Hartford where the two discussed the benefits of natural gas as an alternative to transportation fuel. ###
03.31.2011	HARTFORD, CONN. -- Congressman John Larson (CT-01) announced plans to reintroduce the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act (NAT GAS Act) as a means of battling high energy and gasoline prices Monday morning. “Natural gas is affordable, abundant and American,” said Congressman Larson. “It costs one-third less to fill up a vehicle with natural gas than traditional gasoline and, maybe more importantly, we have enough natural gas in the US to meet our energy needs for the next 100 years. Equally important, if we start making cars and trucks that run on natural gas, there’s the potential to create over a half a million American jobs.” According to a 2010 Department of Energy report, the cost of producing a kilowatt per hour of power using natural gas is cheaper then coal, nuclear, solar and wind. And the United States is estimated to have three times the equivalent amount of energy available compared to Saudi Arabia. The bill enjoys broad bi-partisan support, with Republican Congressmen John Sullivan (OK-01) and Kevin Brady (TX-08) and Democrat Dan Boren (OK-02), joining Larson as original sponsors. Last Congress the bill, which did not reach a vote in the House, was co-sponsored by 146 Members. “The NAT GAS Act takes a moderate approach to reducing our dependence on foreign oil by incentivizing American manufacturers to produce vehicles that run on American natural gas and encouraging American businesses and families to buy them,” Larson concluded. “With rising gas prices and growing instability in oil regions around the world, the time to act is now.” ###
03.24.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Joseph I. Lieberman (ID-CT) and Congressman John Larson (CT-01) today applauded the Department of Defense’s decision to stop work on the F136 alternate engine, a duplicative, wasteful program that our military does not want or need. “The termination of the alternate engine program is an essential step toward focusing our scarce defense dollars on the programs that will actually help keep America safer,” Lieberman said. “As American service members fight to defend our freedoms and safeguard human life across the world, I hope that today’s decision will allow Congress to set this long-debated matter aside and move on to the critical business of the American people.” “I applaud Secretary Gates for following through on his commitment to end the Joint Strike Fighter’s duplicative ‘extra’ engine program,” Congressman Larson said. “This program is the epitome of government waste, one that the Secretary himself referred to as an ‘unnecessary and extravagant expense.’ Today’s decision will save the American people nearly a million dollars a day and bring to close an issue that has been debated in Congress for more than 4 years. I hope that my colleagues will now join me in focusing our attention on more pressing national security matters. The Defense Department’s action comes after Congress has repeatedly voted in support of efforts by the President, the Secretary of Defense, and senior military leaders to end the duplicative program to develop an extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter. In 2009, the U.S. Senate unanimously adopted an amendment introduced by Lieberman to prevent additional funding for the F136 engine. Last month, the House overwhelmingly voted to terminate the alternate engine, as well. With the release of the fiscal year 2012 Defense budget, Secretary Gates said he would “look at all available legal options to close down [the Alternate Engine program]” if Congress failed to adopt a funding bill for the remainder of fiscal year 2011. On March 8, Lieberman and Larson (D-CT) sent a letter to Secretary Gates urging him to act on his authority to immediately terminate the program, which has cost American taxpayers almost a million dollars per day this year and would cost an additional $3 billion to complete development. Click here to read a copy of the March 2nd letter.
03.18.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today calling on the President to consult with the Congress before committing U.S. forces in support of UN Security Council Resolution 1973: “I commend President Obama for working with the UN and our allies to shape a strong international response to the violence in Libya and hope that Colonel Quadaffi adheres to his warning. However, I strongly urge him to consult with the Congress before committing U.S. forces in support of the UN Security Council Resolution. “As Secretary Gates and others have noted, military action is tantamount to an act of war, which would require substantial resources over a long period of time. Given our current fiscal constraints, and our military’s current responsibilities, this truly deserves a robust debate before we commit our young men and women in uniform. “If that means calling Members of Congress back from the District work period for a joint session, then that’s what we should do. It is imperative that Members of Congress, as the direct representatives of our constituents, have the opportunity to weigh in before decisions are made. “Using our military against another nation, even a brutal regime like Colonel Quadaffi’s, requires that Congress both be informed and exercise our constitutional authority.”
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on H.R. 1076, prohibiting federal finding of National Public Radio, which was rushed to the House Floor today: “Here’s more proof that the far right has hijacked the party of Lincoln. Once again, under the false pretense of deficit reduction, the Republican leadership is throwing red meat to their base by going after one of their regular boogiemen - National Public Radio. The only problem is that none of their claims are true. “The Congressional Budget Office says that barring federal funds from going to NPR wouldn’t reduce the deficit. It would, however, endanger thousands of jobs at local public radio stations around the country. “But this isn’t really about reducing the deficit. As the real GOP goal in Wisconsin was to end collective bargaining, and their goal with the federal budget is to get rid of Social Security, voucher Medicare, and close down the Department of Education, their goal here is to do away with a voice that runs counter to the nearly 2,000 right-wing radio stations on the air today. “This is all part of a larger ideological plan being pushed by conservative extremists like the billionaire Koch brothers to redefine America. And it’s time for everyone to stand up and say enough. America wants jobs, not partisan politics. “NPR plays a vital role in providing quality news programming and engaging our communities in thoughtful, non-ideological debate. There’s nothing else like it out there, which is why it enjoys strong support across the political spectrum. Where there are individuals who aren’t living up to that high standard, they should be asked to leave. But America shouldn’t be deprived of shows like All Things Considered and Morning Edition just because Glenn Beck and Rush Limbaugh don’t like the competition.”
03.16.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined with 124 Democratic colleagues to send a letter to Speaker John Boehner stressing the importance of protecting the essential operating budget of the Social Security Administration (SSA). H.R.1, the Republican spending bill passed by the House, cut the SSA's operating budget by $1.7 billion below the level needed to maintain basic service to the public. In reference to the letter Larson said: “Social Security is a public trust – dismantling it is not an option. The proposed cuts in the Republican budget are simply a continuation of the GOP’s full frontal assault on Social Security, working class families and our current and future seniors in order to protect their millionaire constituency. Social Security didn't cause the current deficit and the services provided by SSA are critical to the day-to-day lives of millions of American seniors. The proposed social security cuts would actually cost taxpayers money by failing to fully fund SSA’s fight against waste, fraud, and abuse. As I said after this year’s State of the Union Address, in order to invest for our future, we must take responsibility for our current deficit and make the necessary cuts to prioritize our overall goal of making a stronger, smarter, more competitive America. I applaud President Obama for his pledge to not accomplish this by privatizing social security or by placing the burden on the backs of our current and future seniors.” Click here to read the letter to Speaker Boehner.
03.15.2011	“We stand ready to work with our Republican colleagues to cut spending; but we have to do it without sacrificing jobs, our kids' education and our safety” WASHINGTON D.C. – Democratic Caucus Chairman John B. Larson (CT) released the following statement announcing that he will be voting against the short term spending bill on the House Floor today: “The American public wants leaders who can work together to find solutions to the big problems facing our nation. But it has become clear that the Republicans in Congress aren’t interested in working with Democrats to find a way to responsibly reduce the deficit while creating jobs for American families. The far right has hijacked the party of Lincoln, and we can no longer afford this death by a thousand slashes. “Watching the events that unfolded in Wisconsin, there is an analogy here that is very disturbing. Both in Wisconsin and here with the federal budget, the extreme conservatives running the GOP have used the deficit as their rational. But we saw last week that their real goal in Wisconsin was to end collective bargaining, and we’ll see soon that their goal with the federal budget is to get rid of Social Security, voucherize Medicare, and close down the Department of Education. “Republicans must stand up to the extremists in their party who would rather shut down the government than compromise on their reckless demands which would throw 700,000 more Americans out of work and weaken the middle class. “On behalf of the Democratic Caucus let me add that we stand ready to work with our Republican colleagues to cut spending; but we have to do it without sacrificing jobs, our kids' education and our safety. Our Caucus stands firm on Social Security, Medicare, and the education needed to drive innovation in this economy to out innovate, out educate, and out grow our competition. We know that the best way to reduce the deficit is to put Americans back to work; and that’s what we want to do.”
03.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman John Larson released the following statement today regarding the earthquake in Japan and tsunami affecting the Pacific region: “My thoughts and prayers are with the people of Japan and all those affected in the aftermath of today’s devastating earthquake and tsunami. Those who have suffered from this disaster should know that they have our sympathy and support. As President Obama outlined this morning, the United States stands ready to assist Japan as it begins its recovery efforts." "If you have a family member or friend in Japan please visit my website for information provided by the U.S. Department of Defense and State Department or contact my Hartford office at (860) 278-8888, if I can be of any assistance to you in working with departments and agencies within the U.S. Government to help reach your family members.” U.S. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE: U.S. Forces Japan reports that all personnel have been accounted for, and there are no reports of injuries. The Department of Defense instructs that family members of Department of Defense personnel should call 1-800-342-9647 to inquire about their loved ones or contact the individual unit command directly for more specific information. U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT: In accordance with this event a Travel Alert has been issued by the Department of State in Washington, D.C. and the following measures may need to be taken for American citizens currently in Japan and for families residing in the United States with relatives in Japan: U.S. citizens currently in Japan are strongly advised to contact family and friends in the United States to confirm their well-being at the earliest opportunity. Telephone lines may be down at the present moment. In order to make outside contact it may be necessary to utilize SMS (text messaging), E-mail, or other forms of social media (IE: Facebook, Twitter, MySpace). If without access to the internet, U.S. citizens should directly enroll at the U.S. Embassy or U.S. Consulates. U.S. citizens may contact the Department of State at JapanEmergencyUSC@state.gov and are encouraged to enroll in the Smart Traveler Enrollment Program (STEP) at the following website: https://travelregistration.state.gov If you have concerns about a specific U.S. citizen in the Tsunami zone outside of Japan, make contact with PacificTsunamiUSC@state.gov If you are an American citizen with an after hours emergency, you can contact the U.S. Embassy or Consulate nearest you. U.S. Embassy Tokyo Telephone (03) 3224-5000/ DSN 224-5000 Switchboard (For help for Americans in Tokyo, Chiba, Fukushima, Gunma, Ibaraki, Kanagawa, Nagano, Niigata, Saitama, Shaizuoka, Tochigi, Yamagata, and Yamanashi) U.S. Consulate General Osaka-Kobe Telephone (06) 6315-5900 (Osaka, Aichi, Ehime, Fukui, Gifu, Hiroshima, Hyogo, Ishikawa, Kagawa, Kochi, Kyoto, Mie, Nara, Okayama, Shimane, Shiga, Tokushima, Tottori, Toyama, Wakayma) U.S. Consulate General Naha Telephone (098) 876-4211 (Okinawa, and the Amami Oshima Island group) U.S. Consulate General Sapporo Telephone (011) 641-1115 (Akita, Aomori, Hokkaido, Iwate, and Miyagi) U.S. Consulate Fukuoka Telephone (092) 751-9331 (Fukuoka, Kagoshima, Kumamoto, Miyazaki, Nagasaki, Oita, Saga, and Yamaguchi) U.S. Consulate Nagoya Telephone (052) 581-4501 (Aichi, Gifu, Mie) * If you are calling regarding a Japanese citizen, please contact the nearest Japanese Embassy (Washington - 202-238-6700) or Consulate.
03.11.2011	Washington, DC – Congressmen John Larson (D-CT) and Charles W. Boustany (R-Southwest Louisiana) today introduced bipartisan legislation to improve fairness and equity in medical flexible spending accounts (FSA). Flexible spending accounts are meant to make it easier for families to put aside tax-free money for such expenses. However, many Americans have avoided establishing these accounts or have underfunded these accounts because any unused contributions must be forfeited back to their employer at the end of the year. With out-of-pocket health expenses rising over the past few years, flexible spending accounts are even more important to middle class families. The Medical Flexible Spending Account Improvement Act would repeal the "Use-or-Lose" provision. It would allow participants to cash out any remaining FSA balances at the end of the year, and those funds would be treated as normal, taxable wages. “Now is the time to finally eliminate the use or lose provision,” said Congressman Larson. “It is truly unfair that families must forfeit hard-earned dollars that they have reserved for health expenses if they remain in the account at the end of the year. I am proud to join my colleague, Dr. Boustany, in this bipartisan effort to eliminate this provision that has been in effect for far too long.” FSAs allow employees to take salary deductions to fund accounts to pay for out-of-pocket health expenses. Although these funds are part of employee salaries, they are excluded from taxes for the employee under the employer-provided insurance exclusion and can be used by account holders for a variety of necessary medical expenses. “Americans want health-care solutions that lower costs,” Boustany said. “FSAs are a great place to start. These accounts should not penalize individuals who save for medical expenses. We should eliminate this provision and empower consumers to make prudent health-care decisions. I will continue working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve quality, expand coverage and lower costs while strengthening the doctor-patient relationship.”
03.10.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and a bi-partisan group of U.S. lawmakers have launched a major effort to spur job creation and innovation by modernizing and making permanent the research and development (R&D) tax credit. "America is the world’s leading innovator – developing life-saving technologies, state-of-the art computer systems, and breakthrough manufacturing products – but we’re losing ground to competitors around the world," said Larson, the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees tax policy. "It’s time we get back on the playing field by modernizing the R&D tax credit and keeping American jobs and innovation here at home." The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 - H.R. 942 - would simplify and strengthen the R & D tax credit by increasing the “alternative simplified credit” by nearly 50% (from 14% to 20%) and making it permanent, while providing a one-year phase out period for the outdated “traditional credit”. Other leaders of the effort are Reps. Kevin Brady (R-TX), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Doris Matsui (D-CA), Erik Paulsen (R-MN) and Michael McCaul (R-TX). "Innovation drives America’s future,” said Brady, a senior member of the Ways and Means Committee and the sponsor of The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011. “To keep from falling behind our global competitors and to make sure America is the first choice for R & D jobs we need to modernize the tax credit, strengthen it to encourage companies to make greater investment in research and jobs and make the credit permanent so businesses have the confidence to make long-term investment decisions here in the United States.” American business leaders offered strong support for the legislation. “UTC is proud to partner with Congressman John Larson and his colleagues on legislation to modernize, enhance, and make permanent the R&D simplified credit. From elevators to jet engines to building systems, the people of United Technologies demonstrate every day how investments in research and innovation enable us to do more with less,” said Dr. J. Michael McQuade, Senior Vice-President, Science and Technology, United Technologies Corporation. The American Research & Competitiveness Act of 2011 promotes job growth and thriving communities in the United States, and this is certainly true for Connecticut. In 2010, UTC's R&D activities in Connecticut represented over two-thirds of the roughly $3 billion we spent in the in the U.S. and over half of our global total. These expenditures translate into engineers, scientists, and suppliers who pay taxes, fuel local economies, and support charitable causes and the arts. The bipartisan leadership of Congressman Larson and his colleagues on the federal R&D credit promotes American competitiveness and the good work being done in Connecticut. We look forward to working together to help enact an enhanced, modernized, and permanent credit for research activities and jobs in the United States." "Investment in R&D is critical for our nation's economic competitiveness and IBM applauds Representatives Brady and Larson in their effort to enhance and make permanent the alternative simplified Research and Development tax credit," said Christopher Padilla, Vice President, IBM Governmental Programs. "Throughout its 100 year history, IBM has demonstrated a strong commitment to funding scientific research, which has paved the way for societal breakthroughs such as missions to the moon, helping to map the human genome and most recently, a computing system named Watson that represents a new frontier of information science through its ability to understand natural language. The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 will help advance the next wave of innovations that will have positive implications for our society and help to further economic vitality for the United States."
03.09.2011	HARTFORD, CT -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that his office has been selected to participate in the House of Representatives’ Wounded Warrior Program. The program, established to create two-year fellowships that provide employment opportunities for veterans within the House of Representatives, will provide a wounded or a disabled veteran with experience and exposure working in a Congressional Office. “I’m thrilled that my office has been selected to participate in this worthwhile program,” commented Larson. “I am proud to represent a region that is home to thousands of veterans and I value both their insight on the issues and their leadership capabilities. I look forward to welcoming another veteran to my staff.” US House of Representatives Wounded Warrior Fellowship Program Vacancy Announcement Job Title: Veterans Case WorkerMember: Congressman John B. Larson Office Location: 221 Main Street, Hartford, CT 06106 Date Needed: Immediately Job Summary: The position is for a caseworker to work in the Congressional Office to facilitate and coordinate responses to a wide range of requests received from constituents. District caseworkers also help constituents interact with administrative and government agencies by acting as facilitators, ombudsmen and, in some cases, advocates. Job Duties and Responsibilities: The incumbent for this position will serve as a facilitator between constituents and federal, state, and local agencies as necessary as a representative of Congressman Larson. The caseworker will be required to communicate clearly with constituents about what can and cannot be done on their behalf by the Congressman’s office. The caseworker will be required to learn the laws, regulations and intricacies affecting a constituent’s case as well as the procedures and structure of Congress Larson’s office regarding casework and employee obligations, as outlined in Representative Larson’s Office Handbook and the House of Representative’s Ethics Manual. Additionally, the employee will be responsible to perform other duties as assigned by the Congressman, Chief of Staff, District Director and other staff members.Requirements: This program is limited to veterans who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, have a minimum 30% service connected disability rating from the VA and less than 20 years of service. High school degree required, some college courses preferred but not required. Professional education through the U.S. military is highly encouraged. Excellent communication and organizational skills. Recent experience with and understanding of the U.S. Military and Department of Veterans’ Affairs structure, procedures, and policies. Service-oriented, positive attitude, and strong teamwork ability.”Salary: Commensurate with experience.Contact: Interested veterans may go to www.cao.house.gov to learn more about the program and may submit their resumes, a DD214 and a letter from the VA indicating that they have a 30% or greater rating to housewoundedwarriors@mail.house.gov. Do not send resumes directly to the office of Congressman Larson.
03.08.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – In a letter released today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) encourage Defense Secretary Robert Gates to exercise his authority to end the F136 Alternate Engine program for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF). “The House and the Senate have both acted on this matter and are in agreement that the ‘extra’ engine program should be ended. Unfortunately, the ongoing budget battle is resulting in nearly a million dollars a day being wasted on this program which is now expected to be terminated,” said Larson. “As Secretary Gates himself has said, this program is ‘an unnecessary and extravagant expense’ and I hope he will now use his authority to once and for all bring it to a close so that we can put our limited resources to better use for our nation’s warfighters.” “Now that both the House and Senate have shown that they plan to cancel the alternate engine, it is time we bring this wasteful and unnecessary program to an end,” Lieberman said. “Congressman Larson and I stand with Secretary Gates in calling for this program’s termination, and we call on the Administration to act now.” Since 2007, Larson and Lieberman have been working with the President, the Secretary of Defense, and senior military leaders to end the duplicative alternate engine program. In 2009, the U.S. Senate, led by Lieberman, voted to prevent additional funding for the F136 engine. Last month, the House weighed in, voting to remove funding for the alternate engine from the budget. However, because work on the FY 2011 budget has not been completed, the program has been allowed to continue. With the release of the fiscal year 2012 Defense budget, Secretary Gates said he would “look at all available legal options to close down [the Alternate Engine program].” Now that Congress has clearly spoken on the issue, Larson and Lieberman are asking Secretary Gates to use his authority to follow through on his commitment. The full letter is below: Dear Secretary Gates, We write in strong support of your continued effort to end the F136 Alternate Engine program for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF). As you have said throughout your tenure with the Department of Defense, this program represents “an unnecessary and extravagant expense” that must be eliminated if we are to properly fund our nation’s warfighters. We couldn’t agree more, and it is with this sentiment that we respectfully request that you to take the necessary action to end this program at the conclusion of the current continuing resolution. As you know, in 2009 during debate on the FY10 National Defense Authorization Act, the Senate voted 59-38 in opposition to adding funding for the JSF Alternate Engine program. Subsequent to this vote, the Senate has not included funds for the extra engine in either the defense authorization or appropriations bills. In fact, on February 18, 2011, Senator Carl Levin, the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee stated in reference to funding the Alternate Engine program, that he, “doubt[s] very much [the Senate] will do it this year.” The comments by Chairman Levin came just days after action by the House of Representatives to terminate the Alternate Engine program. On February 16, 2011, the House approved by a vote of 233-198 an amendment offered by Representative Tom Rooney that struck all funding for the Alternate Engine program from the proposed Department of Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2011. This action puts the House on the record as opposing all funding for the Alternate Engine program through the remainder of fiscal year 2011, and should provide you with the flexibility to terminate funding for the program at the end of the current continuing resolution. With the release of the fiscal year 2012 Defense budget you stated, “I will look at all available legal options to close down [the Alternate Engine program].” We appreciate your strong position on this matter and hope that later this week you will be allowed to follow through on your commitment to end the program. The House and Senate have both spoken on this matter. It is time that we stop wasting nearly $1 million per day to continue a program that will surely be terminated. Thank you again for the continued leadership you provide our nation’s Armed Forces. We look forward to your prompt response on this matter.
03.04.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to the budget proposal released today by Senate Democrats that would eliminate the F-35 alternate engine. “I am pleased that the Senate followed in the House’s footsteps to save taxpayers $3 billion by eliminating the wasteful and unnecessary F-35 alternate engine program. This is a victory for local manufacturers, our talented workforce, and the American taxpayer. “This decision moves us one step closer to permanently ending a program that the military does not want and our country cannot afford. “I thank my Senate colleagues for their leadership in this critical matter. I especially commend Senator Joe Lieberman for his partnership in this long fight and the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation for their steadfast commitment to this effort.”
03.04.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to EADS' decision to not protest the Air Force's KC-X Tanker contract. "A decade long process has finally come to an end. I’m proud that Boeing tankers, powered by Pratt & Whitney engines, made in America, will support our troops for decades to come. "This is truly a huge win for the Armed Forces, who have been waiting for a new tanker way too long, and the highly skilled, highly trained Connecticut workforce. The Obama Administration responded to the call of Make It In America and their decision will help keep critical manufacturing jobs and skills here in the U.S. instead of sending them to Europe. “The Tanker contract will ensure steady work for decades to come for the men and women who comprise the Connecticut aerospace industry. When combined with the House of Representative’s recent action to end the JSF Alternate Engine program, this decision will support and create jobs all across the state.”
03.03.2011	WASHINGTON D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today objected to H.R. 4, the House Republican plan to repeal the 1099 tax filing requirements that were created as part of the new health care law because Republican leaders chose to pay for the repeal by raising about $25 billion in taxes on middle income families. “I’ve heard from small business owners from across my district on how difficult these new tax reporting requirements are for them, and I strongly support their repeal. In fact, I voted to roll them back on the House Floor last year,” said Larson, who is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee, which oversees tax policy. “What I have not heard is anyone saying that we should do it by raising taxes on working families. And that’s what this bill would do.” “I was proud to support legislation last year that would have repealed this requirement and paid for it by closing tax loopholes that ship American jobs overseas,” Larson added. “Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress objected to closing those loopholes that are costing us jobs. Apparently, those objections don’t apply to increasing the burden on hard-working middle class families.” The National Taxpayer Advocate has reported that the new 1099 reporting requirements would adversely affect millions of small businesses around the country. There is broad consensus that the provision should be repealed, however, repealing it would cost nearly $25 billion, which must be offset by savings elsewhere. The Senate already passed a similar bill that would repeal the provision, but pay for it through spending cuts. “I strongly support the repeal of the 1099 provision, but I don’t believe we should be doing it by increasing taxes on middle class families. They’re already paying more than their fair share, I simply can’t vote to increase their burden,” Larson concluded. “I hope the Republican Leadership will follow the Senate’s lead and repeal this provision without raising taxes on working families.”
03.02.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement today on the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) appointing former Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: “The MPAA made a wise choice with the selection of Chris Dodd to be their new Chairman and CEO. Like so many people in Connecticut, I’m thrilled for Chris, Jackie and their daughters. “Chris Dodd’s demonstrated ability to collaborate, network and bring people together was honed in the Senate. His humanity, gregarious nature, compassion and humor are what endear him to all and will serve him well in his new endeavor.”
02.24.2011	Hartford, CT – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement applauding the U.S. Air Force decision to award the KC-X Airborne Tanker contract to Boeing: "The U.S. Air Force made the right decision today and American manufacturers and our workforce are the beneficiaries. "The Boeing tanker, powered by Pratt & Whitney engines, is more cost efficient to own and operate and will serve our fighting men and women for decades. The Obama Administration has responded to the call of Make It In America and this will help keep critical manufacturing jobs and skills here in the U.S. instead of sending them to Europe. “With today’s decision, local companies like Pratt & Whitney, Eaton, Hamilton Sunstrand, Microtech, Roller Bearing Co., and United Tool & Die can power not just our next generation tanker, but also Connecticut’s economy of the future. This means that Boeing tankers with two Pratt & Whitney engines each will be made in the U.S. for the next 20 years.”
02.20.2011	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after voting against the Republican spending bill. “Today, I voted against an irresponsible spending bill that jeopardizes our economic recovery and puts ideology before job creation and protections for American families. Connecticut needs a plan that cuts the deficit, creates jobs, and protects the middle class – not more divisive legislation. This bill would result in 800,000 private and public sector jobs lost, according the Economic Policy Institute. Beyond that, the bill would hamper long-term economic growth and job creation in Connecticut. It seeks to significantly reduce measures to prevent the reckless behavior on Wall Street that got us into this mess. It cuts funding for critical investments in the roads and rail needed to transport our workforce and products of the future. And it significantly reduces education funding Connecticut students need to compete in the 21st century economy. Up to 72,000 students in our state would see major cuts to their Pell grants and over 1,500 local children would no longer be able to participate in Head Start. I will continue to fight to ensure that we reduce our deficit in a manner that is responsible and creates jobs.
02.19.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 21, 2000 Larson Reaction To Pratt Layoff Announcement My first concern is for the potential dislocation of workers, and the affect it will have on hundreds of families. I hope to meet with IAM officials on Monday (January 24) to determine what can be done to assist these workers. I have talked to Jim Parent (Directing Business Representative of International Association of Machinists District 91) this afternoon and pledge my support to help them mitigate these layoffs. I also plan on meeting with the entire Congressional delegation to talk about how we can be of assistance federally, in particular, with dislocated worker re-training. This is very hard news, but not entirely unexpected. We have been talking about the downturn in aviation markets for over a year. That is one of the reasons I invited Congressman Murtha (D-PA Ranking Member of the House Defense Appropriations Committee) to visit the plant last week ? to look for new and innovative ways that the government can work with Pratt to help solidify the commercial base, and work through this down cycle in the commercial markets. The simple fact is that 200 fewer engines and 600 fewer airplanes are being ordered than just two years ago, and you can?t build engines without planes. Now is a critical time for Pratt to inform its workers and the general public about its future plans. People need to be educated about where the company sees itself in the next five and ten years. While I certainly cannot control the commercial markets, I will continue to work this year to leverage every cent of federal funding available to help Pratt through this lean period ? but, again, the employees and their families should be our primary concern right now. ###
02.16.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement praising the 233 to 198 vote to end funding for the F-35 extra engine in the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution. “Today, the House voted to end funding for the F-35 extra engine – a program our military doesn’t want and our country cannot afford. I’m proud to have led a bipartisan team with Reps. Tom Rooney (R-FL), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), and Lynn Westmoreland (R-GA) to cut the deficit and end this wasteful program. Today’s vote created a perfect opportunity to fulfill a pledge that many House freshman made when they came to Congress – to cut the deficit. The amendment passed today strips the entire $450 million from the extra engine program and commits it to debt reductions. I thank my colleagues – both Republicans and Democrats – for their vote in support of this amendment. I will continue to fight to ensure we end this wasteful and excessive program.” ###
02.03.2011	For Immediate Release: February 3, 2011 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson to Business Community: High Speed Rail & Energy Independence Needed Now More Than Ever Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus was the keynote speaker at the Congressional Roundtable event, hosted by the New England Council and the MetroHartford Alliance. Congressman Larson discussed regional and state transportation, including his efforts to make high speed rail access in Connecticut and in the Northeast reality, as well as the crisis in Egypt and the need for our nation to transition from foreign oil. Below are excerpts from Congressman Larson’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Transportation “As Co-Chair of the Northeast Rail Caucus, I am determined to bring high speed rail to New England. Last Friday, it was my honor to host Congressman Bill Shuster (PA-09), the chair of the House Subcommittee in charge of railroads, in my district. “During his visit, I convened a high-speed rail roundtable with our Governor, Congressional Delegation, New England Department’s of Transportation and regional leaders to discuss the impact rail could have on all of our communities. “With the proper investment, not only will people ride the rails in the Northeast, but investing in rail will provide needed relief to the congestion on our roads and in our airports that is holding back economic growth. “High speed rail improvements will reduce travel time from Hartford to New York from three hours by train to just about two hours, door to door. Instead of infrequent trains there will be convenient and reliable service that will seamlessly integrate with the larger Northeast Corridor. “We are well positioned here in New England for further investment in high speed rail in addition to the over $280 million committed by Connecticut and the $160 million committed by the federal government. I, along, with our Governor and the rest of the New England delegation, including Massachusetts Congressmen John Olver and Mike Capuano, are working hard to make sure that we have every financial opportunity to succeed in this effort” Situation in Egypt and Our Nation’s Energy Crisis “As we have witnessed over the past week, instability can literally materialize overnight in any region of the world. I think Americans sometimes fail to realize how these situations abroad can affect their everyday lives. We truly live in an interconnected and interrelated world where the problems facing one people have the potential to disrupt the lives of us all. “With regard to Egypt, the unrest that has taken shape over the past several days has already had an effect on the oil & gas prices here in the United States. “On Monday, the price of oil surged to over $100 per barrel – a record since the high prices faced during August 2008. As we all know in New England, high oil prices mixed with record snow fall have the potential to create a perfect storm for families trying to stay warm this winter. “It is important to note that Egypt isn’t even a major world supplier of oil. The surge in price that we are seeing today is based largely on the fact that Egypt controls the Suez Canal, through which an estimated 1.8 million barrels of oil were shipped per day in 2009. “Could you imagine if this type of unrest occurred in Saudi Arabia, where more than 7.5 million barrels of oil are exported each day? Oil companies can find a new shipping route - they cannot however find a new source. “My hope is that the situation in Egypt and the consequential higher gas prices that we now must pay will finally ignite a successful finish to America’s seemingly perpetual race for energy independence. This can no longer be a partisan issue – Democrats and Republicans must join together to address the problem. “To achieve independence, Americans and the business community will likely need to make sacrifices. I realize that this is never popular and can incite anger throughout our communities. “We cannot shove this problem to the side because it’s not the perfect time to address it – there will never be a perfect opportunity. “It is time we look past potential short term losses and realize the long term benefit to our society as a whole. To be honest, shifting the nation away from imported oil has the potential to create more jobs than any other step the federal government could take. “As some of you may know, I have been working in Congress for quite some time on bipartisan legislation that I believe will lay the groundwork for achieving energy independence. This legislation, the Nat Gas Act, takes a moderate approach to reducing our dependence on foreign oil by incentivizing American-based manufacturers to produce vehicles that run on American-produced natural gas and by incentivizing businesses, companies and American families to buy them. “Expanding the use of natural gas will save Americans money “Natural gas is more affordable than oil. On average, it costs a third less to fill a vehicle with natural gas than traditional gasoline, and since 98% of our supply is domestic, it is not subject to outside political and economic pressures. “Finally, expanding the use of natural gas will create American manufacturing jobs: “It’s estimated that my legislation would create more than 500,000 jobs. “It’s time that Americans get serious about energy independence; while we can disagree on things like carbon emissions and greenhouse gases, what none of us can disagree on is how important it is for our nation to be able to support itself. ###
02.01.2011	On January 30, 2011 the U.S. Department of State issued a travel warning recommending that U.S. citizens avoid travel to Egypt due to ongoing political and social unrest. U.S. citizens are strongly encouraged to register their presence in Egypt with the State Department STEP program, which may be done online or directly with the Embassy in Cairo. The U.S. Embassy in Cairo has begun providing transportation for U.S. citizens to safe haven locations in Europe as of Monday, January 31, 2011. All U.S. citizen travelers and their spouses and children are required to have valid travel documents. Those interested in departing Egypt via USG-chartered transportation should contact the State Department and Embassy in Cairo at EgyptEmergencyUSC@state.gov or 1-888-407-4747 (inside the U.S.) or 1-202-501-4444 (outside the U.S.). The Department of State will continue to facilitate the evacuation of U.S. citizens who require assistance. Cairo airport is open and operating, and public transport, including taxis, is still available to the airport. Flights and transport to the airport may be disrupted due to the protests. Additional questions may be addressed by the information sheet provided by the State Department or to the emergency contact information provided above. U.S. citizens in Cairo are advised to obey the curfew from 4:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. and remain in indoors during that time. In the event of demonstrations, U.S. citizens should remain in their residences until the situation stabilizes and not attempt to come to the U.S. Embassy or Tahrir Square during these times. For more information, please contact Congressman Larson’s Office at 860-278-8888.
01.28.2011	For Immediate Release: January 28, 2011 Contact: For Larson/ Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 LARSON, CT & MA CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION HOST HOUSE SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN ON RAIL ISSUES TO DISCUSS HIGH SPEED RAIL IN NORTHEAST Hartford, CT- Continuing their commitment to have high speed rail in Connecticut and New England become a reality, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, and members of the Connecticut and Massachusetts congressional delegations hosted a series of meetings today to discuss the issue with the chief House lawmaker in charge of national rail issues. Republican Congressman Bill Shuster of Pennsylvania, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Railroads, Pipelines, and Hazardous Materials, visited Hartford to learn more about the ongoing efforts to have high speed rail service in Connecticut and throughout the Northeast region. The meetings included Connecticut Governor Dannel P. Malloy, as well as listening to presentations from Amtrak and state transportation officials from across New England. Yesterday, Congressman Shuster participated in a House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure field hearing at Grand Central Terminal in New York City on developing true high-speed passenger rail service in the Northeast. “I am pleased to welcome Congressman Shuster to Connecticut to learn more about our goal to make this region a high-speed rail corridor. I firmly believe there is an important need for a targeted focus on high speed rail in the Northeast and New England corridors. We have made great strides in our goal of making the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line a reality, with critical investments from both the federal and state levels. Even with those investments, there is more progress to be made,” said Congressman Larson, who serves as Co-Chair of the House Northeast Rail Caucus. “President Obama echoed the importance of high speed rail in his State of the Union address, with a focus on decreasing travel time and congestion on our roads, and enhancing overall economic growth in our communities. This is an issue important to Democrats and Republicans alike, and it will take continual coordination and partnerships on local, state and federal levels by all to move this initiative forward. I am confident after today’s meetings that we will accomplish our goal. ” “As Chairman of the Railroads Subcommittee, I believe development in American high speed rail isn’t a Republican or Democratic issue; it’s a matter of securing America’s future prosperity,” said Congressman Bill Shuster (R-PA-09). “High speed rail is essential to our nation’s transportation future and our best hope for easing the pressure on our congested highways and airspace. The Northeast Corridor must be the focus our efforts, but we must also invest in connecting routes like the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield line, which are critical to growing ridership and increasing connectivity to our passenger rail system.” Congressman Shuster added, “I am pleased to have been able to join with my friend and colleague Congressman John Larson and members of the Connecticut and Massachusetts delegation today to discuss the promising future of high speed rail in Connecticut with Governor Malloy. I look forward to working with John as a leader in passenger rail in the House of Representatives.” “The Northeast Corridor represents the best opportunity for true high-speed rail in our country, and the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield line is a critical component of that corridor. Building this line will help to create jobs, dramatically reduce traffic, and expand opportunities for economic development,” said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03). “I believe these and other investments in critical infrastructure projects, including by leveraging private investment, will create good middle class jobs and restore our long-term prosperity.” "Improving our local railways and transportation hubs is an important targeted investment and an engine of growth for our local economy," said Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02). "Especially in the crowded northeast corridor, reducing congestion and improving the long-term stability of our infrastructure are critical for business and commerce. These meetings and Congressman Shuster’s visit are important steps as we continue to work toward those goals.” Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-05) said, “As long as people in Connecticut have no choice but to stay stuck in their cars, our economy and quality of life will continue to suffer. We’ve taken the first important steps toward an expanded and modernized rail network, but we need committed partners at both the state and federal level to make that vision a reality.” “The Northeast is one of the most densely populated areas of the country and building a modern rail network is key to minimizing congestion and maintaining economic competitiveness,” Massachusetts Congressman John Olver, Co-Chair of the Northeast Rail Caucus, said. “Today’s meeting demonstrates our strong regional commitment to working together to support the expansion of passenger and freight opportunities.” ###
01.27.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 27, 2011 CONTACT: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 LARSON STATEMENT ON FINAL FINDINGS OF FINANCIAL CRISIS COMMISSION Washington, DC-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and author of legislation that created the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission, released the following statement on the final report on the causes of the financial crisis, which stated that the crisis was avoidable and a result of human actions, inactions and misjudgments. “After interviews with more than 700 witnesses, review of millions of pages of documents to investigate the role of government and financial institutions, the panel’s conclusions might surprise a few, but were well known by many. Risk and greed in our nation’s financial firms combined with unprepared and ineffective regulatory agencies led to breakdowns in our financial markets and economy, where the only people held liable for this recklessness were the American people. “It was the American people that watched as their retirement accounts and investments- their life work- shrunk to fractions of their previous worth. This report sheds light on how breakdowns in the financial system rife with dark markets and over-the-counter derivatives, lax corporate governance policies, excessive borrowing, and a lack of overall accountability consequently put the financial stability of our families, small businesses, and seniors in danger. “This report will continue the process of ending the practices of the old and should reinforce our resolve to fully implement regulations and Wall Street reform measures. I’m convinced now, more than ever, that slowing the implementation of Dodd-Frank would only further hurt the American people. “I would like to thank and congratulate Chairman Phil Angelides and members of the FCIC for their determined efforts to deliver this extensive report to the President, the Congress, and the American people. The warning signs were there, the crisis was preventable, now we must move forward to fix a broken system and protect the American people. This is the antidote to address the diseases in our economic and financial system.” Congressman Larson led the call for the creation of a modern-day “Pecora Commission” beginning in September of 2008. He introduced legislation in 2009 to create a commission to investigate the true causes of the economic crisis our country faced, and to provide recommendations on what we could do to prevent it from happening in the future. After passage of the legislation, the Financial Inquiry Crisis Commission began its work on September 17th, 2009. Among the conclusions The Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission found in their report was that: -The financial and economic crisis in 2008 was avoidable; -Widespread failures in financial regulation, including the Federal Reserve’s failure to stem the tide of toxic mortgages; -Over-the-counter derivatives contributed significantly to the economic crisis -Collapsing mortgage-lending standards and the mortgage securitization pipeline lit and spread the flame of contagion and crisis; -Dramatic breakdowns in corporate governance including too many financial firms acting recklessly and taking on too much risk; -An explosive mix of excessive borrowing and risk by households and Wall Street that put the financial system on a collision course with crisis; -And there were systemic breaches in accountability and ethics at all levels. ###
01.26.2011	For Immediate Release: January 25, 2011 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address Washington, D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union address: “President Obama has called on Congress and our nation to move forward an agenda centered on out-educating, out-building, and out-performing the rest of the world. He said ‘this is our time’, and I couldn’t agree with him more. We must build upon our successes and prepare our nation for a stronger foundation. “It is time for us to create jobs and grow our economy here at home. It’s time for us to work together, so our concerns are that of the ironworker in East Hartford, the teacher in Bristol, and the small business owner in Torrington. It is time for us to prepare our nation to win in the future. “The economy and jobs are the greatest domestic concern of our nation, and it should be a shared goal of us all to address it with a commonsense approach. Tonight, the President provided a blueprint that is practical and needed, with job creating investments in education, innovation, and our nation’s infrastructure. “As we invest for our future, we will take responsibility for our current deficits and make the necessary cuts to prioritize our overall goal-making a stronger, smarter, more competitive America. I applaud President Obama for his pledge to not accomplish this by privatizing social security or on the backs of our current and future seniors. “This is our opportunity, for both Democrats and Republicans, to pull together for the greater benefit of the American people. Tonight’s speech provided the fuel for this generation’s next great moment. If we highlight making it in America, drive initiatives that will lead to job creation and a renewed economic expansion, the stars are the limit for our nation. America is ready to lead.” Tonight, Congressman Larson’s guest to the State of the Union Address was Connecticut Governor Dannel P. Malloy. “I thank Governor Malloy for accepting my invitation to witness tonight’s State of the Union in the House Chamber. I look forward to working with him and our President to address the important issues facing our communities in Connecticut,” said Congressman Larson. ###
01.25.2011	For Immediate Release: January 24, 2011Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Invites Governor Malloy to Attend State of the Union Address Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) proudly announced that Connecticut Governor Dannel P. Malloy will be his guest at President Obama's State of the Union address. Tomorrow night's address by President Obama will focus on rebuilding our economy so it's competitive, growing, and working for all Americans. "It is my honor to invite my friend, Governor Malloy, as my guest to this year's State of the Union address. President Obama will present our nation's agenda for creating jobs and a plan for us to out-innovate, out-educate, and out-build the rest of the world," said Congressman Larson. "Strengthening our economy and bolstering competiveness are goals, both myself and Governor Malloy, believe are needed to secure our state's prosperity. We face challenges nationally and at home, however with common ground with our President and a strong partnership with our Governor, I am confident that we will succeed now and win in the future." "I've been clear that my main focus as Connecticut's governor is to create new jobs while getting our fiscal house in order," said Governor Malloy. "I'm eager to hear President Obama's agenda for some of the very same issues. Getting people back to work while facing some very real challenges, both in the state and nationally, won't be an easy task. But it's a necessary one. I'll work with anybody and everybody who is committed to this recovery, including our delegation in Washington and President Obama." ###
01.08.2011	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 8, 2011 LARSON STATEMENT ON SHOOTING IN ARIZONA INVOLVING CONGRESSWOMAN GIFFORDS Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after news that Arizona Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, members of her staff and others were shot at an event in Tucson, AZ earlier today: “Today is a sad day for Arizona and our nation. "Congresswoman Giffords is respected by all of our colleagues for her conviction to public service. With a benevolent soul and a gentle heart, she serves her home state with great pride and passion. "This tragedy is one that touches all of us, and one that will leave an indelible mark on our nation for generations. "My thoughts and prayers are with her husband, Captain Mark Kelly and their family, her staff, and her constituents in Arizona." ###
01.07.2011	For Immediate Release: January 7, 2011 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 AS HOME HEATING PRICES RISE, LARSON CALLS ON CFTC TO PASS SPECULATION REGULATIONS IN OIL MARKETS Washington, DC- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, made the following statement as it pertains to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) upcoming vote on oil speculation guidelines. Rising gas prices in Connecticut and across New England can be attributed to the unnecessary speculation in the oil markets. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street-Consumer Protection bill specifically included provisions requiring the CFTC to establish limits preventing sudden and unreasonable market speculation on energy, particularly oil. CFTC Chairman Gary Gensler has previously stated that there is a possibility that the provisions will not pass before the stated January 17th deadline. “Once again, we are seeing oil prices rising to nearly $100 a barrel, in turn causing home heating prices in Connecticut and New England to reach unsustainable levels for the middle class. “With January 17th as the set deadline for the establishment of these limits, I am concerned that excessive oil speculation will continue to unnecessarily raise oil prices and further hinder working families and seniors’ ability to stay warm during this harsh New England winter. Once again, the CFTC will try to pass the guidelines at their upcoming meeting on January 13th and I hope those who are blocking passage of these important consumer protection measures understand the detrimental affect their decisions will have on the middle class in Connecticut and across New England this winter. “I will meet with Chairman Gensler prior to the upcoming meeting to stress to him the importance to move forward with the guidelines and to discuss his plan for achieving oversight of this dark market. The proper oversight must be in place. “It is about whose side you are on, and during these tough economic times, I pledge to protect consumers from the unnecessary market abuses and ensure that they can afford to heat their homes this and every winter thereafter.” ###
01.05.2011	For Immediate Release: January 5th 2011 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 202-225-2265 Larson Statement on Swearing-In for the 112th Congress Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement upon being administered the oath of office to serve his seventh term in the House of Representatives: “Today is a day in which all members of Congress renew their promise to the American people and their constituents- a promise to continually work to put our nation and the citizens we are sworn to serve on a path of great prosperity. “As we seamlessly transition power, I congratulate Speaker Boehner and House Republicans, and look forward to working with them to address the important issues facing our nation. “I will work with them where we have common ground; however, I will decline to support efforts that compromise my longstanding principles and those of the people of Connecticut’s 1st District. We must continue on the path and build on the accomplishments of the previous Congress of creating jobs, rejuvenating our economy, and supporting and protecting our middle class. “I am deeply grateful to be provided the opportunity to renew my commitment to the citizens of Connecticut, and pledge that I and my staff will diligently work on their behalf every day, as we have for the past 12 years. Thank you for allowing me to serve as your member of Congress.” ###
12.17.2010	For Immediate Release: December 17, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: House Passes Authorization Bill that Supports Connecticut Troops Includes Funding to Support New Aviation Readiness Center, Not For JSF Extra Engine Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) voted for the passage of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act, critical legislation that will support our military and their families and further strengthen our national security. Congressman Larson applauded the legislation for authorizing $41 million to support the construction of a new state of the art Aviation Readiness Center in Windsor Locks for the Connecticut Army National Guard and for not including an earmark to fund the Joint Strike Fighter Extra Engine. “This legislation will provide our troops with the necessary resources to ensure their safety and the security of our nation. I am proud that funding that both I and President Obama supported for the Connecticut Army National Guard for a new advanced Aviation Readiness Center was included in this critical bill,” said Congressman Larson. The funding will be used to construct a new facility to house elements of the Connecticut Army National Guard’s Aviation units, including soldiers and pilots, at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks. Currently, existing support aviation facilities are located at two different locations, thus complicating mission readiness and overall training. President Obama recommended this funding in his budget proposal. Congressman Larson has long opposed the Joint Strike Fighter Extra Engine program, a position that is shared by President Obama, who previously issued a veto threat of any legislation containing funding for the extra engine, and Secretary of Defense Robert Gates. Recently, Congressman Larson was successful in ensuring that language was added to the House-passed Continuing Budget Resolution to provide the Secretary of Defense the “flexibility” to not fund the JSF Extra engine program. “The extra engine does nothing to improve our national security or troop readiness. It serves as a wasteful multi-billion dollar earmark that the President and Secretary Gates have opposed and the Marines, the Navy, and the Air Force have said they don’t want or need,” added Congressman Larson. “I am proud that funding for this unnecessary program was not authorized by this legislation. Today’s vote was a giant step to end this program once and for all.” The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act continues Congress’ commitment to protecting our nation and ensuring the men and women of our armed forces have access to essential resources and benefits. Additionally, this year’s bill includes the most comprehensive approach to addressing sexual assault in the military. Highlights of the legislation include: authorizing funds to protect our military from improvised explosive devices and prevent casualties; protecting military families from being hit with an increase in health care fees and allows military families to extend TRICARE coverage to their dependent children until age 26; providing a pay raise to our troops; and reforming the defense acquisition system to save billions of taxpayer dollars and expedite the process to get our military the tools they need. Related Links: Complete Overview of Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act ###
12.17.2010	For Immediate Release: December 16, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860-539-4924 Larson Stands Up for Seniors, Working Families Washington, DC- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, stood up for seniors and working families in Connecticut and across the nation by voting against the Obama/McConnell tax package. “Social Security is a public trust -- it’s nonnegotiable. So while this tax deal has been called a compromise, I refuse to compromise on the backs of seniors and working families. In its current form, this deal represents a full frontal assault on Social Security. It would begin the unraveling of this crucial program in exchange for giveaways to millionaires and billionaires,” said Congressman Larson. “It’s bad enough that this bill would blow a trillion-dollar hole in our deficit, leaving our children and grandchildren with crippling debt -- but the fact that it does this by raiding the Social Security system, denying seniors a cost-of-living-adjustment for the second year in a row, and giving away billions to the wealthiest Americans is simply unacceptable.” “This week I heard directly from residents in my district- at a public forum in South Windsor, in phone calls and letters – and they stated their overwhelming opposition to this legislation.” “A senior woman from South Windsor, whose sole income is her Social Security benefit, told me that she has to choose between buying groceries, heating her house, and getting her medicine. She will not receive a COLA next year and during these tough economic times, we cannot cut the Social Security benefits of thousands like her in Connecticut.” “I also spoke to Barbara Kennelly, the President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and my longtime friend. Barbara is one of our nation’s leading advocates for Social Security and she underscored how the payroll tax cut portion of this measure will affect the long term viability of this bedrock program. She agreed that this legislation is a clear assault by Congressional Republicans on Social Security and the middle class of America.” “Earlier this month, the House passed the Middle Class Tax Relief Act. If my Republican colleagues were serious about creating jobs and standing on the side of working families, more of them would have joined us in voting to cut taxes for middle class Americans. Instead, House and Senate Republicans have chosen to hold the American economy hostage, add a trillion dollars to our national debt and add further uncertainty to our nation’s financial markets.” ###
12.16.2010	Larson: House Passes Legislation To Expand Educational Benefits for Post- 9/11 Veterans Washington D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson voted in favor of the Post- 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act, which will further strengthen the New GI Bill to help our veterans now and in the future. This bill will expand veterans’ educational benefits to support apprenticeships and on-the-job training programs as well as to pay for national tests, licensure and certification tests. “We owe a great deal of gratitude to our returning veterans for their commitment and service to our nation. The Post -9/11 G.I. Bill has assisted members of our military and their families as they continue down a path of success. This legislation will improve upon the current G.I. Bill while maintaining the values of the original G.I. Bill, by enhancing the uses of educational benefits to support apprentice and on-the-job training programs,” said Congressman Larson. “I am proud that this measure was overwhelmingly supported by my colleagues and I will continue my efforts locally to ensure that our service members and their families are aware of the available benefits provided in this critical legislation.” The legislation passed today streamlines the New GI Bill and makes it more equitable by: · Expanding opportunities for training and education, covering vocational and technical schools, apprenticeships and on the job training that were not previously covered. · Giving active duty students a book stipend of $1,000 per year, like veterans under the program. · Providing living allowances for distance learners, like injured veterans who rely on taking online classes. · Simplifying the Yellow Ribbon Program for veterans attending private colleges and universities and taking graduate courses, eliminating the confusing state cap system, and setting a $17,500 per year cap for tuition and fees. · Granting full credit to National Guardsmen, including those called up to respond to national disasters like Hurricane Katrina or the BP oil spill, making more than 130,000 eligible for this education benefit. After passing the Senate earlier this week and the House today by a vote of 409 to 3, the legislation now goes to President Obama for his signature into law. Last year, Congressman Larson hosted informational workshops to provide Post-9/11 veterans and their families information about the educational benefits available from the G.I. Bill. ###
12.15.2010	For Immediate Release: December 15, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: Stand-Alone DADT Bill Passes the House Washington D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement upon House passage of stand-alone legislation to allow for the repeal of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”: “I am proud that the House has taken the lead to ultimately end this discriminatory policy. Secretary Gates, the Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff, and a vast majority of our service members have called for the end of ‘Don’t Ask Don’t Tell’, a policy that has undermined fundamental human principles revered by our Armed Forces. “We have the most formidable military force in the world; however, this discriminatory policy has weakened our military readiness and compromised our nation’s security. Repeal of this policy is long overdue and I hope that the Senate takes swift action on this important legislation.” ###
12.15.2010	For Immediate Release: December 15, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Praises Appointment of Former CT Commissioner Stephen Heintz to National Commission Washington D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) praised the appointment of Stephen Heintz, currently President of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and Chair of the D?mos Board of Trustees, to a position on the U.S. Commission on Key National Indicators. Nominated by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Mr. Heintz previously served the State of Connecticut as both Commissioner of the Department of Economic Development and the Department of Income Maintenance . “For 15 years, Stephen Heintz served the State of Connecticut with honor and distinction. I’ve seen his passion and leadership firsthand during my tenure in the State Senate as we worked together on important legislation to benefit our state’s families and children. He is a well rounded and qualified leader who will admirably serve our nation on the Commission on Key National Indicators,” said Congressman Larson. The eight members of the bipartisan Commission on Key National Indicators are selected by Congressional leaders to oversee implementation of the Key National Indicator System, which will be executed by the National Academy of Sciences. Biography of Stephen Heintz Stephen Heintz currently serves as President of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund (RBF), an international philanthropic organization focused on advancing social change to create a more just, sustainable, and peaceful world. Mr. Heintz co-founded D?mos, a non-partisan public policy research organization to promote an engaged and inclusive democratic process, in 2000 and has served as Chair of the Board of Trustees since 2003. Prior to founding D?mos, he was vice president and chief operating officer of the East West Institute in Prague and previously served in Connecticut as Commissioner of the Department of Economic Development and Commissioner of the Department of Income Maintenance. Mr. Heintz holds a BA from Yale University. ###
12.14.2010	For Immediate Release: December 14, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: WILL FIGHT SENATE PASSAGE OF $3 BILLION EARMARK FOR EXTRA ENGINE Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement concerning funding for the F-35 extra engine being inserted in the Senate’s proposed Omnibus budget bill: “At a time when we are looking to rein in spending and cut the budget deficit, the Senate is prepared to pass a $3 billion earmark for the F-35 extra engine – a program the President and the military are opposed to. We need to make tough decisions to lower the deficit. But, the decision to end the extra engine program should be a no-brainer.” “I will work with the White House and the Defense Department to fight the passage of this multi-billion dollar earmark, to save taxpayers’ money, close our budget deficit and support our troops.” ###
12.10.2010	For Immediate Release: December 9, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON CALLS SENATE “DYSFUNCTIONAL”, DADT FAILS ON CLOTURE VOTE Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the Senate fell three votes short of obtaining cloture to move forward on debate of the Defense Authorization bill, which included language to abolish the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy: “I am completely appalled by the Senate and the fact that ‘Don’t Ask Don’t Tell’ was blocked without proper debate. It is absurd that the Senate cannot even bring this critical issue, supported by the President and the Secretary of Defense, that addresses the concerns of our military to the floor for an up or down vote. “This is vital legislation for our troops, which included the repeal of a discriminatory military policy. “To date, the House of Representatives has acted on over 400 pieces of legislation that have not been discussed or brought up for a vote in the Senate. “I am sure that our nation’s founders would not have expected to see the minority hold important pieces of legislation that will create jobs, boost our economy, and address the needs of our nation hostage. However, this is the secret process of the Senate and their archaic rules, where the tyranny of the minority outweighs the legislative priorities of our nation. “The Senate showed today why it is a profile of dysfunction." ###
12.09.2010	For Advisory Purposes Only: December 9, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 SUNDAY IN SOUTH WINDSOR, LARSON TO HOST PUBLIC FORUM ON TAX RELIEF AND THE ECONOMY Hartford, CT- On Sunday at the South Windsor Public Library, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host a public forum to discuss the economy and tax relief for the Middle Class. Congressman Larson will answer questions on recent tax relief proposals and discuss how he will continue to fight for working class Americans. The event is open to the public. For more information, please contact Congressman Larson’s Office at 860-278-8888. What: Public Forum on Tax Relief and the Economy Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) Residents of the 1st Congressional District When: December 12th 2010, 2:00PM-4:00PM Where: South Windsor Public Library, Friends Room 1550 Sullivan Ave, South Windsor ###
12.06.2010	For Immediate Release: December 6, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON ASKS COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN TO HALT FUNDING OF JSF EXTRA ENGINE IN CONTINUING RESOLUTION Washington D.C. - Last Friday, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) continued his fight to end the funding of the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) extra engine program. Congressman Larson wrote letters to Rep. David Obey (WI), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee and Rep. Norm Dicks (WA), Chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, asking that they add language to a Continuing Resolution (CR) providing the Secretary of Defense “flexibility” in whether to fund the Joint Strike Fighter Alternate Engine program. This action would guard against a potential veto of the CR by President Obama, who along with Secretary Gates considers the program to be wasteful spending, and ensure that the government is not shut down. In the letters to Chairmen Obey and Dicks, Congressman Larson stated, “If Congress were to send a long-term [Continuing Resolution] to the President without flexibility on the Alternate Engine, we would in effect be continuing the program for another fiscal year in direct conflict with the President’s position. We cannot and should not hold the entire budgetary process hostage for this unnecessary program.” Congressman Larson added, “Each time we fund the Alternate Engine program, we are taking funding from programs critical to assisting the individuals and families struggling to make it during today’s tough economic times.” Earlier this year, in response to a letter written to him by Congressman Larson, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates stated that the JSF extra engines are “unaffordable luxuries” and that he “firmly believe(s) that the interests of the taxpayers, our military, and the JSF program are best served by not pursuing an extra engine.” The Joint Strike Fighter extra engine program is the poster child of excessive, unnecessary spending. Congressman Larson has long fought against the funding of it, a program which the President and Secretary Gates have vehemently opposed and that the Marines, the Navy, and the Air Force have said they don’t want or need. December 3, 2010 The Honorable Norm Dicks Chairman, Subcommittee on Defense H-405, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Dicks: As you compile a long-term Continuing Resolution (CR), I write to request that you include language that provides the Secretary of Defense with flexibility in funding the Joint Strike Fighter Alternate Engine program. Inclusion of this language would guard against a potential veto by President Obama and ensure that the government is not shut down. President Obama and Secretary of Defense Gates have consistently stated their opposition to continuing the Joint Strike Fighter Alternate Engine program. In fact, on May 28, 2010 President Obama vowed to veto any legislation that would fund a second engine for the Joint Strike Fighter program. If Congress were to send a long-term CR to the President without flexibility on the Alternate Engine, we would in effect be continuing the program for another fiscal year in direct conflict with the President’s position. We cannot and should not hold the entire budgetary process hostage for this unnecessary program. Furthermore, each time we fund the Alternate Engine program, we are taking funding from programs critical to assisting the individuals and families struggling to make it during today’s tough economic times. All across our nation, individuals are out of work, families are seeing their homes taken from them through foreclosure, and soon millions will no longer have access to unemployment benefits. Can we as Democrats look these men and women in the eye and explain that despite all of the data and reports that said otherwise, spending $3 billion on an extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter was the right thing to do? This program represents wasteful federal spending that must be ended if we are to get our fiscal house in order without further cutting programs that mean so much to us as Democrats. Mr. Chairman, I know that you fully understand all of the arguments that have been made both for and against the Alternate Engine, and I thank you for your vote against the program earlier this year. I am deeply committed to ending this program and hope that we can continue this discussion in the coming days. Sincerely, JOHN B. LARSON Member of Congress ###
12.03.2010	For Immediate Release: December 3, 2010Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/ 860-539-4924 Larson Fights to Bring Bill To Floor for One-Time $250 Payment for Social Security Recipients, Vote Expected in the House Next Week Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after announcing that next week the House of Representatives will bring to the floor legislation to provide America's seniors with a one-time $250 payment. Congressman Larson has fought for this one-time payment since it was announced that Social Security recipients would not receive a Cost-of-Living Adjustment (COLA) for 2011. "During these tough economic times, seniors in Connecticut and across the nation are struggling to make ends meet. For the second consecutive year, America's seniors and individuals will not receive a COLA, by no fault of this President or Congress. However, we can remedy this through action," said Congressman Larson, who in his role as Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus spearheaded the creation of the Congressional Task Force on Seniors. Congressman Larson added, "I am proud that we will bring to the floor next week for a vote legislation that will provide needed relief to Social Security beneficiaries through a one-time $250 payment. With one in three seniors depending on Social Security for more than 90 percent of their income, especially during these tough economic times, we cannot be idle in our actions." In October, the Social Security Administration (SSA) announced that there will not be a COLA for 2011. Due to the result of economic conditions, and not Congressional or Presidential action, retirees, veterans, and those with disabilities will not see an increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, or Railroad Retirement benefits. Approximately one out of every five individuals Congressman Larson represents in the Hartford region is a recipient of Social Security benefits, the largest percentage of all the state's congressional districts. ###
12.02.2010	LARSON FIGHTS FOR WORKERS AND FAMILIES IN CT, VOTES FOR MIDDLE CLASS TAX CUTS, FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) stood with the working individuals and families of Connecticut and our nation by voting to provide the tax relief that they desperately need during these tough economic times. Larson voted in favor of the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, which would permanently extend middle class tax cuts to 100% of the taxpayers, families and small businesses in Connecticut’s First Congressional District and across the nation. Through this legislation, each and every taxpayer would receive a break on the first $200,000 they earn - $250,000 for joint filers. Extending tax cuts in this manner saves our nation approximately $700 billion. “Passing tax cuts for the middle class is a no-brainer. It is about being on the side of the hard working individuals and families in Connecticut and our nation during these economic times. We are fighting for the middle class and this vote shows where I stand on the issue of restoring our economy and getting our nation’s fiscal house in order,” said Congressman Larson. The legislation failed to garner significant support from the House Republicans, many of whom voted against the legislation today despite repeatedly claiming to support middle class tax relief in the past. Economists have said that the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy have done little to create jobs in America. Congressman Larson added, “It is unfortunate that the Republicans define leadership as holding the middle class hostage, in order to provide additional tax cuts to the wealthiest in our nation with no means to pay for it. This legislation returns us to Clinton tax rates, a time of great economic boon for our nation” According to a report by the Citizens for Tax Justice, under the Republican plan of extending all of the Bush tax cuts, the richest one percent of taxpayers would receive 34.5 percent of the total tax cuts in 2011. The Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010 (an amendment to the Senate Amendment to H.R. 4853) will: -For all families making less than $250,000 a year, permanently extend the 2001/2003 tax cuts, including current tax rates, marriage penalty relief (including EITC), capital gains and dividends rates, and $1,000 child tax credit (for earnings above $3,000) -Protects more than 25 million taxpayers from the alternative minimum tax by extending the AMT patch through 2011 and permanently extend small business expensing. ###
11.22.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE November 22, 2010 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION REQUESTS ADDITIONAL FEDERAL FUNDS TO EXPAND HIGH-SPEED RAIL Washington, D.C. — Today, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) and the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation wrote to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood requesting additional funding to expand high-speed rail service between New Haven and Springfield, MA. Recent media reports indicate that the Governors-elect in some states may decline the High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail funding they received. The delegation is requesting that the Department of Transportation reapportion funds declined by other states, and direct $100 million to Connecticut to expand the rail line. In their letter, the delegation wrote that this funding would “be a significant boost to the State which, despite a significant budget deficit, remains committed to seeing this project through to completion. That is because investing in 21st century infrastructure is an investment strategy that will pay economic dividends for years to come. It will help enhance our regional competitiveness, attract dynamic new industries, and serve as the backbone for transit-oriented development throughout the region.” The full text of the letter is below: November 22, 2010 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood: We write today to thank you for your support for Connecticut’s vision for high speed rail, and to commend your advocacy for 21st century transportation systems across the U.S. As you know, recent media reports suggest that the Governors-elect in some states that received High Speed Intercity Passenger Rail (HSIPR) funding are now considering whether to decline accepting these awards. We respectfully request that as you determine how to reapportion HSIPR funds declined by other states, you consider directing an additional $100 million of those funds for the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line. The State of Connecticut has been working closely with the states of Massachusetts and Vermont and Amtrak to better link the region’s cities and towns with New York City, Boston, and Montreal. Renovating and upgrading New Haven-Hartford-Springfield line for high-speed service is an essential component of the region’s intercity rail vision. This additional funding would put the total federal commitment at approximately $260 million. This would equal the $260 million in bond funding that the State has authorized for the project, and will allow Connecticut to complete Phase I of the project. It would also be a significant boost to the State which, despite a significant budget deficit, remains committed to seeing this project through to completion. That is because investing in 21st century infrastructure is an investment strategy that will pay economic dividends for years to come. It will help enhance our regional competitiveness, attract dynamic new industries, and serve as the backbone for transit-oriented development throughout the region. We are grateful for the support which you have provided for the State of Connecticut to date, and appreciate your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Christopher J. Dodd Joseph I. Lieberman Rosa L. DeLauro John B. Larson Christopher S. Murphy Joe Courtney Jim Himes
11.17.2010	For Immediate Release: November 17, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860-539-4924 Larson Statement on Re-Election as Chairman of House Democratic Caucus Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was re-elected by his House Democratic colleagues to serve as Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus for a second term. Congressman Larson, who will serve as the 4th ranking member in the House Democratic leadership, was unopposed and elected by an unanimous vote. “First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for electing me to serve a second term as Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. I am truly humbled and honored to be bestowed this position. “My leadership position will continue to allow me to do more for Connecticut and the 1st District as a whole. I have used this position to bring Administration Officials and fellow members of Congress to Connecticut to learn more about our state firsthand, increase our trade opportunities for local businesses through visits by Foreign Diplomats and Ambassadors, and represent the views of Connecticut residents on important issues in meetings with the President and Congressional leadership. “My top priorities have and will continue to be promoting job creation in our communities, being a staunch advocate for local interests and concerns, and providing first rate constituent services to all residents of the 1st District. “Serving as Caucus Chairman allows me to be a more effective representative to the families, small businesses, veterans and seniors here in Connecticut and I look forward to continuing this mission in the next two years.” ###
11.16.2010	For Immediate Release: November 16, 2010Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON PRAISES THE HARTFORD'S RECENT INVESTMENT IN ASYLUM HILL NEIGHBORHOOD, CAPITOL WEST BUILDING PLANS Initiative Includes Funding to Purchase, Demolish, and Improve the Capitol West Building Property Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded The Hartford's announcement of a $7 million investment to improve education and community support services in the Asylum Hill neighborhood. "I applaud The Hartford's commitment to the economic and social development of our capital city and the Asylum Hill neighborhood. Their partnership with the City of Hartford to raze the Capitol West Building, by far the most visible blighted location in the city, is an act of goodwill that should be praised," said Congressman Larson. "Far too long, Capitol West has been a blemish on a city whose future is as vibrant and alive as the spirits of its residents and businesses. This private/public venture will boost economic growth in our city today, tomorrow, and into the future." The funding will include a $2 million donation to assist the City of Hartford in the acquisition and demolition of the blighted Capitol West building, a 170,000 square-foot vacant office building located on Myrtle Street. A visible eyesore in the neighborhood and in Downtown Hartford, Capitol West is a short distance from The Hartford's Corporate Headquarters, Interstate 84 and Union Station, the city's largest transportation hub. Liam E. McGee, President and CEO of The Hartford, joined Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra at the West Middle School earlier today for this major announcement. ###
11.10.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 10, 2010CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CRITICIZES DEBT COMMISSION PLAN TO CUT SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS Offers Common Sense Solution to Lower the Deficit Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after news that the President's debt commission released its plan to reduce the federal deficit and make cuts to Social Security and Medicare. "I am disappointed with these initial recommendations from the debt commission. As I've said before, any plan to cut Social Security benefits for the elderly and disabled is quite simply dead on arrival. "We have already proposed a simple plan that would reduce the deficit without hurting America's hardworking middle class. Preserving tax breaks for the middle class while letting the Bush tax breaks for the wealthiest Americans expire would mean billions less in borrowing from foreign countries like China and Brazil; billions less that our grandchildren need to repay. Rather than raising taxes on the middle class by eliminating tax breaks like the mortgage interest deduction and making draconian cuts to our federal budget, let's take a responsible and reasonable approach to lowering the deficit that won't impact our economic recovery and won't make it harder for working families to make ends meet." ###
11.10.2010	For Immediate Release: November 10, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: HARTFORD ORGANIZATIONS TO RECEIVE $140,000 TO SUPPORT FREE TAX ASSISTANCE PROGRAM Washington, D.C.-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, member of the House Ways and Means Committee, announced $140,000 in federal funding for two Hartford-based organizations to provide free federal tax return preparation and electronic filing to low and moderate income individuals and families. The Connecticut Association for Human Services (CAHS) and Co-Opportunity, Inc will receive $80,000 and $60,000 respectively through the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) program. “The VITA program plays an important role in our community, providing free tax assistance and ensuring that individuals and families are provided with all of their qualified tax credits,” said Congressman Larson. “In this past filing cycle, CAHS and Co-Opportunity opened over 60 VITA sites and this funding will allow them to continue their work and open new locations while ensuring the quality and accuracy of prepared tax returns.” For tax year 2010, individuals and families with an adjusted gross income of $49,000 or lower are eligible for assistance. In February, Congressman Larson sent out a newsletter to families and individuals in the region to inform them of the services provided at VITA centers and to offer his office’s assistance in answering questions about eligible tax benefits. Congressman Larson serves on the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over the nation's tax code, trade policy, Social Security, and Medicare. ###
11.08.2010	For Immediate Release: November 8, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON APPLAUDS INDIA’S AGREEMENT TO PURCHASE C-17 AIRCRAFT, PRATT ENGINES Preliminary Agreement Represents the Purchase of Approximately 45 Engines for Pratt & Whitney Washington, DC- President Barack Obama announced a preliminary agreement on a landmark deal with the Indian Air Force to purchase 10 Boeing C-17 Globemaster III military aircrafts. East Hartford’s Pratt & Whitney will produce the engines which will bring jobs and an economic boost to our area. “The trade agreement with India to purchase C-17 aircrafts represents three words for Connecticut- jobs, jobs, jobs,” stated Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) upon hearing the announcement. “This is great news for our state and the employees at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in East Hartford and Middletown. I praise President Obama and Indian Prime Minister Singh for working together to make this historic agreement possible for both nations. This is a win-win situation for the United States and India, increasing our trade and economic relations for years to come.” The Boeing C-17 military aircraft is powered by four Pratt & Whitney engines and with spares, it is expected that India would purchase approximately 45 engines. As stated by Boeing and the White House, this trade agreement is valued at approximately $4.1 billion and supports an estimated 22,160 jobs nationwide, including thousands in Connecticut. Once the agreement is fulfilled, the Indian Air Force will be the owner and operator of the largest fleet of C-17s outside of the United States. This year, Congressman Larson spearheaded an initiative to invite diplomatic leaders from across the world to meet with Connecticut business owners and leaders to increase trade opportunities in the state. Indian Ambassador to the United States Meera Shankar visited Pratt & Whitney executives and workers in July. “Earlier this year, I was proud to arrange a visit by Indian Ambassador Meera Shankar to Pratt to meet with Mr. Chênevert and UTC executives as well as an opportunity for her to speak to the machinists,” added Congressman Larson. “Ambassador Shankar spoke to both groups about the great economic opportunity of trade between her nation and the United States. Over the next two years, I will continue inviting Ambassadors from foreign nations to Connecticut to meet with our businesses and further establish trade relations that will benefit our state in the future. Manufacturing is in our state’s DNA and today’s announcement represents the great significance of why we need to continue our vigilance in Congress to support the “Making it in America” agenda.” ###
10.15.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 14, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON ANNOUNCES VOTE TO PROVIDE SENIORS WITH ONE-TIME $250 PAYMENTS Hartford, CT – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after House leadership announced today that we will move ahead with legislation to provide America’s seniors with a one-time $250 payment. The Social Security Administration is expected to announce on Friday there will be no Cost-of-Living-Adjustment for 2011. That means that for the first time ever, 2011 will be the second consecutive year that Social Security retirees, veterans, and people with disabilities will see no increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, and Railroad Retirement benefits. This unprecedented situation is a result of economic conditions, not the result of Congressional or Presidential action or inaction. “Earlier this week, I called for Congress to enact a one-time payment to seniors who are just learning they will not receive a cost-of-living adjustment to their Social Security benefits. I am happy to announce that my Democratic colleagues in the House agree that we cannot let seniors suffer during these difficult economic times. We will move ahead quickly to provide seniors and other Social Security beneficiaries with these one-time payments. “These payments are good not only for our seniors, but for our economy as well. In fact, a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute showed that similar payments to seniors in 2009 strengthened the economy, increasing the nation’s GDP by 0.5% in the second quarter of the year, and creating or saving 125,000 American jobs. ###
10.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 12, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: CONGRESS SHOULD HELP SENIORS WEATHER ECONOMIC STORM Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) responded to word that the Social Security Administration will announce later this week that seniors won’t receive a cost of living adjustment to their Social Security benefits this years. “After a lifetime of hard work, seniors are being hit particularly hard during these tough economic times. They are finding it harder and harder to put food on the table, pay for their prescriptions and live on limited income. While Congress doesn’t have control over the cost of living adjustment that seniors receive to their Social Security payments based on inflation, we can and should provide them with a fully paid for one-time payment to make it easier for seniors to make ends meet this year. “We’ve already taken steps to help seniors weather the economic downturn – providing seniors with a $250 check as part of the Recovery Act and giving seniors who fall into the Medicare Part D coverage gap or “donut hole” a rebate. We are standing up to Republican threats to privatize Social Security and turn Medicare into a voucher program. I’ll continue to fight to protect Social Security and make retirement easier for this country’s seniors.” ###
10.06.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 6, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON TOUTS HISTORIC ACCOMPLISHMENTS FOR CT VETERANS Hartford, CT – This Congress has made historic advancements to care for our nation’s veterans. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) touted those accomplishments on the day that Eric Shinseki, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, visited Connecticut. “We have made a sacred pledge to the brave men and women who defend this country on the battlefield, that we will care for them when they return,” said Congressman Larson. “For too long these national heroes faced long lines for services, endless red-tape, and underfunded programs. When we took control of this Congress we pledged that would change. We’ve made unprecedented investments in caring for our veterans, improved the quality and efficiency of services and ensured that budgeting for veterans never falls prey to political maneuvering.” For local veterans, Congressman Larson secured nearly $6 million in funding to rebuild the Rocky Hill Veterans Home. This funding will improve the quality of life for hundreds of area veterans and create 40 new construction jobs in our area. Here are some of our other top accomplishments for veterans: House Democrats did more to increase veterans funding in the last three years than the Republican Congress did in 12 years. We added $23 billion for veterans’ health care and services, providing a 60% increase. We fought to secure advanced funding for veterans’ benefits, for the first time providing a stable and uninterrupted source of funding for medical care and ensuring that veterans’ services are never subject to political maneuvering. We implemented the GI Bill for the 21st Century to ensure access to a four-year college education for our returning veterans. We addressed the troubling reality of post-traumatic stress, traumatic brain injury and incidents of suicide among veterans by increasing counseling for returning veterans and mandating a study into causes and treatments. We also expanded mental health services and support to the families of our veterans. “Our returning veterans should never again be treated as a burden on this nation. As our men and women in uniform return from the battlefield we must continue to ensure they receive the highest quality benefits and services and are prepared to re-enter civilian life. This issue is about our morals and values as a nation and we cannot afford to let our veterans’ services return to the state we found them in 4 years ago,” said Congressman Larson. ###
10.06.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 6, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON PRAISES BLUMENTHAL ACTION ON HOUSING CRISIS Hartford, CT – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) commended Attorney General Richard Blumenthal for his bold action to stop unfair foreclosure practices in our state and stressed the importance of confronting this issue. He said, “Our nation continues to deal with the fallout from the collapse of our housing market. Too many families are losing their homes or seeing the value of their homes plummet. Attorney General Blumenthal did the right thing by halting unfair foreclosures. He took a bold stance on the housing crisis, an issue that I have been working on in Congress and pushing the Obama Administration to take a more proactive stance on. As Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, I formed a Housing Stabilization Task Force to focus on strengthening the housing sector and keeping hardworking American families in their homes. “Yesterday, the Task Force sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, pushing them to address the issue of unfair foreclosure practices at some of the country’s biggest banks at a national level. The Task Force is continuing to work with Administration officials, economists and other experts to determine the best path forward to stabilize the housing market and keep more families in their homes.” ###
10.01.2010	For Immediate Release: October 1, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds, District Communications Director, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (860) 278-8888 HARTFORD TO RECEIVE $13.3 MILLION TO CREATE STUDENT SUCCESS CENTERS, INCREASE HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATION RATE Hartford, CT – Today at the Hartford City Hall, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Hartford Mayor Pedro Segarra and Hartford Public Schools Superintendent Dr. Steven J. Adamowski to announce that the Hartford School District will receive approximately $13.3 million over the next five years, including $2.7 million this year, to create Student Success Centers at Hartford Public High School, Weaver High School, and Bulkeley High School. The funding, provided under the U.S. Department of Education’s School Dropout Prevention Program, will be used to develop Student Success Centers that will provide off-track students and returning dropouts individualized support and academic instruction to allow them to catch up on their studies and qualify for graduation. “We must provide our students every opportunity to succeed in life. This funding will create Student Success Centers that will put struggling students back on a path to earn their diploma,” said Congressman Larson. “Our schools must live up to their mission of providing students with a quality education and the tools to reach their full potential. Initiatives like Student Success Centers, utilizing teams of teachers and graduation coaches, will place students in the best position to graduate and succeed in the future.” Mayor Segarra added, “Hartford is a poor city and education is a proven path out of poverty. It is essential that we provide our young people with the skills that are necessary for them to compete for the jobs of the future. This is vitally important because research shows urban areas like Hartford will produce a majority of this country’s workforce. The City is committed to closing the Achievement Gap and having its youth seize this opportunity to succeed both in the classroom and in life.” “This award affirms our reform strategy of providing Hartford students with a high quality education. Hartford Public, Weaver and Bulkeley high schools have all been subdivided into smaller career-oriented academies, where student performance has improved,” Dr. Adamowski said. “Student Success Centers will work in collaboration with partners across the city to ensure that thousands more students earn a high school diploma, go to college and become contributing members of society.” Congressman Larson, Mayor Segarra, and Dr. Adamowski also acknowledged and thanked the staffs of the Hartford Public School’s Office of Secondary Schools under the direction of Assistant Superintendent Christina Kishimoto and the Office of Strategic Partnerships, headed by Kelvin Roldan, for their hard work to prepare and submit this grant application for approval. Background on Student Success Centers The Student Success Centers will be developed at Hartford Public, Weaver and Bulkeley High Schools, to provide off-track students and returning dropouts individualized support and academic instruction to put them back on a path to graduation. The Centers will give students the opportunity to recover credits at an accelerated pace through small-group instruction and online coursework. Along with the opportunity to participate in internships, students will be offered work readiness classes. In addition, funding will also be used to identify and encourage dropouts to return to school through a communications initiative and to strengthen the summer bridge programs at each school to help ensure that students transition successfully from eighth to ninth grade. Collaborating partners with the Hartford School District on the initiative include Capital Workforce Partners, Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of Hartford, the Compass Youth Collaborative, and the Village for Families and Children. ###
09.27.2010	For Immediate Release: September 27, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: CREC TO RECEIVE FEDERAL FUNDING TO SUPPORT STUDENT ACHIEVEMENT, DIVERSITY IN HARTFORD REGION SCHOOLS FUNDING TO HELP ACHIEVE GOALS OF LANDMARK SHEFF VS. O’NEILL CASE Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson announced that the Capitol Region Education Council (CREC) has received a multi-year competitive federal grant to promote high achievement and diversity in the classroom for students attending the specialized magnet schools in the Greater Hartford region. The grant, provided by the U.S. Department of Education under the Magnet School Assistance Program, will equal approximately $3.7 million in the first year for an anticipated total for the three year grant of approximately $11.5 million. In all, the funding will support the development of eight CREC managed magnet schools in Hartford, Windsor, and East Hartford and aid to achieve guidelines set forth by the 2008 Sheff vs. O’Neill Stipulation and Order for desegregation in Hartford’s public school. Congressman Larson said, “CREC, under the leadership of Executive Director Dr. Bruce Douglas, has developed innovative and groundbreaking schools that offer the students of Greater Hartford a place to cultivate their educational skills and prepare for their future. This funding will support CREC’s and the region’s mission to establish eight new magnet schools in the area, all of which are to offer a specialized curriculum and focus of studies in fields of today and tomorrow.” “Across the nation, our schools are not living up to their promise to our students. We can no longer stand idle as our students fall behind their counterparts on the international stage in the sciences, mathematics, and technology,” added Congressman Larson. “ It will take innovative initiatives in education and improved schools to lay the groundwork to cultivate successful students and promote local economic growth. I was proud to support CREC’s application for funding as it will have a significant role to enhance the overall quality of education provided to our children.” Earlier this year, Congressman Larson wrote a letter of support (copy of letter: https://bit.ly/cKmER1) for CREC’s grant application to Secretary of Education Arne Duncan citing that CREC’s magnet schools will “show improvement in reading, mathematics, and writing each year for all students.” “It is a great day for the State of Connecticut. This award will allow the Sheff initiatives to take another giant step in the right direction; and, it will save the State nearly $11.5 million that it would have otherwise had to contribute to the desegregation efforts of Sheff v. O’Neill,” said Bruce Douglas, PH.D, Executive Director of CREC. “Funds will go to provide resources to new and existing magnet schools, to innovate curriculum and professional development, marketing, recruitment and outreach services. Having these additional resources will result in improved high quality, integrated education for our children. We are long overdue for such good news.” The Magnet School Assistance Program provides funding to school districts based upon their schools’ ability to achieve desegregation reforms and provide students an opportunity to meet challenging academic content and achievement standards. The eight schools to benefit from the grant are the following: Mary M. Hooker: Environmental Sciences, Hartford, CT Annie Fisher STEM: Engineering and Math, Hartford, CT Hartford Magnet Middle/High School: Early College, Hartford, CT Pathways to Technology: Technology/Problem-Based Learning, Windsor, CT CREC Museum Academy: Museum Studies, Hartford, CT CREC Aerospace, Engineering, Biomedical and Advanced Mathematics Academy, Hartford, CT CREC Medical Professions and Teacher Preparation Magnet School, Hartford, CT Connecticut River Academy: Environmental Studies, East Hartford, CT ###
09.23.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 23, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 HISTORIC FAIR ELECTIONS LEGISLATION PASSES OUT OF COMMITTEE Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan coalition of members of the House of Representatives announced that the Fair Elections Now Act, legislation to take the hunt for big money and influence of special interests out of our elections, was approved by the Committee on House Administration. With more than 160 co-sponsors, this is the farthest that legislation of this type has ever gotten in Congress. The coalition also announced today that one of the nation’s leading labor unions, the AFL-CIO, endorsed the legislation. The Fair Elections Now Act would put elections back in the hands of ordinary Americans by replacing big donor, special interest funded elections with Fair Elections — supported by small dollar local contributions and a match from the Fair Elections fund. With Fair Elections, candidates can focus on their constituents instead of lobbyists; and issues — instead of fundraising. Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and the author of the legislation said, “this day has been years in the making and is thanks to the hard work of many Americans who believe that real people, not special interests, should have the loudest voice in our political system. No one in Washington wants to spend their time raising money. We all came here to do the work and solve the problems that of our constituents. This legislation would allow us to get back to the real business of the American people. I am thrilled that the Fair Elections Now Act has moved one step closer to reality. I will continue to work to bring it to the floor of the House for a vote.” “The average citizen needs to have a voice,” Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC), the lead Republicans on the bill, said. “To ensure this, Congress needs to debate legislation like the Fair Elections Now Act. It’s time to return government to the people.” “A number of landmark ethics, accountability and transparency reforms have been implemented since the Democrats took control of Congress, but I believe we must go further and improve on the progress we have made. We must address the far too great of a role special interests play in our elections. The Fair Elections Now Act adopts many of the same concepts included in legislation – the Clean Money, Clean Elections Act – I have introduced throughout my time in Congress. I am pleased that the Fair Elections Now Act is advancing in the House, and I look forward to continuing my work with Congressman Larson to include the best aspects of both of our bills so that we finally achieve our shared goal of comprehensive campaign finance reform,” said Congressman John F. Tierney (D-MA), a leader in the fight to clean up our election system. “The Citizens United decision was a stark wake-up call for those who worry about their voices being drowned out by special interests. This legislation is one response to ensure that all Americans – not the special few – have an equal voice in our elections. The Fair Elections Now Act would take the influence of big money out of our campaign finance system by offering candidates the choice of accessing public funds. This legislation alone would not blunt the damage caused by the misguided Supreme Court decision, but it would help restore fairness to our elections,” Congressman Rush Holt (D-NJ) said. “Today’s crucial Committee passage of the Fair Elections Now Act is great news for the future of our democracy,” said Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY). “I have long supported public financing as one of the best mechanisms we have for reducing the dangerous and corrupting influence of money in our electoral process. We cannot attest to the honesty and efficacy of our political process as long as private interests continue to dominate.” “Running for Congress can be prohibitively expensive, putting it out of reach of many worthy candidates, and this bill levels the playing field by giving qualified candidates access to funding. With committee passage of the Fair Elections Now Act, we are also one step closer to reducing the influence that money is all too often perceived to have in politics and restoring voter confidence in our institution,” said Congressman Mike Capuano (D-MA). “The Fair Elections Now Act is about helping the American people regain control of the political process,” said Congresswoman Donna Edwards (D-MD). “In the aftermath of the disastrous Citizens’ United decision that overturned decades of legal precedent by now allowing corporations unfettered spending in our political campaigns, the need for this legislation is even more critical. The Fair Elections Now Act strikes a balance between public financing and public oversight, giving the voice to the American people, not large corporations. Passing this bill out of the House Administration Committee is a significant and important step, and I look forward to this legislation coming to the House Floor for a vote.” "I have seen firsthand how a clean elections system has worked well in Maine, leveling the playing field and allowing more people to get involved in running for office. I'm excited about the prospect of bringing a similar system to the national level," said Congresswoman Chellie Pingree, (D-ME). Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) said, “Today’s markup is a critical step to ensure that people--not special interests--decide our elections, and to help restore public confidence in the election process. This reform legislation represents the best long-term solution to address the influence of big money in Washington that continues to fuel Americans’ ever-growing cynicism about the political process.” “This bill puts the people back in charge,” said Rep. Martin Heinrich (D-NM). “Fair elections mean public officials work for their constituents–not the special interest groups.” ###
09.22.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 22, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: DISAPPOINTED IN REPUBLICAN MEMBERS FOR VOTING AGAINST COLTSVILLE NATIONAL PARK, COSTING JOBS AND GROWTH Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after House Republicans voted against legislation to create a national park at the historic Colt Factory site. “I am disappointed that in today’s hyper-partisan atmosphere in Washington we can’t even get agreement to create a National Park to preserve one of our nation’s and our area’s most important historic manufacturing sites. This legislation was supported by the Republican Governor of our State and a bi-partisan coalition of local officials. Yet, Republicans in Washington still voted against the legislation, costing Connecticut and the nation jobs and economic development at a time when we can least afford them. I would like to thank those who did support this legislation, including the National Park Service, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, and numerous local organizations. I will continue to work to pass it and see the dream of a national park in Hartford become reality.” ###
09.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 22, 2010 CONTACT: Paul Mounds (Larson)/860-278-8888 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION URGES PRESIDENT OBAMA TO PROVIDE FEDERAL ASSISTANCE TO FAIRFIELD COUNTY STORM VICTIMS Washington, D.C. – Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation wrote to President Barack Obama yesterday urging him to reconsider FEMA’s rejection of Connecticut’s request for a federal disaster declaration for Fairfield County, which sustained severe weather damage, including from a tornado, on June 24, 2010. The delegation wrote in support of Governor Rell’s appeal to FEMA for the declaration, which would provide for federal assistance to help communities, businesses, and residents affected by the severe storm. The full text of the letter is below: September 21, 2010 The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We write in strong support of the State of Connecticut’s appeal for federal assistance for Fairfield County, which sustained tornado and storm damage on June 24, 2010 that greatly affected local governments, residents and businesses. As you are aware, on June 24, 2010, during a severe storm that battered Southwestern Connecticut, an EF 1 Tornado touched down in the City of Bridgeport. Winds of 100 miles per hour devastated a quarter mile stretch of the city. Subsequent FEMA-verified damage to the area totaled more than $2 million in public property damage, and $1 million in individual property damage. Significant damage has also been documented in the towns of Stratford, Trumbull, Weston, and Easton. These dollar amounts, while not astronomical, mean a tremendous amount to the communities affected. We believe that the circumstances in this case make clear that the federal government is uniquely capable to provide assistance, and should therefore reconsider its denial. Regrettably, this is not the only significant weather incident that led to significant damage in the area this year. In March, Fairfield County was granted a major disaster declaration, as well as Public and Individual Assistance, due to severe weather. At that time, FEMA recognized that “the resources of Connecticut and its municipalities have been overwhelmed by those events.” According to the Governor, FEMA officials are still in Fairfield County assisting with that incident. This should be a clear indication that the State and local governments are still over-extended and in need of federal assistance in this case. In addition, in the absence of a county government structure the entire burden of funding repairs and clean up of this disaster fall directly on the State and local authorities. This is a difficult time for State and local budgets as many of the impacted cities were facing budget shortfalls prior to the disaster. Unforeseen and unavoidable costs such as those related to this disaster represent a further strain on those budgets and there is potential that services available to area residents may be limited at a time when the need is great. In fact, 86 percent of the individuals impacted by the damage are considered low-income. Merely 17 percent had insurance to help cover the costs of such damage. Many of these individuals and families were renters, and given their income levels, it is not unlikely that many of them will be more dependent on City and State services for basic necessities unless federal assistance is provided. In short, without federal assistance, the affected households and businesses will not have access to the financial resources that will allow them to pick themselves up, dust themselves off, and get to work rebuilding their lives. These are precisely the circumstances for which federal disaster assistance was intended, and we hope that you will reconsider FEMA’s decision. Sincerely, Christopher J. DoddJoseph I. LiebermanJim Himes Rosa L. DeLauroJohn B. LarsonJoe CourtneyChristopher S. Murphy ###
09.20.2010	For Immediate Release: September 20, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 LARSON: CCAT WINS COMPETITIVE GRANT COMPETITION, WILL LEAD REGIONAL FUEL CELL INNOVATION CLUSTER Northeast Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Cluster Includes over 170 entities from New England and New York East Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Bernie Sweeney, Connecticut Director of the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), in announcing that the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technologies (CCAT) was one of 10 national winners of competitive grants to support the growth of the fuel cell industry. CCAT will receive $566,573 in federal funding as part of the SBA’s Regional Clusters Initiative to expand the existing Northeast Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Cluster in Connecticut and throughout the Northeast. CCAT, chief organizer and leader of the regional cluster since 2005, will partner with the Hydrogen Energy Center of Maine, the Massachusetts Hydrogen Coalition, the Clean Energy States Alliance (Vermont, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island) and the New York Fuel Cell Network to provide services to support job growth and enhance the competiveness of the region’s hydrogen and fuel cell supply chain. “Connecticut is home to 40 businesses associated with fuel cell technology, including two of our nation’s largest fuel cell companies. With over 2,100 direct and indirect jobs in the state due to this emerging industry, it is important we make the necessary investments to continue its growth,” said Congressman Larson, Co-Chair of the House Hydrogen-Fuel Cell Caucus. “Under the leadership of the SBA and CCAT, the Northeast Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Cluster will present a strong blueprint to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry and create a structure to promote job creation and support economic growth throughout the region.” The Northeast Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Cluster includes over 170 small businesses, local manufacturers, academic institutions, workforce investment boards, and other public and private agencies in the New England and New York regions. Currently over 3,000 workers are employed by the numerous organizations associated with the cluster. From 2007-2009, the total amount of units of fuel cells shipped increased from 7,000 units to 15,000 units and estimates show that this cluster has the potential to capture $14 to $54 billion annually of the global fuel cell and hydrogen markets. Congressman Larson added, “I have long supported the great potential fuel cells have to impact Connecticut economically and environmentally- to create high-paying jobs and clean, affordable energy. The Small Business Administration deserves praise and recognition for selecting CCAT’s proposal out of the hundreds of applications seeking funding. This investment by the federal government is further evidence of Connecticut’s standing as the national leader in hydrogen and fuel cell technology, and why we need to continue our efforts locally to preserve that status.” ###
09.16.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 16, 2010 CONTACT: For Larson – Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 For Pingree – Willy Ritch/ 207-841-8400 LARSON, PINGREE ANNOUNCE FAIR ELECTIONS LEGISLATION TO RECEIVE COMMITTEE MARK-UP Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and Congresswoman Chellie Pingree (ME-01)announced today that their Fair Elections legislation will receive a full committee mark-up by the Committee on House Administration on Thursday, September 23, 2010 at 11:00 am. The Fair Elections Now Act would put elections back in the hands of ordinary Americans by replacing big donor, special interest funded elections with Fair Elections – supported by small dollar local contributions and a match from the Fair Elections fund. With Fair Elections, candidates can focus on their constituents instead of lobbyists; and issues — instead of fundraising. Congressman Larson said, “I didn’t come to Washington to spend my time raising money. I came here to work on behalf of my friends and neighbors back home and solve the issues facing this nation. The Fair Elections Now Act would allow candidates like me to get back to the real business our constituents sent us to Washington for and it would help us make sure the voices of everyday Americans are heard more loudly in elections. This committee mark-up is the culmination of years of work on election reform led by Congressman John Tierney and Congressman David Obey. I am proud that the Committee has decided to take up this legislation and urge the members to vote it out of Committee so we can pursue a vote on the House floor.” “The American people deserve a better government than they are getting,” Congresswoman Pingree said. “The big banks and drug companies have way too much influence in Washington. If they want to invest in our government, let them pay their fair share of taxes rather than paying for politicians who’ll write them special tax breaks. It’s time to get corporate money out of politics and put elections back in the hands of ordinary Americans.” ###
09.14.2010	Immediate Release: September 14, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas 202-225-7295 LARSON: SENATE APPROPS COMMITTEE VOTES DOWN FUNDING FOR F-136 EXTRA ENGINE Washington D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement in response to the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for Defense decision earlier today not to approve funding for the F-136 extra engine in their markup of the FY 2011 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill: “I am pleased that the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee for Defense acted swiftly to reject the F-136 Extra engine. I will continue fighting against this engine that wastes millions of dollars of taxpayer money and does nothing to improve our national defense. With the continued support of President Obama, Defense Secretary Gates, and now the Senate, we will win this battle on behalf of our troops and the American people.” ###
09.14.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE; September 14, 2010 CONTACT: Paul Mounds (Larson)/860-278-8888 CONNECTICUT HOUSE DELEGATION URGES INSURANCE COMMISSIONER TO POLICE EXCESSIVE RATE INCREASES BY INSURANCE PROVIDERS WASHINGTON, DC – The Connecticut House delegation – Reps. Joe Courtney (CT-02), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), John Larson (CT-01), Chris Murphy (CT-05) and Jim Himes (CT-04) – sent a letter today to State Insurance Commissioner Thomas Sullivan urging that his office be vigilant of excessive rate increases by insurance providers. Although evidence suggests that the costs associated with complying with the new health care law is negligible or small, companies like Anthem have sought exorbitant rate increases across the country and in Connecticut. Additionally, according to an August 2009 report by the Commonwealth Fund, insurance premiums for single and family plans in CT increased by 29 percent and 33 percent, respectively, between 2003 and 2008 – before the current health care law was debated. The full text of the letter is below: September 14, 2010 The Honorable Thomas Sullivan, CommissionerConnecticut Department of InsuranceMarket Street, Connecticut 06103 Dear Commissioner Sullivan, Health insurance reform was a pillar of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) passed into law last March. And while the bulk of these reforms will not fully take effect until 2014, a few select insurance changes will be required of existing plans beginning in plan years after September 23, 2010. These changes include adult dependent coverage, the elimination of lifetime limits, regulated annual limits, and removal of pre-existing condition exclusions for children. While we understand that requiring additional benefits may come with some extra costs, empirical evidence suggests that the costs for these specific changes are relatively low, and in some cases negligible. In light of the pending deadline for these insurance reforms, we would encourage you to remain vigilant of excessive rate increase requests by insurance providers that surpass expected costs of these changes. Over the summer, a number of Connecticut employers that self-insure including United Technologies Corporation (UTC), Lego, and Mohegan Sun proactively chose to adopt adult dependent coverage, prior to the implementation date. These companies, and many more like them around the country, made these changes with no additional costs to their employees. While we understand that a similar Connecticut state law was in place at the time of passage, fully adhering to the adult dependent coverage requirements under PPACA should come at very limited costs to policies under your jurisdiction in the state as demonstrated by UTC, Lego, and Mohegan Sun. We would further note that the law provided for flexibility for adopting certain insurance reforms, where the impact on consumers would prove to be too burdensome. Specifically, the Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight (OCIIO) under the Department of Health and Human Services recently released guidance for waivers of restrictions on annual benefit limits. These waivers will soon be available to insurance providers where the insurance changes would result in a decrease in access to benefits or a significant increase in premiums. The availability of waivers further underscores the unjustified nature of exorbitant rate increases. In June, we requested that you reexamine Anthem’s premium rate increases in Connecticut following reports that incorrect data was used to determine premium rate increases requests of nearly 40 percent in California. We appreciate your efforts with reexamining Anthem’s request in Connecticut and would further request that you apply this scrutiny to premium rate increase requests for 2011 and future years. Passage of the PPACA should not be a shield for exorbitant premium increases and Connecticut’s recent receipt of a $1 million Premium Rate Review Grant should help ensure that consumer protection is prioritized. Thank you for taking this input into consideration and we look forward to continuing dialogue on consumer protection as insurance reform implementation continues. Sincerely, Joe Courtney Rosa L. DeLauroJohn B. Larson Jim Himes Christopher S. Murphy ###
09.14.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 14, 2010 CONTACT: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 REPUBLICAN LEADERS BACK PLAN TO PRIVATIZE SOCIAL SECURITY Congressman Larson, Seniors Task Force Members Respond Washington, DC –Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, and the House Democratic Caucus Congressional Task Force on Seniors blasted top-ranking Republicans for their endorsement of a plan to privatize Social Security and turn Medicare into a voucher program. The plan was included in the book, “Young Guns: A New Generation of Conservative Leaders,” written by top House Republicans Rep. Eric Cantor (VA-07), Rep. Paul Ryan (WI-07), and Rep. Kevin McCarthy (CA-22). The book includes the most sweeping Republican support for undermining and destroying these bedrock programs since they tried and failed to privatize Social Security in 2005. “Congressional Republicans are threatening to send America back to the stone-age with this ill-conceived plan,” said Representative John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. “Republicans are once again trying to undermine and dismantle Social Security and Medicare, vital programs that millions of Americans rely on. Meanwhile, Democrats are fighting to protect these programs and America’s seniors.” The Republican plan is a drastic attempt to balance the budget on the backs of our nation’s workers, children, the disabled, and seniors. Widely supported by Congressional Republicans, the plan would cut Social Security retirement and survivor benefits for all workers. It would divert trillions of dollars from the Social Security Trust Fund into private accounts and subject workers’ basic retirement security to market volatility and the risk of losses. It would turn Medicare into a voucher program that would force seniors to purchase insurance on the private market. The Seniors Task Force, created by Congressman Larson, has more than 40 members from the Democratic Caucus and is working to protect seniors’ rights and raise awareness of policies that will improve the health and well-being of America’s seniors. For more information about the Seniors Task Force, please go to https://www.dems.gov/seniors. ###
09.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 13, 2010 CONTACT: Paul Mounds (Larson) 860-278-8888 LARSON, MEMBERS OF CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION, AND U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE OFFICIAL ANNOUNCE $93 MILLION STATEWIDE BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS GRANT HARTFORD, CT – Today, members of Connecticut’s Congressional delegation announced a $93 million Recovery Act investment that will help improve broadband internet access to improve the state’s education system and public safety capabilities. The funding was announced at two events, one this morning in Hartford and the second this afternoon in Stamford, where Congressional delegation members were joined by Lawrence E. Strickling, Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the U.S. Department of Commerce. This $93 million federal grant from the National Telecommunications and Information Administration will benefit residents across the state, improving public safety and increasing access to the internet for students of all ages, and the general public who use public library computer access. The Connecticut Department of Information Technology, in its grant application, noted that this award could create nearly 1,200 jobs. Connecticut will be able to access the funds over a three year period. For Connecticut’s K-12 school districts, colleges and universities, public libraries and public computing centers, this project aims to deliver 100 megabits per second service. The project would extend 675 miles of new fiber optics, install the necessary hardware to support the 100 Mbps service, including three new hub routers and offer user support to all Connecticut Education Network members through the Connecticut State Department of Information. Connecticut’s public safety system will benefit immensely from this grant. In 2006, a study by the Connecticut Office of Statewide Emergency Telecommunications recommended the establishment of a new, integrated public safety data network. The study also found that the network infrastructure systems that Connecticut public safety agencies utilize barely met the bandwidth requirements and were grossly inadequate for near or long term projected future data transmission requirements. So this grant will fund a two phase project to update the network infrastructure. “High-speed Internet access is increasingly important for communities to thrive in today’s digital economy,” said Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information and NTIA Administrator Lawrence E. Strickling. “This Recovery Act investment will improve public safety and educational services throughout the state, create jobs, and help lay the groundwork for sustainable economic growth.” “This critical funding for broadband infrastructure represents an investment in Connecticut’s future,” said U.S. Senator Chris Dodd. “Not only will this funding help create Connecticut jobs now, but it will also help to build a strong foundation for long-term growth and success, which will benefit businesses, students, and communities across the state well into the 21st century.” “Infrastructure is the lifeblood of our economy, and broadband represents the cutting edge infrastructure of the 21st century. In order to compete with the advanced and emerging power centers across the globe, these investments are absolutely critical. With this funding, our state will not only be able to preserve and create critical jobs – it will open doors to new jobs for all our residents. And it will spur technological advancements in education, health and public safety that will provide longer-term economic benefits. I look forward to seeing these projects implemented, and I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure that Connecticut remains a leader in technological innovation, and that all our residents have the tools they need to succeed in the 21st century economy,” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). “This funding will greatly increase broadband access in Connecticut by enhancing public safety capabilities for our first responders, improving educational services for our students, and upgrading the overall broadband infrastructure in our state’s underserved regions. The Recovery Act provided targeted investments throughout the nation to spur the economy and grow jobs. The Broadband USA funding will help facilitate economic growth and create local jobs in the state, specifically in our urban and rural communities,” Congressman John Larson (CT-1). “Increasing access to faster internet service can do so many things for so many people across the state, including help people find jobs faster, open up new doors for students of all ages, and assist our public safety officials. And installing this technology won’t happen without supporting jobs in our communities. It’s a huge win for the state and our future economic growth,” said Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5). “I welcome this transformational project for eastern Connecticut and the entire state. The benefits to our economy, education, and public safety are significant and far-reaching. This broadband upgrade will spark further economic recovery through immediate job creation and a long term competitive edge for our region.” Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2). “This award is another example of our work to create jobs in the near term, while also building a foundation for sustainable job creation in the long term,” said Congressman Jim Himes (CT-4). “Projects that will benefit from this investment will connect those who have, for too long, been without the full economic, educational and social benefits of high-speed internet access.” # # #
09.09.2010	For Immediate Release: September 9, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CONDEMNS THREATENED BURNING OF THE KORAN Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to threats from a minister in Florida to burn copies of the Koran, the Islamic holy book, on September 11th. “The character of this country is built on mutual respect for people of all races, religions and genders. That is why it saddens me to hear my fellow Americans acting in hatred and intolerance towards Muslims and the entire Islamic faith. “Instead of inciting distrust and magnifying the differences between us, religious leaders should be working to bring together people of all religions to work towards peace and the common good. I was heartened to hear about a church in Tennessee that opened its doors to its Muslim neighbors for their celebration of Ramadan while their Mosque was under construction. It is gestures like that that will make this country a better place and help heal wounds around the world. “Every member of Congress should condemn any attempt to defame the Islamic faith or incite hostilities between religions. These actions are counter to our American values and have the potential to put our troops abroad in harm’s way and help terrorist groups recruit new members.” ###
09.02.2010	For Immediate Release: September 2nd 2010 THREE LOCAL WOUNDED VETERANS RECEIVE FREE LASIK EYE PROCEDURE, CONGRESSMAN LARSON APPLAUDS NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP TO SUPPORT WOUNDED WARRIOR PROJECT Wethersfield, CT – Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson applauded and praised the work of LCA-Vision, Inc, a leading provider of laser vision correction services under the LasikPlus® Brand and Fisher House Foundation, Inc. for their partnership to provide laser vision correction free of charge to members of the Wounded Warriors Project – American soldiers and veterans injured while serving our nation in Iraq and Afghanistan, their spouses or caregivers. The three local veterans who were injured during their military deployments joined Congressman Larson, David Thomas, Chief Operating Officer of LCA-Vision, and Connecticut hero and Medal of Honor recipient Paul Bucha at the Hartford LasikPlus® Vision Center in Wethersfield where they spoke about the importance of the surgery in their own lives. Later in the day, veterans: Joshua Martin of Groton, Jose Gonzalez of Meriden and Douglas McBrierty of Guilford, will undergo Laser vision correction. “I would like to send my deepest gratitude to LCA-Vision, the Fisher House, and the Wounded Warrior Project for partnering together to make a real difference in the lives of these three heroes. These men are a true inspiration.” said Congressman Larson. “Many veterans, wounded honorably serving our country, return home unable to complete tasks many take for granted, like putting on glasses or contacts. This program is changing the quality of life for wounded veterans across the country and I am proud to witness it here firsthand today.” Congressman Larson is heading up efforts in the House of Representatives to increase the access of corrective eye surgery for our Armed Forces. He added, “I have been in contact with the Defense Department and will continue working with my colleagues on making corrective vision services more readily available to our men and women in uniform.” “LCA-Vision, and our dedicated team of medical professionals, is very proud to be working in concert with Congressman Larson, the Wounded Warrior Project and the Fisher House to assist our injured service men and women alleviate one less daily burden while enhancing their quality of life,” states David Thomas, COO of LCA Vision. “These heroes have already sacrificed so much, and this program is our way of honoring their service to our country.” LCA-Vision is pleased to support and applaud Congressman Larson’s efforts to remove glasses and contacts from the battlefield for military personnel. The enhanced vision of our elite fighting force will not only enrich their overall lives, but improve the effectiveness of our troops. According to medical research, laser vision correction is considered a performance enhancing procedure, especially critical when it comes to enhancing night vision activities. About LasikPlus® Program Partnership The unique partnership between LCA-Vision / LasikPlus®, the Wounded Warrior Project and the Fisher House Foundation will benefit eligible U.S. soldiers and veterans injured during their deployment in Iraq and Afghanistan who are members of the Wounded Warrior Project. Through the partnership, LasikPlus® will provide laser vision correction free of charge, while Fisher House provides the free airfare for soldiers, spouses and/or their primary caregivers to travel to the LasikPlus® vision center. For more information, please visit www.lca-vision.com, www.lasikplus.com, www.woundedwarriorproject.org andwww.fisherhouse.org ###
09.02.2010	Left to Right (U.S. Congressman John B. Larson and Rosemarie Burton, President of Klingberg Family Centers) For Immediate Release: September 2nd 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: KLINGBERG FAMILY CENTERS OPEN NEW FACILITY IN HARTFORD, EXPAND SERVICES IN REGION Hartford, CT—Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) joined Klingberg Family Centers President Rosemarie Burton in opening the organization’s new facility in Hartford’s South End neighborhood of Sheldon/Charter Oak. Last December, Congressman Larson helped secure $400,000 federal funding to support the expansion of the building. The organization, which serves children and families recovering from the perils of abuse and neglect, is able to expand their services throughout the Hartford region. “I am very pleased to help mark this new stage in the continuing growth of Klingberg Family Centers and our capital city,” Congressman Larson said. “Klingberg Family Centers does invaluable work every day in Hartford and across the state to support the growth and well-being of our communities. This new facility will provide hope and opportunity to the hundreds of children and families in the Greater Hartford region affected by various aspects of abuse and help them transition to live emotionally happier and healthier lives.” “We deeply appreciate Congressman Larson’s dedication to helping families access the services they need in their own community,” said Rosemarie Burton. “The facility, located on Charter Oak Avenue near major highways and a bus route, will give area families greater access to Klingberg’s outpatient and in-home services.” Founded in New Britain in 1903, Klingberg Family Centers is a non-profit organization committed to offering life-changing community services to children and families who have suffered through severe family problems, emotional and behavioral issues, mental illness, and other difficulties stemming from abuse or neglect. Through programs such as residential treatment programs, child abuse treatment services, and family enrichment services, Klingberg Family Centers empowers children and families to be confident and strive to reach their full potential. More than 3,000 families throughout the state receive services each year from the Klingberg Family Centers, with the largest concentration in the Greater Hartford region. Vice President of Community Services David Lawrence-Hawley said that the new, permanent location will help expand Klingberg’s services to area residents. “Klingberg Family Centers has rented space in Hartford for more than 10 years in an effort to be more accessible to the clients we serve in the city and surrounding towns. The new location allows us to significantly expand our outpatient counseling services for children and families. We will also have more space to hold classes, support groups and workshops for parents working to strengthen their families,” Lawrence-Hawley said. ###
09.01.2010	Left to Right, Congressman John B. Larson, Michael Polo, President of AdChem Manufacturing Technologies, and Anne Evans, Connecticut District Director of U.S. Department of Commerce For Immediate Release: September 1st, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson and U.S. Dept of Commerce Present Local Small Business with Connecticut Exporter of the Year Award Manchester, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Anne Evans, Connecticut District Director of the U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC), to announce that AdChem Manufacturing Technologies (ACMT) of Manchester was named the DOC’s 2010 Connecticut Exporter of the Year. The award was presented at the company’s headquarters on 369 Progress Dr in Manchester. ACMT, a small business specializing in the manufacture, overhaul, and repair of aircraft engine components, currently employs 44 employees and their increased exporting efforts allowed them to create five new jobs over the past year. Receiving the award, acknowledging the company’s recent growth and success in exporting to Europe and Asia, was ACMT President Michael Polo. “I congratulate AdChem Manufacturing Technologies for being named our state’s Exporter of the Year. Michael Polo and his staff are prime examples of how ‘Making it in America’ can help stimulate our local economy,” said Congressman Larson. “This is a homegrown company, selling their products around the world while creating jobs here at home. Manufacturing is in our state’s DNA and ‘Made in America’ is making a comeback.” “AdChem Manufacturing Technologies is a longtime client of the US Commercial Service office here in Middletown and has proven through their work with our trade assistance programs to be a shining example of export success,” added Anne Evans, Connecticut District Director of DOC Through events organized and sponsored by both Congressman Larson and the U.S. Exporting Assistance Council (USEAC), ACMT received the necessary guidance and support to successfully ship their products to companies in Singapore, the United Kingdom and South Korea. Earlier in the year, ACMT President Michael Polo participated in a seminar hosted by Congressman Larson and the Connecticut US Exporting Assistance Center with Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Ambassador Demtrios Marantis and also traveled on a trade mission to Israel where he met with several potential clients. As a result of the trade mission, Polo plans to return to Israel in October and is currently in discussions to sign an agreement with one of Israel’s leading manufacturers of precision blades for industrial gas turbine engines. Michael Polo, President of ACMT stated, “We have doubled our exports in the past twelve months focused on Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Our Overhaul and Repair capabilities in the Commercial, Military and ground turbine markets are where our focus has been and being in Connecticut with virtually every subcontracted process for Jet engine or helicopter components within driving distance, has surely only helped our sales efforts. The US Department of Commerce office headed by Anne Evans has been an invaluable resource as well as Brenda Eighmey from the CT District Export Council.” Created by President Obama in March 2010, the National Export Initiative is an interagency partnership, including the Department of Commerce and the Small Business Administration, tasked to address our nation’s trade barriers by meeting the goal of doubling exports over the next 5 years. In order to accomplish the goal, Federal agencies will be assisting firms, especially small businesses, to overcome the hurdles of entering new export markets. This initiative is estimated to create thousands of jobs in Connecticut alone. Congressman Larson added, “President Obama has a goal of doubling our nation’s exports over the next five years, and I am proud that Connecticut has answered that call by increasing exports by 15% this year alone. However with 95% of potential customers for businesses residing outside of the USA, and less than one percent of our nation’s 30 million companies exporting products, it is important for our nation to continue our efforts to increase exporting and provide our small businesses- the backbone of our economy- the resources and guidance to tap into this great opportunity.” ###
08.26.2010	For Immediate Release: August 26, 2010 CONNECTICUT CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS QUESTION PENTAGON OVER RUSSIAN-BUILT HELICOPTER ORDER Washington, DC— Six members of the Connecticut Congressional delegation wrote to Secretary Robert M. Gates, questioning the recent decision by the Department of the Navy, Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) to purchase 21 Russian-made helicopters. The aircraft, which would be used by the Afghan Security Forces, are to be purchased without a competitive bidding process by the Defense Department from a state-owned Russian corporation that manufactures its helicopters in Russia. The Members of Congress who signed the letter request the analysis of alternative platforms considered by the Defense Department and make clear they believe the contract should be open to a fair competition that considers American made options. In their letter to Secretary Gates, the Members of Congress wrote, “Particularly in light of the great commitment the United States is making to Afghanistan, rather than procuring Russian helicopters with unclear reliability and cost, we believe it is only prudent to consider proposals from U.S. manufacturers, employing American workers, with a history of providing the Defense Department with the best equipment at the best value to the U.S. taxpayer.” The letter was signed by: Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), and U.S Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), and Christopher Murphy (CT-5). The text of the letter is below. August 26, 2010 The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary of Defense The Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301-1000 Dear Secretary Gates, We write to express our concern with the Department of the Navy, Naval Air Systems Command (NAVAIR) Request for Proposals (RFP) to procure twenty-one Russian-made Mi-17 helicopters for use by the Afghan Security Forces (No. 00019-10-R-0032). Specifically, we are troubled that the Department seeks to continue purchasing Russian-made aircraft without opening the contract for a fair competition that considers U.S. manufactured helicopters. As you know, there have been concerns over the Department of Defense’s previous purchases of Russian-made aircraft for the Iraqi Armed Forces and Afghanistan Security Forces. In response to these concerns, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Michèle Flournoy advised in January that you directed a comprehensive review to identify non-standard rotary requirements and alternative platforms. Yet, last month NAVAIR issued an RFP limited to Mi-17 variant helicopters, which are only manufactured in Russiaby the state-owned corporation Kazan Helicopters. Executing what is effectively a sole source contract to a Russian corporation rather than providing for a full and open competition ignores the fact that other American made options are available that can not only meet or exceed the requirements, but can more assuredly do so on time and on budget. In fact, the State Department is currently procuring modernized S-61 aircraft with capabilities similar to those of the Mi-17 for use in Afghanistan. In addition, we believe that awarding the contract to Kazan Helicopters would violate the Buy American Act as its helicopters are manufactured in Russia without more than 50 percent of its helicopter components manufactured in the United States or another qualifying country. With a viable American made alternative readily available, any Buy American Act requirement waiver would be very difficult to justify. As you are aware, a protest has been filed with the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) raising these and other concerns with the RFP. As the GAO considers the protest, we respectfully request that you provide us with the analysis of the non-standard rotary requirements and alternative platforms your Department presumably completed prior to issuing the RFP. In addition, we strongly urge you to re-issue the RFP in a manner that provides for a full and open competition in compliance with the Buy American Act. Particularly in light of the great commitment the United States is making to Afghanistan, rather than procuring Russian helicopters with unclear reliability and cost, we believe it is only prudent to consider proposals from U.S. manufacturers, employing American workers, with a history of providing the Defense Department with the best equipment at the best value to the U.S. taxpayer. We appreciate your prompt attention to this critical matter, and look forward to hearing from you soon. Sincerely, Christopher J. DoddU.S. Senator Joseph I. LiebermanU.S. Senator Rosa L. DeLauroMember of Congress John B. LarsonMember of Congress Joe CourtneyMember of Congress Christopher J. MurphyMember of Congress CC:Michèle Flournoy, Under Secretary of Defense for PolicyRay Mabus, Secretary of the Navy ###
08.17.2010	For Immediate Release: August 17, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON VISITS LOCAL COMMUNITY HEALTH CARE CENTER, TOUTS FEDERAL FUNDING TO IMPROVE HEALTH SERVICES East Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson visited East Hartford Community Health Care, Inc (EHCHC) to discuss how approximately $840,000 in federal funding will assist the center in expanding its facility and serving more individuals in the community. In 2009, EHCHC was the recipient of two Community Health Center related Recovery Act grants including $619,900 to fund the expansion of the facility and $220,296 to help support increased demand for health care services. Congressman Larson was provided a tour of the facility by Marjorie Berry, CEO of East Hartford Community Healthcare. “I would like to thank Marjorie Berry and her staff at East Hartford Community Health Care for the admirable work they do to serve the everyday health needs of seniors, families and workers in our region. This important funding will be directly invested to improving health care services in East Hartford while creating local jobs during this current economic climate,” said Congressman Larson.“Community Health Care centers, such as the one in East Hartford, serve a greater role in providing quality, affordable health services to the uninsured and underinsured residents of our communities and I am proud to support their mission.” A recent study found that the more than $24 million in Recovery Act funding to community health centers in the Greater Hartford area will generate approximately $40 million dollars in economic activity for the region. In all, the $1.85 billion that has been invested in health centers nationwide through the Recovery Act will create $3.2 billion in new economic activity, including $61 million in Connecticut. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson was awarded with the 2010 “Distinguished Community Health Leadership Award” from the National Association of Community Health Centers. The award was given to members of Congress who have gone above and beyond in championing broader access to primary health care and strengthening the investment in Community Health Centers. ###
08.16.2010	For Immediate Release: August 16, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON, LOCAL OFFICIALS CELEBRATE GROUNDBREAKING OF NEW EAST HARTFORD FIRE STATION Only Town in Connecticut to Receive Federal Fire Construction Funding (Left to Right: East Hartford Fire Chief John Oates, Oldest Living East Hartford Retired Fire Fighter Sam Cipolla, East Hartford Mayor Melody Currey, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson) East Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson joined East Hartford Mayor Melody Currey and Fire Chief John Oates for a groundbreaking ceremony to commemorate the beginning of construction on the town’s new Fire House. Last year, Congressman Larson was influential in helping to secure approximately $3.5 million in federal funding to support the construction of the new building. “I am unbelievably proud of the fire department and the entire town of East Hartford for this great addition to our public safety infrastructure. This project will create jobs immediately and enhance overall safety and emergency response in our community,” said Congressman Larson. “Today’s ceremony wouldn’t have been possible without the funding provided by the Recovery Act and the hard work of Mayor Currey, Chief Oates, and their respective staffs.” Fire House 5, located on Brewer Street, in the southwest portion of East Hartford, received funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act’s Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction Grants (SCG) program. East Hartford was the only town in Connecticut and one of only three in New England to receive the SCG funding. The new fire house will be Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certified, thus meeting the highest energy efficiency and green building standards in our nation. The LEED rating system was designed by the U.S. Green Building Council to encourage and facilitate the development of more energy efficient, environmentally safe and sustainable buildings. Congressman Larson added, “The new Fire House 5 will be an invaluable resource in providing for the safety of the families and visitors of East Hartford. The LEED-certified rating will help save taxpayers’ money and make this a model for future fire house construction in the state and across our nation.” In the spring of 2009, Congressman Larson supported East Hartford’s grant application with a letter to the Department of Homeland Security, and in December 2009, Vice President Joe Biden visited East Hartford to officially announce funding for the project. Today’s groundbreaking was the culmination of a long effort on the part of East Hartford who first presented plans to replace the old Fire House 5 over five years ago. It was not until East Hartford received federal funding that the project was finally able to move into the construction phase. Construction of the new fire house is expected to be completed within one year. ###
08.10.2010	For Immediate Release: August 10, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON LEADS THE HOUSE IN MOMENT OF SILENCE IN HONOR OF VICTIMS OF MANCHESTER SHOOTING Washington, DC- Today, one week after the death of eight employees of Hartford Distributors, Inc. in Manchester, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) addressed the House of Representatives and led his fellow members in a moment of silence in honor of the deceased and their families. Larson stated, “Eight men went to work that morning, some of them followed in the footsteps of their fathers and brothers before them, many of whom had served and worked at this family business for over 20 years. Neither they nor their families and friends could anticipate the senseless, unthinkable actions that occurred on that morning. But yet bad things, happen to good people and through this, so many ordinary people are going through such extraordinary circumstances.“ Below are Congressman Larson’s remarks in advance of the moment of silence (as prepared for delivery): “Madam Speaker, I rise solemnly with a heavy heart and deep sadness. “I thank my colleagues for indulging me the time to express the heartfelt condolences of the nation and this body. “I always empathized with my fellow colleagues when they address the House about fateful events that occur in their communities. I just never imagined that tragedy would strike so close to home…it’s hard to conceive bad things happening to good people. “On the morning of August 3rd, 2010, 8 men went to work. Some looking forward to vacation, others nearing retirement. “None expecting the calamity that would follow. “On that fateful day at Hartford Distributors Inc in Manchester , a former employee shot and killed eight of his fellow workers and injured many more, before taking his own life. “Eight men went to work that morning, some of them followed in the footsteps of their fathers and brothers before them, many of whom had served and worked at this family business for over 20 years. “Neither they nor their families and friends could anticipate the senseless, unthinkable actions that occurred on that morning. But yet bad things, happen to good people and through this, so many ordinary people are going through such extraordinary circumstances. “What sustains everyone in Greater Hartford is that somehow, everyone in the community knew someone or was themselves a family member or friend of someone at HDI. “This experience has been horrifying for the families and employees. They are going through the post traumatic stress of a war zone, where they watched innocent people die at the hands of a distraught worker. “Ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances took solace and comfort in themselves, their communities, friends and family. “Together at Manchester High School as employees of HDI consoled with their family; “At a memorial, united by the words of Rev. Daniel Sullivan and Archbishop Henry J. Mansel in South Windsor as the community gathered for reflection and prayer, “At a candlelight vigil at Center Springs Park in Manchester. “These 8 men, Bill Ackerman of East Windsor Bryan Cirigliano of Newington Francis Fazio of Bristol Louis Felder Jr., of Stamford Victor James of Windsor Edwin Kennison of East Hartford Craig Pepin of South Windsor Douglas Scruton of Manchester “Many of them were members of the Teamsters Union Local 1035, but beyond that they were husbands, fathers, grandfathers, coaches and friends. “They were leaders and stalwarts in the communities they lived and served. All were part of this family business. That’s what makes this so tragic. “In the midst of this, you have a family business. The Hollander family: first under the stewardship of Jules Hollander, and now under his son Ross, have run this business since 1955. “I know this family personally. I was there with Ross on that day, and he was there on behalf of his employees, thinking aloud: “Where do we go from here?” “He stated with certainty, “I know all of these people will be paid and taken care of and we will provide for their families.” “The Hollander and Stack Families, and their employees are prepared to roll up their sleeves and lock arms and go back and start over. “In so many ways, we owe that to the men we lost and the communities they serve. “Eight men went to work on August 3rd, some looking forward to retirement, spending more time with their families, enjoying life with the ones they loved. “This event will leave a lasting mark, this is the time to help the families and this business cope with this tragedy and heal. “The community has rallied around them and will continue to. “This can only enhance their memories and purpose of life by helping each other go forward. “In the end, all we have is one another in this great nation of ours and in times like these. We lock arms with the people of Hartford Distributors and move forward toward a more perfect union. God bless them, their families and America. “I ask that the Congress rise for a moment of silence in memory of these eight men and their families.” ###
08.06.2010	For Immediate Release: August 6, 2010 CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS FROM CONNECTICUT, MASSACHUSETTS, AND VERMONT SUPPORT APPLICATION FOR HIGH-SPEED RAIL FUNDS Federal Funding Will Help Establish High-Speed and Improve Intercity Rail Service in Central New England Washington, DC – Twenty members of the Congressional delegations of Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Vermont wrote to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray Lahood and the Administrator of the Federal Railroad Administration Joseph C. Szabo today in support of the application submitted by Connecticut, in partnership with Massachusetts and Vermont, requesting $220 million in federal high-speed intercity passenger rail funds. The application requests federal funding for rail improvements between New Haven and Springfield, which will help connect New York City with central Connecticut, Boston, western Massachusetts, Vermont, and Montreal. In their letter of support, the Members of Congress wrote, “Fast and frequent rail service will take cars and trucks off these congested roads, reducing emissions and improving energy efficiency. The proposed rail network that integrates major seaports, airports and transit systems will significantly improve the movement of freight, and regional and intercity travel. As a result, we expect the corridor to enable livable communities to thrive and state and local economies to grow.” The following members of Congress supported Connecticut’s application: Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), John Kerry (D-MA), Scott Brown (R-MA), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and U.S Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Christopher Murphy (CT-5), Jim Himes (CT-4), Barney Frank (MA-4), Richard Neal (MA-2), John Olver (MA-1), James McGovern (MA-3), William Delahunt (MA-10), Michael Capuano (MA-8), Stephen Lynch (MA-9), Niki Tsongas (MA-5), and Peter Welch (VT). Full text of the letter is below and attached: August 6, 2010 Dear Secretary LaHood and Administrator Szabo: We write in support of the High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail capital grant application submitted by the State of Connecticut, in partnership with the states of Massachusetts and Vermont and with the support of Amtrak, to upgrade significant segments of the Springfield Rail Line. These critical improvements will help provide the foundation for New England’s regional rail vision. As you know, the state of Connecticut has been working closely with the states of Massachusetts and Vermont and Amtrak to better link the region’s cities and towns with New York City, Boston and Montreal. This regional rail vision requires significant improvements to segments of the rail network, including upgrades to the Springfield Line between New Haven, CT and Springfield, MA. This capital grant application would provide support for double tracking between New Haven and Springfield and improvements to signals, communications, crossings, bridges, and stations on the line. Upgrades to the Springfield Line will enable improved mobility and future connectivity along two important routes—between Montreal and New York City through the Knowledge Corridor and between New York City and Boston via the Inland Route. The Knowledge Corridor will eventually connect Springfield to East Northfield, MA through several college towns, providing a more direct route for the Vermonter service between St. Albans, VT, New York City and Washington, DC. Further development of the Inland Route will allow travel between New York City and Boston, through New Haven, Springfield, and Worcester, MA. The Inland Route serving central New England is an essential alternative to the heavily traveled and capacity constrained Northeast Corridor on Connecticut’s shoreline. The Northeast has a population density over three times that of the nation as a whole, with 80 percent of the population living within 25 miles of an existing or proposed intercity passenger rail corridor. The proximity of metro areas in one of the busiest and most congested air travel markets in the country makes intercity rail a logical and worthwhile transportation option for the region. Improvements to the corridor between New Haven and Springfield will grow ridership by enabling more roundtrips and faster travel times. For example, proposed upgrades will cut two hours of travel time between White River Junction, VT and New York City. This expansion in rail service is expected to increase ridership over 50 percent in CT, MA, and VT. A fully developed passenger rail system in these three states will parallel the region’s major highway system, which includes Interstate 91 (CT, MA, and VT), Interstate 89 (VT), and Interstate 90 (MA.) Fast and frequent rail service will take cars and trucks off these congested roads, reducing emissions and improving energy efficiency. The proposed rail network that integrates major seaports, airports and transit systems will significantly improve the movement of freight, and regional and intercity travel. As a result, we expect the corridor to enable livable communities to thrive and state and local economies to grow. This application includes extensive rail planning efforts by the states of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont in close collaboration with Amtrak. The proposal has a thorough service development plan and environmental documentation. A total of five public informational hearings were held in the three states seeking public input on the project. This rail vision has been welcomed with overwhelming support, including the approval of all freight carriers in the region. And the state of Connecticut will be providing a substantial commitment of $260 million in state funding. We understand the Federal Railroad Administration is faced with many difficult funding decisions in the high-speed rail and intercity passenger rail program. However, we would like to stress the transformational impact this project will have on the economy and mobility in Connecticut, Massachusetts and Vermont and the rest of New England. Thank you in advance for your full consideration of this application and your support for New England’s vision for a high-speed and intercity rail network. Sincerely, ###
08.04.2010	For Immediate Release: August 4, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON, FORMER CONGRESSWOMAN KENNELLY CELEBRATE 75th ANNIVERSARY OF SOCIAL SECURITY IN EAST HARTFORD East Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) celebrated the 75th anniversary of Social Security at the South End Senior Center in East Hartford. Congressman Larson was joined by former Connecticut First District Congresswoman Barbara Kennelly, President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, and Judith Stein, founder and Executive Director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy. Congressman Larson, Kennelly and Stein spoke of the importance of preserving Social Security and Medicare and took questions from seniors in the audience before cutting a celebratory cake. “Today, we celebrate the genius of President Roosevelt, who recognized the need for a safety net for our nation’s most vulnerable citizens as the country climbed out from the grips of the Great Depression,” said Congressman Larson. “As we find ourselves, 75 years later, recovering from the worst recession since that time, we can be thankful to have a solvent, successful Social Security program to support America’s Greatest Generation.” Larson reiterated the need to defend the program against plans for privatization. In 2005, Republicans tried to dismantle and privatize Social Security. Recently, Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), the ranking Republican on the Budget Committee, reintroduced the GOP plan calling to eliminate Medicare and privatize Social Security for America’s seniors. “Social Security is a strong cornerstone of our national economy. It is solvent, it is fiscally responsible, and it is necessary for our country. Republicans have been trying to destroy Social Security since its inception. Just imagine what would have happened had Republicans succeeded in turning over Social Security to Wall Street back in 2005,” stated Congressman Larson. “We cannot undermine the financial security of 130,000 Social Security recipients across the First District by dismantling this program.” Congressman Larson added, “We must not follow the Republican agenda of paying for two wars and our recent recession on the backs of our nation’s hard-working seniors. Our seniors have paid into this program for their entire working life, and I will fight to ensure that Congress will not take their money away.” ###
08.03.2010	For Immediate Release: August 3, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-539-4924 LARSON STATEMENT ON THE TRAGEDY AT HARTFORD DISTRIBUTORS Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the tragedy at Hartford Distributors, Inc in Manchester: "First of all, I send my deepest condolences to the Hollander family and the employees of Hartford Distributors affected by today's events. I am fortunate to call Ross Hollander a close, personal friend and over the years, I have gotten to know many of the great employees of the company. I visited the site earlier today to offer my support. This is a day of emotions no person, family, or loved one should have to experience. “The Hollander family and the workers of Hartford Distributors have donated to our local charities and provided their time to bettering our state. I ask that we all be there for them during this critical time. My heart is with the deceased, the Hollander family and all those affected by this morning's tragedy.” ###
07.30.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 30, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CO-SPONSORS LEGISLATION TO PROTECT SENIORS’ SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS Washington, D.C.—Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, applauded the Ways and Means Social Security Subcommittee for introducing The Seniors Protection Act of 2010. The bill, of which Chairman Larson is a co-sponsor, would assist 57 million American seniors, retired and disabled veterans, and disabled individuals with a one-time $250 payment that they deserve in the event that no inflation adjustment is announced this Fall. “Times are too tough right now to risk the financial stability of our nation’s seniors. These Americans have worked hard their entire lives to earn their Social Security benefits. But, the Bush recession cost seniors their increase in benefits last year and is threatening their Cost of Living Adjustment this year. This legislation ensures that seniors will get an additional $250 in the event that no increase in benefits is provided by the Social Security Administration this year,” said Congressman Larson. “Democrats have a long history of standing up for Social Security. We will continue to fight to protect and strengthen Social Security while Republicans are risking our seniors’ livelihoods by threatening to privatize the program and subject it to the whims of Wall Street.” ###
07.28.2010	For Immediate Release: July 28, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON SUPPORTS LEGISLATION TO BOLSTER FEDERAL STALKING LAWS Joins Congresswoman Sanchez and ESPN’s Erin Andrews in Advocating for Bill’s Passage Washington, DC- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined with lead sponsor Congresswoman Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), Erin Andrews of ESPN and victims of stalking all across the nation, to support legislation that will strengthen federal stalking laws and give law enforcement enhanced resources to combat stalking. Last night, The Simplifying the Ambiguous Law, Keeping Everyone Reliably Safe (STALKERS) Act of 2010 passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming bi-partisan support. “Currently, federal stalking laws are outdated and in our digital age, do not address the new forms of stalking,” said Congressman Larson. “This legislation is long overdue; it greatly bolsters our existing laws to address all forms of harassment and provides the necessary protections to victims of these heinous acts.” Congressman Larson also applauded the leadership of his colleague Congresswoman Sanchez and Erin Andrews, a victim of video stalking, for shepherding the passage of this legislation. “I thank my friend, Congresswoman Sanchez for championing this cause and I join strong advocates, like Ms. Andrews, in their fight to ensure that victims are safe and that those individuals who stalk the vulnerable are prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” added Congressman Larson. The STALKERS Act increases the scope of existing laws to cover acts of electronic surveillance, such as spyware, bugging, video surveillance and new technologies as they are developed. In addition, the legislation also: Provides law enforcement the power to prosecute any act of stalking that is “reasonably expected” to cause another person serious distress, Empowers the authorities the right to stop stalkers even if a victim is not fully aware of the danger he or she may be facing, Increases the punishment for stalking offenses in certain special cases, i.e. stalking in violation of a protective order, Requires the Attorney General to annually evaluate federal, state, and local efforts to enforce stalking laws, and to develop best practices in the enforcement of these laws. ###
07.28.2010	For Immediate Release: July 28, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON TO HOST EVENTS WITH NATIONAL ADVOCATES TO CELEBRATE SOCIAL SECURITY & MEDICARE ANNIVERSARIES Former Connecticut 1st District Congresswoman Barbara Kennelly and Judith Stein will join Larson for Telephone Town Hall and Public Forum Hartford, CT- Next week, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host a series of events to commemorate the anniversaries of Medicare and Social Security and reaffirm his support for preserving and strengthening these bedrock programs. Congressman Larson will hold a telephone town hall with Judith Stein of the Center for Medicare Advocacy to highlight and celebrate the 45th anniversary of the enactment of Medicare and a public forum to commemorate the 75th anniversary of Social Security in East Hartford with Barbara B. Kennelly, former Connecticut 1st District Congresswoman and current President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare. These events are part of Congressman Larson’s ongoing efforts to meet with seniors across the region and discuss how he is protecting both programs from the latest Republican plan to cut Medicare benefits and privatize Social Security. Telephone Town Hall on Medicare and Social Security WHO: Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) Judith Stein, Esq Executive Director, Center for Medicare Advocacy WHEN: Sunday, August 1st 5:55pm Constituents- to guarantee participation in the call, you should contact Congressman Larson’s Office at 860-278-8888 by Friday, July 30th at 4pm, with your name, phone number and town of residence. ***Press: If you are interested in listening on the call, please RSVP with Paul Mounds at 860-278-8888 or by email at Paul.Mounds@mail.house.gov *** Social Security 75th Birthday Party and Public Forum WHO: Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) Barbara B. Kennelly, former Connecticut 1st District Congresswoman President of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare WHEN: Wednesday, August 4th 10:00AM-11:00AM WHERE: South End Senior Center 70 Canterbury Street East Hartford, CT NOTE: Visuals for this event will include Congressman Larson, former Congresswoman Kennelly, and local seniors speaking in front of a large birthday cake for Social Security ###
07.26.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 26, 2010 Emily Barocas (Larson) 202-225-7295 DELEGATION ANNOUNCES APPROVAL OF 30-DAY EXTENSION FOR CONNECTICUT TO ASSESS STORM DAMAGE WASHINGTON, D.C. — Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (CT-ID), and Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), John Larson (CT-1), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Chris Murphy (CT-5) and Jim Himes (CT-4) announced today that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has approved the state’s request for a 30-day extension to collect damage reports from the storms that hit Fairfield County last month. This decision comes days after the delegation wrote to FEMA urging them to extend the deadline. Last week, the Delegation urged FEMA to grant the extension writing, "Since the process can take considerable time, especially when determining structural damages, we strongly support the Governor’s request for an extension to August 23, 2010 to file a major disaster declaration request. This additional time will ensure all damage is thoroughly reviewed and appropriately prepared for FEMA’s evaluation." Below is the full text of the letter the delegation sent to FEMA. Dear Administrator Fugate, We write in support of Connecticut Governor M. Jodi Rell’s request for a 30-day extension to file a major disaster declaration request for the June 24 tornado and thunderstorms. As you know, several months ago Connecticut was severely battered by severe storms and flooding, which resulted in the President declaring a major disaster. While the state is still trying to recover from these storms, further severe weather including a tornado hit southwestern Connecticut on June 24, 2010. And most recently, the National Weather Service confirmed that a tornado touched down in four Connecticut towns earlier this week. The state has been working with the affected Fairfield County municipalities, particularly the cities of Bridgeport and Stratford, to compile data on the June 24th damages. The joint FEMA State Preliminary Damage Assessment teams are expected to complete their field inspections and evaluating results this week. Since the process can take considerable time, especially when determining structural damages, we strongly support the Governor’s request for an extension to August 23, 2010 to file a major disaster declaration request. This additional time will ensure all damage is thoroughly reviewed and appropriately prepared for FEMA’s evaluation. We appreciate your consideration and timely attention to this request on behalf of the people of Connecticut. Sincerely, CHRISTOPHER J. DODD JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN ROSA L. DELAURO JOHN B. LARSON JOE COURTNEY CHRISTOPHER S. MURPHY JIM HIMES ###
07.23.2010	For Immediate Release: July 23, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON ANNOUNCES SUPPORT FOR ELIZABETH WARREN TO HEAD NEW CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION BUREAU Washington, DC –Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced his support for Elizabeth Warren to head the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau created by historic Wall Street Reform. Congressman Larson said, “Elizabeth Warren has proven herself to be the model of a common sense advocate for the middle class and average Americans, making her ideally suited to head the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In her role on the TARP oversight board, she has worked tirelessly to rein in abuses by the big banks and Wall Street executives and put the American people first. That is exactly the kind of tenacity we need at the new Consumer Protection Bureau.” ###
07.22.2010	For Immediate Release: July 22, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 COLTSVILLE NATIONAL PARK BILL PASSES MAJOR HURDLE Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that his legislation to create a national park at the historic Coltsville site in Hartford passed a major hurdle today. The legislation, HR 5131, The Coltsville National Historical Park Act, won the approval of the Natural Resources Committee of the House of Representatives. “Today, the Committee on Natural Resources gave their stamp of approval to our plan for creating a national park at Coltsville. This vote brings our dream of a national park there one step closer to reality” said Congressman Larson. “Establishing Coltsville as a National Historical Park will help preserve our unique history for future generations, boost the local economy by creating jobs and attracting more cultural tourism. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their help in this effort and look forward to bringing the legislation to a vote on the floor of the House so we can move ahead with our plans.” Located in the Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood in Hartford, The Coltsville Historic District is a 260-acre site which includes Samuel and Elizabeth Colt’s house “Armsmear”, the Colt armory’s 10 historic industrial buildings, the Church of the Good Shepherd and Parish House, Colt Park, and several other structures associated with the history of the company and the Colt family. ###
07.16.2010	For Immediate Release: July 16th 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: CITY OF HARTFORD & BUSHNELL AWARDED NEA FUNDING TO SUPPORT I-QUILT PROJECT, HARTFORD REDEVELOPMENT Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the City of Hartford and the Bushnell Performing Arts Center will receive federal funding to invest in an innovative initiative to enhance Hartford’s downtown region. The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) awarded $250,000, the largest amount bestowed on any grant recipient, to support the I-Quilt project, an innovative plan to produce a safe, more sustainable community by better incorporating the city’s transit, cultural, and housing resources. “This award is a testament to the great partnership that exists between the federal government, the City of Hartford, the state, and community partners such as the Bushnell. The I-Quilt project is an initiative that will economically and culturally strengthen our capital city for the better,” said Congressman Larson. “Hartford is an unpolished gem, home to numerous cultural assets that can stimulate growth and development throughout the city. I-Quilt will help us leverage our resources to create a more sustainable, vibrant city for our residents and visitors.” The goal of I-Quilt is to connect Hartford’s key cultural sites and institutions as a means to support the cultural and economic redevelopment of the Capitol district. The project will complement the ongoing state, city and private sector efforts to revitalize Hartford’s economy and neighborhoods. Congressman Larson has long supported the I-Quilt initiative and was influential in bringing foremost authorities in sustainable communities, including Congressman Earl Blumenauer of Oregon, Chairman of the House Livable Communities Task Force, and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Deputy Secretary Ron Sims, to Hartford to learn firsthand about the I-Quilt project. “I am proud to have invited national leaders in sustainable communities such as Congressman Blumenauer and Deputy Secretary Sims to Hartford to hear this proposal firsthand. They both praised the project for its vision and ability to solve challenges while capturing the cultural history and commercial future of the city,” added Congressman Larson. “I am a true believer in the efforts of the city, the Bushnell, and all of the private and public partners who support this project.” The NEA awarded the funding as a part of the Mayors’ Institute on City Design 25th Anniversary Initiative, a program that supports projects in communities across the nation focused on planning, design, and arts engagement programs. In total, 21 matching grants were awarded to cities and community groups across the country, amounting to an investment of $3 million on behalf of the NEA. ###
07.15.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 15, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON HAILS SENATE PASSAGE OF WALL STREET REFORM Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, hailed the Senate passage today of Wall Street Reform legislation to rein in Wall Street, end taxpayer bailouts of big banks, and create a consumer financial protection bureau that finally puts consumers first. He said: “Today, Democrats made clear whose side we are on – and it is the side of the American people. We took bold action to stand up to Wall Street Executives and protect the savings and financial security of American families. “And, on the same day Republicans also showed us where they stand. By calling for the repeal of this landmark legislation, they are clearly on the side of the Big Banks that brought our economy to the brink of collapse. These are the same Republicans who want to allow big insurance companies to deny health coverage to people with pre-existing conditions and who are apologizing to BP and Big Oil. The difference between the two parties couldn’t be clearer than it is today. “We saw further evidence of a new day in Washington with the news that Goldman Sachs will pay $550 million to settle fraud charges brought by Obama’s Securities and Exchange Commission. “I want to commend my colleagues in the House and Senate for their work on this legislation that has been called the most sweeping reform of Wall Street in three generations. I particularly congratulate my friend and colleague Senator Chris Dodd for his exemplary work on a bill that will be an important part in his long legacy of standing up for the people of Connecticut.” ###
07.14.2010	For Immediate Release: July 15, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: RECOVERY ACT CREATED OR SAVED 33,000 JOBS IN CONNECTICUT Washington, D.C. – U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the Recovery Act has created or saved over 3 million jobs nationwide, including more than 33,000 jobs in Connecticut. The latest quarterly report from the Council on Economic Advisers also shows that our economy is on track to create an additional 500,000 jobs nationwide by the end of the year. “We already knew that the Recovery Act lowered taxes for 98% of Americans. Now we know it is responsible for creating or saving more jobs than originally thought. My number one priority is keeping jobs in this country and putting Connecticut back to work,” said Congressman Larson. “Eight years of failed economic policies pushed our economy to the brink of disaster, and the Recovery Act is digging us out of Bush’s recession. We still have a long way to go to put more Americans back to work, but we’re clearly moving in the right direction.” These job figures were released this week in the latest quarterly report by the Council on Economic Advisers (CEA). The CEA estimates that the Recovery Act has raised the GDP by 3 percent, and has created economic development and private investment across the country. Congressman Larson also highlighted projects in his district that have created jobs and spurred the local economy thanks to the Recovery Act. Charter Oak Health Center, Inc. in Hartford will create or sustain 360 jobs and expand access to health care services for the city’s underinsured and uninsured residents. A recent report stated that $24 million in Recovery Act funding to community health centers in the Hartford region, will put $40 million back into our local economy. “Community health centers stimulate economic growth, and this funding will create quality jobs and provide essential health services to the uninsured and underinsured residents of the region,” said Congressman Larson. In addition, Joining Technologies of East Granby, a small business specializing in precision welding and laser applications, received over one million dollars in Recovery Act SBA loan funding to create fifteen new highly-skilled technology jobs and support the growth of their emerging business. Congressman Larson added, “I want to see ‘Made in America’ make a comeback. Our nation can and should be a global leader in cutting-edge industries like clean energy and high-tech. The Recovery Act is sparking American innovation, creating jobs immediately and making our local economy stronger for the future.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act cut taxes for 98% of working Americans, offered tax cuts and loans to millions of small businesses, extended unemployment and COBRA health benefits for those looking for work, and started to lay a new foundation for our economy with key investments in high speed rail, clean and efficient energy, high-speed broadband and wireless communications, and electronic medical records. # # #
07.12.2010	For Immediate Release: July 12, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Introduces Lifelong Learning Accounts Act HARTFORD, CT—Today at Capital Community College, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, announced that he will introduce legislation to help workers save money for education and job training through the creation of worker-owned, employer-matched educational accounts. The Lifelong Learning Accounts Act will give our country’s workers the chance to pursue training and educational opportunities and support their personal growth and the economic competitiveness of the United States. Congressman Larson was joined at today’s announcement by Chancellor Marc Herzog of Connecticut Community Colleges System, Amy Sherman of the Council for Adult and Experiential Learning (CAEL), Maura Banta from IBM, and Alice Pritchard from the Campaign for a Working Connecticut “Now more than ever, continuing training and education are invaluable for workers to remain competitive in the job market. The Lifelong Learning Accounts Act recognizes this fact and provides workers with the ability and flexibility to further their education while they work, throughout their careers. By providing an opportunity for workers to participate in these types of employer-matched savings accounts, this bill will provide a significant tool to make it easier for millions of Americans to continue their education,” said Congressman Larson. Lifelong Learning Accounts (LiLAs) can be used to save for a wide range of educational opportunities, including part time education, job training, and apprenticeships. The bill provides several financial incentives to workers and employers to participate. Like a 401(k), employers can choose to match workers’ contributions, and contributions to the accounts will grow tax-free. A total of $2,500 can be contributed to the account during a year, and workers can receive up to a $750 tax credit for making these contributions. In addition, employers have the option of contributing as well and will receive a 25% tax credit on their contributions. The accounts will also be portable and worker-owned, meaning that they will stay with the individual even if they lose their job, switch jobs, or stop working. The Council for Adult and Experiential Learning (CAEL) has been a pioneer in finding ways to give working adults the opportunity to advance. They conducted a successful multi-site LiLA demonstration program and have worked with several states that have adopted pilot programs. “Lifelong Learning Accounts are a win for both employers and employees. In pilot programs across the country, workers are using their LiLAs to pay for everything from industry certificates to graduate level degrees,” stated Amy Sherman, Associate Vice President of CAEL. “We have seen workers who have been promoted, earned more, and moved into hard-to-fill positions in high demand fields, such as healthcare, advanced manufacturing and IT. LiLAs help give workers the means to get the education and training they need to achieve their career goals. Under the leadership of Representative Larson and his colleagues, we are excited to see LiLAs move to the next level.” IBM, a world leader in innovation and technology, is an innovator in employer-matched savings accounts through its Personal Learning Accounts Program. "IBM commends Congressman Larson and his colleagues for introducing the Lifelong Learning Accounts Act," said Stanley S. Litow, IBM Vice President of Corporate Citizenship & Corporate Affairs, and President of IBM's Foundation. "We are strong proponents of this concept. We successfully launched a similar program for IBM employees in 2007. Thousands of IBMers have taken advantage of it, and have viewed it very positively. It's a terrific collaborative effort: We cultivate a more dedicated, diverse, versatile and skilled workforce, while employees broaden their skills and horizons in an affordable way, and become more valuable to the company." The Skills2Compete-Connecticut campaign, led by the Campaign for a Working Connecticut, seeks to raise awareness of the need to train Connecticut residents for middle-skill jobs, which require more than a high school education but less than a four-year degree. Alice Pritchard, Executive Director of Campaign for a Working Connecticut, stated, “If we are to realize Connecticut's full economic potential, access to training that prepares workers for middle skill jobs is imperative. Congressman Larson understands the importance of investing in education and this legislation will make a real difference in the career opportunities of Connecticut's workers and the competitiveness of our businesses.” Congressman Larson added, “As we continue to transition into a knowledge-based economy, the workers of Connecticut and our nation must have the opportunity to further their education in the way they see fit. The global economy is moving too fast, and it will be to our own detriment if we do not provide an opportunity for workers to further their education and properly save to finance the costs.” ###
06.30.2010	For Immediate Release: June 30, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON CALLS ON GATES, PENTAGON TO CONSIDER WTO RULING AGAINST EADS IN TANKER DECISION Washington, DC- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson joined fellow Members of Congress in calling on the Pentagon to take into account today’s ruling by the World Trade Organization confirming that EADS received billions in illegal government subsidies from the European Union when awarding the $35 Billion KC-X Tanker contract. EADS is currently competing against Boeing/Pratt &Whitney to build the next fleet of air tankers for military. The letter (as seen below) addressed to Secretary Gates asks that he “quickly take steps to neutralize such unfair competitive advantage, in order that the tanker competition can proceed and a contract can be awarded without delays.” Congressman Larson released the following statement: “When it comes to trade and competition, all American workers want is a fair shot and more importantly, a level playing field. That’s what the workers from Pratt & Whitney ask for and that’s what I work hard every day to guarantee. Today’s WTO ruling confirms what I and the workers across Connecticut have known for quite some time. They aren’t on a level playing field with their foreign competitors; they’re extremely disadvantaged by illegal, unfair subsidies.” “I call on the Pentagon to take the WTO’s ruling into serious consideration when it comes to considering the Air Tanker Competition. We build the best tankers, powered by engines made by Connecticut workers, here in America, without unfair subsides. These American-made tankers are the best value for taxpayers and our men and women in the military.” “The Pentagon must now move expeditiously to end this long odyssey. It’s time for them to make a proper and fair decision on the tanker on behalf of our workers and our military. “ -------------------------------------------------- June 30, 2010 The Honorable Robert M. Gates Secretary Department of Defense The Pentagon, Room 3E880 Washington, DC 20301 - 1000 Dear Secretary Gates: We have written in the past to express our profound disappointment at the failure of the Air Force to consider the multibillion dollar illegal launch aid subsidies given to EADS by the European Union. These subsidies caused serious and ongoing distortion in the global market for large aircraft, causing substantial harm to the American aerospace industry. We are concerned that illegal subsidies will distort the KC-X competition unless action is taken by the Air Force to create a level playing field by acknowledging the existence of these subsidies and taking steps to nullify the advantage they have given EADS. Giving appropriate and due consideration to these bid distorting subsidies in determining whom to award the contract will ensure a fair, open and transparent competition. Our concern is shared by an overwhelming majority of the House of Representatives. On May 27th, the House passed by a vote of 410 to 8 an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act requiring that the Department of Defense consider any unfair competitive advantage an offeror may possess in the KC-X aerial refueling tanker competition. With the vote taken on May 27th, the House of Representatives said that the KC-X contract has to be fair. A contract awarded without consideration of Airbus’ illegal subsidies would be deeply flawed. We ask that you quickly begin the process of ascertaining the extent to which the illegal subsidies have given EADS an unfair competitive advantage. We also ask that you quickly take steps to neutralize such unfair competitive advantage, in order that the tanker competition can proceed and a contract can be awarded without delays. We look forward to working with you. Very truly yours, ###
06.30.2010	For Immediate Release: June 30, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON STATEMENT ON PASSAGE OF WALL STREET REFORM Washington, DC- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act passed the House by a vote of 237 to 192. “This vote shows the American people whose side their Members of Congress are on. A vote in favor of this legislation is a vote for the American consumer, investor and taxpayer. A vote against continues the policies that led to the financial calamity and cost millions of Americans their homes and their jobs. This bill should have passed by a larger margin, but we know Washington Republicans prefer to protect reckless big banks and Wall Street. “I’m on the side of the everyday consumer. This legislation ensures bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable and ends the risky financial practices that led to the financial meltdown. “The American people demanded reforms to restore accountability and responsibility in the financial markets and end the notion of ‘too big to fail’. They wanted the assurance that their financial strength and their ability to provide for their families will not be jeopardized by the unethical practices and irresponsible actions that created our economic crisis. “Today, I am proud to say, we listened to the American people and passed legislation that protects Main Street and reins in Wall Street." ###
06.29.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Paul Mounds (Larson) Phone: (860) 278-8888 Connecticut House Delegation Call for Investigation into Anthem’s Exorbitant Insurance Rate Hikes Call follows revelations that Anthem has used incorrect data and assumptions to justify rate increases WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Joe Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Chris Murphy and Jim Himes sent a letter to Connecticut Insurance Commissioner Thomas Sullivan today calling on his office to investigate exorbitant insurance rate increases requested by Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield (Anthem). Anthem recently withdrew its request for a 39-percent rate increase for plans it operates in California after that state’s regulators cited incorrect data and assumptions used and made by Anthem to justify its proposed rate increase. Anthem made similar requests in Connecticut, and although the largest requests were rejected, increases of as much as 20 percent were approved. The letter requests that Sullivan’s office conduct an independent audit of Anthem’s request to ensure consumer fairness and protection. Such an audit was also recommended by Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius. [A copy of the Members’ letter to Commissioner Sullivan is below.] “At this point, Anthem has an established record of using incorrect data in attempting to impose exorbitant rate increases in California,” said Congressman Courtney. “They tried to impose similar increases in Connecticut, and although their most blatant attempts were quashed, their entire methodology is suspect, and necessitates investigation.” "I join with my colleagues to urge an independent review of Anthem's rate increases, and to ensure that Connecticut residents are not subject to the same unfair accounting that California was,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “The landmark health reform law we passed will force health insurance companies to compete, increasing the likelihood that consumers will be able to avoid unjustified rate increases -- but in the meantime, we must act to prevent insurance companies like Anthem from taking advantage of our residents. It is essential that this review is conducted to determine if Anthem's rate increases were fairly presented." “We must protect Connecticut consumers from unjustified rate increases and provide them with quality, affordable health care coverage,” said Congressman John B. Larson. “The Affordable Care Act was passed to shield families, small businesses, and individuals from these egregious practices. I hope Commissioner Sullivan, in accordance with Secretary Sebelius’ request, reviews Anthem’s approved rate increase to ensure our citizens are not unfairly burdened.” “We have certainly learned through the health reform process that private health insurance companies have been overcharging their customers for years,” said Congressman Murphy. “We owe it to people to do everything we can to make sure that Connecticut customers are paying a fair, not inflated, rate for health insurance coverage.” “For years insurance companies have been charging their customers too much and covering too little in return,” said Himes. “We need a fair and complete investigation into Anthem’s recent premium increases so we can crack down on any unscrupulous activity or attempts to justify unfair rate increases.” -------------------- The Honorable Thomas Sullivan, Commissioner Connecticut Department of Insurance 153 Market Street Hartford, Connecticut 06103 Dear Commissioner Sullivan, As you are no doubt aware, Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield (Anthem) in California recently withdrew its request for an astonishing 39 percent rate increase for plans it operates in the individual health insurance market after California regulators rejected the proposal. In rejecting the proposal, California’s regulators cited incorrect data and assumptions used and made by Anthem to justify the proposed rate increase. Last summer, Anthem made a similar request to your office, asking that in some instances, rates be increased by as much as 32 percent on plans in the individual market. While your office did not approve Anthem’s most outlandish rate requests, you did approve rate increases of as much as 20 percent for these Anthem plans. Last month, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, sent all states a letter urging them to review any rate increases they may have approved at the request of Anthem. In light of the information out of California, that incorrect data and assumptions were used and made by Anthem to justify their rate increases, we respectfully request that you follow the advice of the Secretary and review your August 2009 decision granting, what we believe to be exorbitant rate increases for Connecticut residents forced to buy their insurance in the non-competitive individual insurance market. We would further request that you follow the recommendations outlined by the Attorney General, Richard Blumenthal, and Connecticut State Healthcare Advocate, Kevin Lembo, to pursue an independent audit of Anthem’s premium rate increase, at Anthem’s expense. Like the independent audit in California, an independent audit of Anthem’s premium increase in Connecticut will provide critical oversight of potentially faulty data, including double counting of risk factors, used to calculate the premium increases that took effect for thousands of individuals in Connecticut this year. More importantly, an independent audit will ensure consumer fairness. Considering the depth of impact of Anthem’s premium increases, which affected thousands of individuals and families in Connecticut, an independent audit is the right course action to uphold consumer protection. In 2014, when the health insurance marketplaces (Exchanges) begin to operate, forcing health insurance companies to compete for the business of individuals and small businesses, consumers will have a better chance of avoiding unjustified rate increases imposed by their health insurance company. In the meantime, it is imperative that you use all the tools at your disposal to prevent health insurance companies from increasing rates at an unjustifiable clip. Of additional note, new Health Insurance Premium Review Grants will be available this year to strengthen state consumer protection operations. We are aware that the state is in the process of applying for these grants and we would further offer our assistance with the application process so that consumers in Connecticut will be better protected from exorbitant insurance rate increases. Thank you for your consideration of this request and your attention to this matter. We know that you share our concern for Connecticut residents who are facing the crushing burden of unjustified rate increases. ###
06.28.2010	For Immediate Release: June 28, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Calls for “Urgent Action” To Address Safety of Pipe Cleaning Procedure Testifies at Congressional Proceeding On Kleen Energy Explosion Middletown, CT- Today at the Middletown City Hall, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson submitted testimony to the House Education and Labor Workforce Protections Subcommittee during proceedings regarding the Kleen Energy Systems power plant explosion. On February 7th, an explosion at the Kleen Energy Systems natural gas power plant in Middletown killed five workers and injured dozens. It has been determined that the explosion was caused by a pipe cleaning procedure called “gas blow”, a process that has caused deadly explosions at facilities across the nation. Larson requested regulatory changes to prohibit the practice. In his testimony, Congressman Larson stated, “Despite these repeated occurrences, there has not been a clear solution established to address these safety gaps once and for all. It is clear that urgent action needs to be taken” In response to the explosion, Congressman Larson joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro and Congressman Joe Courtney in requesting that the committee hold a hearing to investigate the explosion and to determine whether Congressional action is needed to ensure that another incident of this nature does not occur in the future. Congressman Larson added, “While we can never undo the tragic events, we can honor the memory of the fallen by guaranteeing that we have the regulations and standards in place to ensure that every worker is protected.” Below is Congressman Larson’s testimony as prepared for delivery: “I would first like to thank the Education and Labor Workforce Protections Subcommittee for holding this proceeding and my colleagues from the Congressional delegation for being in attendance. “The tragedy that occurred here in Middletown, CT was felt across the nation. However, the hardest hit, were those families who lost their loved ones on that terrible day in February. “I want to especially acknowledge the courage of Jodi Thomas for being here today to testify. Your act of bravery in being here to not only talk about your wonderful husband, Ron, but to discuss ways to prevent this type of accident from ever occurring again is truly remarkable and admirable. “I also understand that the family of Raymond Dobratz is in attendance. I would like to express my deepest condolences to you and my appreciation for your courage to be here for this important hearing. “To all of the victims and families who were either killed or injured in the explosion, I offer my sincere regrets and sympathy. “I would also like to thank the other members of the panel from Connecticut for being here, including Chief Badamo, Mayor Giuliano, and Judge Nevas, as well as John Bresland from the Chemical Safety Board and Dr. Glenn Corbett. “In the aftermath of all that took place we learned that there were fundamental problems and gaps in regulation that directly led to this disaster. As the testimony from our witnesses will reveal, no agency was tasked with regulating the “gas blow” procedure that has been determined to be the cause of the explosion. “In addition, there are no specific codes or regulations that would have applied to the process of cleaning natural gas piping at the Kleen Energy Power Plant. Even more concerning is that similar explosions have occurred across the country in the past several years, including in North Carolina in 2009. Despite these repeated occurrences there has not been a clear solution established to address these safety gaps once and for all. “While we await the findings of the OSHA investigation that is scheduled to be completed by the end of July, it is clear that urgent action needs to be taken. The Chemical Safety Board has made recommendations for additional regulatory action by OSHA, a change in the National Fuel Gas Code, and further legislative action by the State of Connecticut. “I look forward to working with the subcommittee, my colleagues from the Connecticut delegation, and the regulatory agencies to make sure that this type of disaster never occurs again. “While we can never undo the tragic events of February, we can honor the memory of the fallen by guaranteeing that we have the regulations and standards in place to ensure that every worker is protected. “I look forward to hearing the testimony and recommendations made here today and thank you all once again for attending today’s critically important hearing.” ###
06.22.2010	Contact: Paul Mounds-860-278-8888 Larson to Host Sustainable Communities Forum with Special Guest Congressman Blumenauer of Oregon Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host an open forum to promote livable communities with special guest U.S. Congressman Earl Blumenauer of Oregon, Chairman of the House Livable Communities Task Force, Monday morning at the Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts. Larson and Blumenauer will be joined by federal, state, and local stakeholders to discuss Hartford’s One City, One Plan/I-Quilt Proposal, an innovative plan to produce a vibrant, safer, more sustainable community by better incorporating the city’s transit, cultural, and housing resources. Congressman Blumenauer is nationally recognized as an advocate for livable communities, places where people are safe, healthy and economically secure. In addition to serving as Chair of the House Livable Communities Task Force, Congressman Blumenauer is founder of the Committee for a Livable Future. To RSVP, please contact Congressman Larson’s office at 860-278-8888. WHAT: Forum on Sustainable Communities and Hartford’s One City, One Plan/I-Quilt Proposal WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) U.S. Congressman Earl Blumenauer, Chairman of House Livable Communities Task Force WHEN: Monday, June 28th 2010 Registration: 8:00AM-8:30AM Event: 8:30AM-9:30AM WHERE: Bushnell Center for Performing Arts 166 Capitol Avenue Hartford, CT ###
06.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 21, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON COMMENDS STATE MEDICAID EXPANSION Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) commended the Department of Health and Human Services’ announcement that Connecticut will be the first state in the nation to expand Medicaid coverage to more low-income adults as part of our historic health care reform. Congressman Larson said, “I am so proud to have worked with state officials to ensure that Connecticut is taking a lead in making reforms to keep our community healthy and productive. The health care reform legislation we passed will provide all Americans with the choice of quality, affordable care. With this expanded Medicaid coverage more low income Americans can get the preventive care they need in a cost-effective way.” This will expand Medicaid coverage to 45,000 adults currently in the Connecticut SAGA program and save the state millions of dollars. “This is just one of many benefits health care reform will bring to Connecticut,” said Congressman Larson. “In the three months since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law seniors have begun to receive checks lowering their prescription drug costs, young adults have been allowed to stay on their parents insurance longer – rather than adding to the ranks of the uninsured, and insurance companies have ended their practice of rescissions, dropping people from coverage when they get sick. We are keeping insurance companies accountable and putting middle class Americans in charge of their health care decisions.” The Affordable Care Act allows states, beginning now, to provide Medicaid coverage to low income adults ###
06.17.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 17, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson's Staff to Hold Office Hours in Granby HARTFORD, CT - The office of Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will be holding District Office Hours at the Granby Public Library on Monday, June 21st from 10:00AM to 12:00PM. A representative from Congressman Larson’s office will be available during this time to meet with constituents who have questions or concerns related to federal government programs and agencies. Please contact Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 if you have any questions. Who- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s District Office Staff When- Monday, June 21st from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM Where- Granby Public Library 15 North Granby Road
06.16.2010	For Immediate Release: June 16, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Commends VA for Easier and Faster Claims Process for Veterans Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson applauded the efforts of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki to streamline the processing of veteran’s claims. As part of these efforts, the VA has shortened application forms, reduced paperwork and introduced a new program to decrease the overall processing time to ensure veterans receive faster claims decisions. “The men and women that served our country with honor and distinction should not be forced to idly wait to receive benefits from their service due to red tape,” said Congressman Larson. “When I visited the Hartford Vet Center, veteran after veteran expressed to me that they wanted a simplified system in the VA that worked. I applaud Secretary Shinseki and the Obama Administration for making the quality of care and responsiveness to the concerns of our veterans a foremost priority.” The VA’s has shortened application forms to reduce paperwork for veterans are being made available on VA’s Web site at www.va.gov/vaforms, includes: •A shortened VA Form 21-526 for Veterans applying for the first-time to VA for disability compensation or pension benefits. This form has been cut from 23 pages to 10 pages. •VA Form 21-526b for Veterans seeking increased benefits for conditions already determined by VA to be service-connected. This new form clearly describes the information needed to support claims for increased benefits. To process claims faster, the VA has introduced two new forms for Veterans participating in the Department’s new fully developed claim (FDC) program. These forms will ensure that the VA receives all of the available evidence when a claim is submitted, creating a system that will allow for the remaining steps in the claims-decision process to be efficient and expedited. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson visited the Hartford Vet Center to speak with veterans about his efforts on their behalf and how his office can be of assistance to them. During the roundtable meeting, Congressman Larson spoke about how he assisted a Vietnam veteran from Rocky Hill receive his VA health benefits. The veteran’s diagnosis of multiple myeloma was directly related to Agent Orange exposure in Vietnam. After receiving a notice that his claim would take six months to be processed, the veteran contacted Congressman Larson who intervened and was able to have the veteran’s claim processed in less than a month. Since 2000, there has been a 75 percent increase in veterans’ claims to the VA. Congressman Larson’s office can be reached at 860-278-8888 to answer questions about the VA claims and benefits process. ###
06.11.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 11, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 ***PRESS RELEASE*** Larson's Staff to Hold Office Hours in Portland HARTFORD, CT - The office of Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will be holding District Office Hours at the Portland Town Hall on Tuesday, June 15thfrom 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. A representative from Congressman Larson’s office will be available during this time to meet with constituents who have questions or concerns related to federal government programs and agencies. Please contact Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 if you have any questions. Who- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s District Office Staff When- Tuesday, June 15th, 2010 from 10:00 AM to 12:00 PM. Where- Portland Town Hall Town Clerk’s Office 33 East Main Street Portland, CT 06480 ###
06.11.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 11, 2010 CONTACT: Chris Barnes/202-821-5909 LARSON: ARLINGTON MISMANAGEMENT MUST BE CORRECTED, INVESTIGATED IMMEDIATELY Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to the disclosure of mismanagement at Arlington National Cemetery. “Revelations of mismanagement at Arlington are distressing and heart breaking to all Americans, particularly to the families of service members who have sacrificed so much for their country. The heroes of the past must be treated with the respect and honor they deserve.” “The issues identified by the Army Inspector General must be corrected immediately. I have requested a briefing and ongoing updates from Secretary McHugh and stand ready to pursue any and all legislative remedies necessary to ensure that the hallowed grounds of Arlington are properly administered. I will be introducing a resolution expressing the sense of the Congress on this unfortunate situation.” “Whether it is health care for Veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan or the internment of fallen heroes at Arlington, we have an enduring responsibility to honor these brave men and women properly. ###
06.10.2010	For Immediate Release: June 10, 2010 Contact: Chris Barnes/202-821-5909 LARSON TESTIFIES IN SUPPORT OF LEGISLATION TO DESIGNATE COLTSVILLE AS A NATIONAL PARK Washington, DC- Today in testimony during a House Subcommittee hearing, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) urged for the passage of his legislation to designate the Coltsville Historic District in Hartford as a National Park. Before the Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands, Congressman Larson spoke in favor of his legislation, HR 5131, The Coltsville National Historical Park Act. Congressman Larson was joined by Hartford Courant Columnist Tom Condon who echoed support for Larson’s legislation and highlighted the involvement of the community to make this dream for Coltsville a reality. During his testimony, Congressman Larson emphasized the national historical significance of Colt’s Patent Firearms and the legacies of Sam and Elizabeth Colt as well as the economic impact the National Park designation will have for Connecticut. He also detailed how the legislation is specifically designed to address the National Park Service’s concerns over the project’s feasibility by requiring the city, state and the developer to meet certain criteria before final designation as a National Park. Congressman Larson said, “Establishing Coltsville as a National Historical Park will not only preserve our unique history for future generations, but it will also boost the local economy by creating jobs and attracting more cultural tourism to the region. According to the United Arts, a Greater Hartford Arts Council Campaign, over 5 million people visit the cultural attractions in Greater Hartford each year, supporting 7,400 full-time jobs and generating an annual economic impact of $244 million. Adding Coltsville National Historical Park to the list of attractions would obviously have a great positive impact on the region.” In addition to his oral testimony, Congressman Larson submitted to the subcommittee letters from various non-profits, elected officials and city organizations, including two letters signed by over 70 property owners from the Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood, in support of his legislation. Located in the Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood in Hartford, The Coltsville Historic District is a 260-acre site which includes Samuel and Elizabeth Colt’s house “Armsmear”, the Colt armory’s 10 historic industrial buildings, the Church of the Good Shepherd and Parish House, Colt Park, and several other structures associated with the history of the company and the Colt family. Below are Congressman Larson’s remarks as prepared for delivery: “Thank you, Chairman Grijalva, Ranking Member Bishop and members of the Committee for holding this hearing today. “The Coltsville National Historical Park Act is the result of over a decade of hard work and commitment by the communities in Hartford, Connecticut. The passage of this legislation is the realization of the vision to see Coltsville transformed into an organized cultural and educational experience for the state, region and the nation. “In 2008, Coltsville was designated a National Historic Landmark District and passage of this bill is the next step. It gives the Secretary of the Interior authority to establish the Coltsville as a National Historical Park. “In the 1800’s Samuel Colt and his wife Elizabeth founded Colt’s Patent Fire Arms Manufacturing Company known as Colt Fire Arms Company. Coltsville flourished during the Industrial Revolution spurring innovation not only in the production of firearms, but also with the development of technology that led to changes in the American way of life. Coltsville set the standard of excellence during the Industrial Revolution and continues to be significant as a place where Americans learn the importance of that period in history. “Samuel Colt is most renowned for developing a revolver design, which revolutionized personal firearms by eliminating the need to reload until five or six shots had been expended. His company drew upon the technological innovations of the firearms industry in New England to achieve a high level of mechanization and production. The Colt Fire Arms Company was a highly influential national source of innovation in precision manufacturing and firearms design well into the 21st century. “During every war since World War I, the Colt Fire Arms Company has acted as the nation’s leading small arms producers and made a vital contribution to the US war effort. Even today, tens of thousands of our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq are using M4 rifles produced by Colt. “It is important to emphasize that the Colt legacy is not just about firearms, but also about his role in creating a unique industrial community life. Samuel Colt became the first individual in the United States to open a manufacturing plant overseas. He also created a unique sense of community around the industry, planning Coltsville as a fully integrated industrial district that includes manufacturing facilities, Victorian mansions, an open green area, botanical gardens, and even a deer park. He built housing for the workers, a church, and even a local bar. “When you think about the industrial revolution and where it all began, Colt manufacturing was at the heart of it. Henry Ford came here to study the practices of manufacturing and the jet engine pioneers Francis Pratt and Amos Whitney served as apprentices. Samuel Colt also worked with Samuel Morse in the development of the telegraph. “Also of note are the contributions of Elizabeth Colt, who, after her husband’s death, owned and operated the factory for another 39 years. She was a leading philanthropist and art patron in Hartford and developed many of the structures in Coltsville. “The National Park Service will testify today that the Coltsville Historic District meets the agency’s criteria for national significance and suitability to become a unit of the national park system. They will also testify that it does not meet the feasibility requirements at this time. While I understand their concerns, I believe the legislation is written to address them. “The bill is written so that the Interior Secretary may only establish a National Historical Park once certain conditions are met. Those conditions include the donation of at least 10,000 square feet in the East Armory to be used for a Colt museum and the donation of the land within the proposed Park boundaries. The bill gives the Secretary authority to enter into written cooperative agreements with the various land owners living in Coltsville as well as with various museums in order to acquire different artifacts for display in the Colt museum. “I am confident that these conditions will be met. From the beginning, this project has been a true partnership between federal, state and local government as well with universities and non profits. The communities and stakeholders affected by this bill helped frame the idea and are committed to making this park a reality. The fundamental economic demand for this rejuvenation of downtown Hartford is there. The apartments are always 90 to 95% full and the major tenants, which include Lexis Nexis and the state funded Capitol Region Education Council, aren’t going anywhere soon. “The East Armory will be available to the National Park Service soon, in fact, as we sit here today; the historic tax credit investor is in final negotiations with the current failed lender and will then be in control of the mortgage and East Armory. “The bill is supported by not only the entire Connecticut delegation, but also the Governor of Connecticut, the Mayor of Hartford and the residents and property owners within Coltsville who are fully prepared to enter cooperative agreements with the Secretary of the Interior. “I would like to submit these letters for the record in addition to a dozen more letters of support from organizations like the Metro Harford Alliance, Trinity College and Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation. “Establishing Coltsville as a National Historical Park will not only preserve our unique history for future generations, but it will also boost the local economy by creating jobs and attracting more cultural tourism to the region. According to the United Arts, a Greater Hartford Arts Council Campaign, over 5 million people visit the cultural attractions in Greater Hartford each year, supporting 7,400 full-time jobs and generating an annual economic impact of $244 million. Adding Coltsville National Historical Park to the list of attractions would obviously have a great positive impact on the region. “During this hearing, you will hear from Connecticut’s esteemed Hartford Courant editor, Tom Condon, who will discuss in further detail Coltsville and the incredible community involvement. The Hartford Courant has been a leading advocate of the Park since the inception of the idea and Tom will be able to provide great insight. “I urge you to support this legislation and help the people of Hartford and Connecticut see the fruits of their labor become a reality, one that our whole country can enjoy.” ###
06.08.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 8, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: FAIR ELECTIONS CORRECTS MISTAKES LEARNED ON STATE LEVEL Supreme Court Decision Does Not Impact Fair Elections Legislation Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s order today blocking the release of matching funds to candidates for office in Arizona who have opted into their Clean Elections program. “As I’ve said before, the states are the laboratories of democracy in this country, the testing ground for new and innovative ways to improve our nation. Arizona, like a few other states around the country, has faced legal challenges to provisions of their clean elections legislation. We’ve known about these challenges and corrected for them in the Fair Elections Now Act, legislation that will take the corrosive hunt for big money out of our national elections. I will continue to fight to enact the Fair Elections Act because I believe it is the best way to restore the public’s trust in our government, and bring about the real change the American people want.” ###
06.08.2010	For Immediate Release: June 8, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Calls For Passage of Toxic Metals Legislation In Light of Recall of Millions of “Shrek” Glasses For Children Washington, DC- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) urged Congress to pass legislation that will protect our children from products with dangerous toxins, after the recall of 12 million cadmium-tainted drinking glasses that were marketed to children. Congressman Larson is a co-sponsor of legislation introduced by Congresswoman Jackie Speier of California, H.R. 4428-The Children’s Toxic Metals Act, which will prohibit the manufacture, sale or distribution of children’s jewelry that contains cadmium and other toxic metals. On Friday, June 4th, under the advice of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CSPC), the McDonald’s Corporation voluntarily recalled 12 million drinking glasses produced for the “Shrek Forever After” movie. The CSPC conducted tests on the glasses, at the request of Congresswoman Speier, and detected dangerous levels of the cadmium. Congressman Larson said, “As a parent, it is incredibly important to me that products marketed to children are safe for them to use. Time and again, we have seen a lapse in oversight of children’s products place the health and well-being of our children in danger. I applaud my colleague, Congresswoman Speier and the CPSC for their swift efforts to protect our children from the dangers of cadmium. I will continue to fight for stronger standards and safeguards to keep our children safe.” Ranked seventh on The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s list of hazardous substances, cadmium can cause long term adverse respiratory and gastrointestinal effects in children, including kidney and liver damage. ###
06.08.2010	For Immediate Release: June 8, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 Larson Slams Goldman Sachs For Not Cooperating with Inquiry Commission Washington, D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after Phil Angelides, Chair of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission said that Goldman Sachs was not cooperating with their inquiry. “America deserves answers and it deserves them now. Goldman Sachs needs to account for its role in the financial crisis and stop playing games with the Inquiry Commission. Complete and forthright disclosure and thorough answers to the Commission’s questions must be forthcoming or the Congress must intervene to ensure cooperation.” ###
05.28.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 28, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: I WANT ‘MADE IN AMERICA’ TO MAKE A COMEBACK Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the House passed the American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, legislation to create jobs, close loopholes that give corporations a tax break to send American jobs overseas, and help Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. “I want to see ‘Made in America’ make a comeback. My number one priority is keeping jobs in this country and putting hard-working Americans back to work. I want American factories to start humming again and American workers to see the rewards of a hard day’s work. While Republicans are sitting back trying to wait out this recession, I know we need to work our way out. The American Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act will help keep American jobs here in America and hold Big Business accountable. “This bill puts middle class families and small businesses first, and helps ensure that Wall Street billionaires pay the same tax rate on their income that you pay on yours. “For too long big businesses have exploited tax loopholes and profited by shipping jobs overseas at the expense of working Americans. This legislation closes those loopholes, keeping jobs on our shores, proving once again to the middle class whose side we’re on.” ###
05.28.2010	For Immediate Release: May 26, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson to Host Federal Resource Event for Small Businesses Hartford, CT- Tuesday, June 1st on the campus of Manchester Community College, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host a Small Business Federal Resources Seminar. This event is designed to provide information on Federal and other resources available to small businesses. In addition, small business owners will learn how to take advantage of beneficial new tax credits in the health insurance reform law. The U.S. Dept of Commerce, U.S. Small Business Administration, Internal Revenue Service, U.S. Department of Labor, and the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture as well as state and local agencies will provide an overview of the services they offer to small businesses. This event will be a good opportunity for small business owners to network and acquire the resources to help grow and sustain their business. Space is limited, RSVP by contacting Congressman Larson’s District office at 860-278-8888. What:Small Business Federal Resources Seminar Who:U.S. Congressman John B. Larson U.S. Dept. of Commerce U.S. Small Business Administration Internal Revenue Service U.S. Dept. of Labor U.S. Dept. of Agriculture State and Local Agencies When: Tuesday June 1, 2010 Registration: 8:00AM – 8:30AM Seminar: 8:30AM – 10:30AM Where: Manchester Community College SBM Charitable Foundation Auditorium Great Path Rd. Manchester, CT ###
05.27.2010	LARSON SPEAKS ON FLOOR AGAINST F-35 EXTRA ENGINE Stands with President, Sec Gates and Military in opposing wasteful program Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) made the following statement on the floor in support of the Pingree Amendment to strip funding for the wasteful and unnecessary F-35 Extra Engine Program from the Defense Authorization Act. (As prepared for delivery.) “All across America families are tightening their belts - making-do with less. They expect the same from Congress. Imagine their utter frustration when they hear Congress is pushing forward an unwanted and unnecessary $3 billion program. “Only in Washington, DC could a company that lost the competition in the private sector, and already controls 88% of the military engine market, come seeking a government-directed subsidy and call that competition. I guess competition in this town means buying two of everything with taxpayers’ money. “The Marines, the Navy, and the Air Force have all said they don’t want it. They don’t need it. The President has called this program an example of the ‘unnecessary defense programs that do nothing to keep us safe.’ Why are we moving ahead with it? “If we can’t cut spending here, where can we cut it? If we don’t make tough choices to rein in wasteful spending now, when will we make them? “This is about whose side you’re on. Are you on the side of excessive spending? Or, are you on the side of saving taxpayer money and supporting our troops?” ###
05.26.2010	For Immediate Release: May 26, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860-539-4924 Sec. Gates to Congressman Larson-JSF Extra Engine “Simply Makes No Sense” Sec. Gates: “I firmly believe that the interests of the taxpayers, our military, and the JSF program are best served by not pursuing an extra engine.” Washington, DC.- Secretary of Defense Robert Gates reiterated his position against the F-35 extra engine program, calling it wasteful and unneeded in a letter to Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01). He wrote that he will advise President Obama to veto any legislation containing further funding to the program. (Click here to read Secretary Gates Letter to Congressman Larson) Secretary Gates wrote the following in his letter to Congressman Larson: “I firmly believe that the interests of the taxpayers, our military, and the JSF program are best served by not pursuing an extra engine. Despite the continued opposition by the DoD (Department of Defense) under two Administrations, Congress has provided $1.3 billion in unrequested additional funding for continued development of this program. We have reached a critical point in this debate where spending more money on an extra engine simply makes no sense and diverts limited modernization funds from more pressing DOD priorities. “Given the many pressing needs facing our military and the fiscal challenges facing our country, we cannot afford a business as usual approach to the defense budget. Tough choices must be made -by both the department and Congress -to ensure that current and future military capabilities can be sustained over time. This means programs and initiatives of marginal or no benefit -like the F136 engine -are unaffordable luxuries. “Accordingly, as I have stated repeatedly, I will strongly recommend that the President veto any legislation that contains funding for an extra JSF an unneeded engine.” The letter by Secretary Gates is in response to a letter written by Congressman Larson on May 21st 2010. In his letter, Congressman Larson asked that Secretary Gates provide his position on issues concerning the extra engine program, including whether to continue funding the program . (Click here to read Larson’s Letter to Sec. Gates) Congressman Larson stated, “President Obama, Secretary Gates, and I are all of like minds when it comes to this issue. This letter proves that Secretary Gates is committed to ending this misguided program. In a time in which we are facing two wars and a budget deficit, we must make tough choices to reduce the waste in our spending. The Department of Defense has fully vetted the information, and has determined that the extra engine program is a prime example of wasteful spending that will not serve the best interests of our military or taxpayers. I am proud to call Secretary Gates a partner in this fight.” Congressman Larson is leading the fight to end the F-35 extra engine. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on the Department of Defense authorization bill on Thursday. ###
05.20.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 20, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON: GATES, OBAMA AND I OF LIKE MIND ON EXTRA ENGINE PROGRAM Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), commended Defense Secretary Robert Gates, today, for his strong comments in opposition to the F-35 Extra Engine Program. Larson said, “Secretary Gates, President Obama and I are standing together on ending the Extra Engine Program. At a time when we are facing two wars and a budget deficit, we must make tough choices to reduce the waste in our defense spending and redirect those funds where our troops need them most. The Extra Engine Program has been labeled a waste of billions of dollars that puts thousands of American jobs at risk. It is about time we end this misguided program.” In a briefing today, Secretary Gates said, “The Bush administration opposed this engine. The Obama administration opposes it…We have recommended for several years now against funding this engine, considering it a waste of money. And to argue that we should add another $3 billion in what we regard as waste to protect the $1.5 billion that we believe already has been wasted, frankly, I don't track the logic.” Gates continued, “As I've said before, only in Washington does a proposal where everybody wins get considered a competition, where everybody is guaranteed a piece of the action at the end. Yes, we're in favor of competition, but my idea of competition is winner takes all, and we don't have that kind of a situation here.” Congressman Larson and other members of Congress on both sides of aisle will be exploring ways to remove the funding for the alternate engine from the Defense Authorization legislation and redirect those funds to more critical investments. See Larson’s previous statement on the Extra Engine Program at: https://bit.ly/cEp4nu ###
05.19.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 19, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CALLS ON CONGRESS TO END WASTEFUL EXTRA ENGINE PROGRAM Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, spoke out against the Extra Engine Program for the Joint Strike Fighter, a program that wastes taxpayer dollars, costs American jobs and diverts needed resources away from our troops when they need them most. “The extra engine program is exactly the sort of wasteful government spending that people across the country are so angry about. Ending it would save money and save at least 5,000 American jobs. It is time we stand with our military and American manufacturing base and put an end to this wasteful spending. We’re fighting two wars and facing a looming budget deficit and every taxpayer dollar we spend is precious. Instead of wasting money on a program that the White House and Defense Department have both labeled as unnecessary and wasteful, we should be putting it towards the equipment our men and women in uniform really need to keep us safe,” said Larson. General Electric and their UK-based partner Rolls Royce are hoping to continue developing their multi-billion dollar extra engine for the Joint Strike Fighter – leading to job creation in the UK that has already been touted in the English press at the expense of at least 5,000 jobs here in America. Defense Secretary Robert Gates has come out strongly against the extra engine program, saying, “We have reached a critical point in this debate where spending more money on a second engine for the JSF is unnecessary, wasteful, and simply diverts precious modernization funds from other more pressing priorities.” The White House has threatened to veto the legislation that authorizes the military if the extra engine program is included. President Obama and this Congress have worked hard to reduce the waste, fraud and abuse in government spending and this program is a perfect example of the sort of wasteful spending that Washington needs to eliminate. This past August, President Obama said, “Every dollar wasted in our defense budget is a dollar we can’t spend to care for our troops, or protect America or prepare for the future. If a project doesn’t support our troops, if it does not make America safer, we will not fund it.” Congressman Larson echoed that sentiment, saying, “A vote against the extra engine program is an excellent opportunity for us to show the American people whose side we’re on. Are we on the side of protecting taxpayer dollars and ensuring they are spent wisely and carefully, or are we on the side of padding the profits of big corporations – particularly foreign corporations? I’m on the side of the American taxpayer. The President, Secretary Gates and I are of one mind on this and I intend to work with them to end this wasteful program.” ###
05.14.2010	For Immediate Release: May 14, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 Larson: Hartford Hospital and UCONN Secured NIH Research Funding Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that both Hartford Hospital and the University of Connecticut will receive over $11 million in federal funding to construct in-state research facilities that will spur economic development and help foster scientific advances to improve the health of our families and seniors. “Connecticut is home to our nation’s premier research and development institutions. This funding to Hartford Hospital and UConn will encourage advancement in science, create highly skilled jobs, and keep our state and our nation at the cutting edge of innovation,” said Congressman Larson. “With emerging countries increasing their commitment to research and development in their schools, hospitals, and small businesses, it is imperative that we increase our investments in order to remain as the world leader in scientific research and development.” The funding was provided by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health’s National Center for Research Resources. These funds are part of an agenda led by Congressman Larson and President Obama to create and maintain American jobs in emerging scientific industries and create a long-term foundation for economic growth. In all, over $100 billion federal funding will be invested to encourage innovation and scientific development. Hartford Hospital $3,271,573 For construction of a facility that will be devoted to translational research in disease areas including autism and Alzheimer's disease. University of Connecticut $7,937,037 To construct and renovate facilities that will aid more than 100 researchers studying a range of topics including cardiovascular biology. ###
05.03.2010	For Immediate Release: May 3, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson, Small Business Development Center Announce Free Business Counseling for Hartford North End Business Owners Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and the Small Business Development Center (SBDC) announced today that free business counseling will be available for Hartford’s North End small business owners. This counseling is in direct response to concerns expressed at a public meeting with Congressman Larson by business owners in Hartford’s North End earlier this year. Small business owners will be able to meet with a counselor from the SBDC to receive management and technical assistance that will help strengthen the sustainability and overall performance of their business. The program is offered in partnership with the Greater Hartford African American Alliance, ACA Foods, and funding support is provided in part by Bank of America. "I hosted the small business meeting with a goal of working toward providing real solutions to concerns of local business owners. The need for business guidance and technical assistance was one of the most urgent needs I heard them speak about," said Congressman Larson. "This partnership solves that problem and will help these community businesses grow and prosper." Earlier this year, Congressman Larson hosted a Small Business Summit at the Rajun Cajun Restaurant in Hartford with Jeanne Hulit, New England Administrator of the U.S. Small Business Administration, and representatives from local financial and lending institutions. In the months following the meeting, Congressman Larson’s office worked closely with the SBDC and community partners to create an opportunity to provide one-on-one counseling services to business owners of Hartford’s North End. Congressman Larson added, "In working with the Small Business Development Center and great partners, like the Greater Hartford African American Alliance and Yvon Alexandre of ACA Foods, we were able to provide an opportunity for North Hartford business owners to receive sound advice and helpful resources that will help strengthen their businesses." The Small Business Development Center is a collaborative with the U.S. Small Business Administration, the Connecticut State University System, and public and private partners throughout Connecticut. "Small business is the key to the nation’s economic recovery, and that is especially true here in Connecticut. With more than 80% of Connecticut’s businesses defined as small, this partnership is critical. The Small Business Development Center’s collaboration with key partners will provide much needed one-on-one counseling and technical assistance to the business community of Hartford’s North End. Congressman Larson and the SBDC offer a potent partnership for business development," remarked CCSU President Jack Miller. "I attended this public meeting; I heard the business owners loud and clear. This initiative responds to their immediate needs." stated Ginne-Rae Clay, State Director of the SBDC. SBDC’s business counselors are available to meet with business owners on Thursdays by appointment only at the Office of the Caribbean Trade Council in the ACA Foods Plaza on 3155 Main Street in Hartford. To set up an appointment, business owners should contact the Small Business Development Center at 860-832-0650. ###
04.30.2010	For Immediate Release: April 30, 2010 Contact:Paul Mounds (Larson): 860-278-8888 Dodd, Lieberman, Larson Announce Legislation to Designate Coltsville as a National Park Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), U.S. Senators Christopher Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) announced that they have introduced legislation to designate Coltsville as a National Park. Establishing a national park at Coltsville will boost the local economy by creating jobs and increasing tourism in Hartford and the region. Outside of Colt’s East Armory and underneath Colt’s symbolic blue dome, Congressman Larson and Senator Lieberman held a press conference to officially announce the new legislation. “The people of Connecticut know the rich history of Coltsville and the significant contributions the Colt family made to our state and nation,” said Senator Dodd. “That story should be shared with all Americans and enjoyed by future generations. That is why I am committed to working with Congressman Larson, who is leading this effort in the House of Representatives, and Senator Lieberman to fulfill our shared goal of establishing Coltsville as a National Historic Park.” Senator Lieberman said, “I am committed to doing all that I can to advance Coltsville’s status as a National Historical Park because I believe that in honoring Coltsville we honor a vital era in American history in which our nation emerged as the world’s leader in innovation and technology. This historic district is an American treasure that will inspire us and many generations to come.” “I am proud to announce we are closing in on our goal of establishing Coltsville as a National Park and honoring the legacies of Colt Firearms and the Colt Family. Through the leadership of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, Colt Firearms spurred the Industrial Revolution and influenced many of our nation’s great leaders,” said Congressman Larson. “This legislation is a testament to the many years of hard work and dedication from the numerous federal, state, and local organizations committed to the project. It’s been a long, but fulfilling journey to get to this moment. However, we have much work left to do to truly make this vision for Coltsville a reality. “ The Coltsville Historic District is a 260-acre site which includes Samuel and Elizabeth Colt’s house “Armsmear”, the Colt armory’s 10 historic industrial buildings, the Church of the Good Shepherd and Parish House, Colt Park, and several other structures associated with the history of the company and the Colt family. The manufacturing innovations that were achieved at Colt spawned some of the most successful businesses in the nation including Pratt & Whitney and the Ford Motor Company. The first American company to have offices abroad, Colt established the United States as a world leader in business. In 2003, Dodd, Lieberman, and Larson successfully passed the Coltsville Study Act into law, requiring the National Park Service to make recommendations about adding Coltsville to the National Park system. Overall, the study concluded that Coltsville has “national significance” and was “suitable for inclusion in the National Park System”. In 2008, the National Park Service designated Coltsville as a National Historic Landmark. The “Coltsville National Historical Park Act” states the following: The Secretary of the Interior the authority shall establish the Coltsville Historic District in Hartford as a National Historical Park. The City of Hartford and individual property owners within the Coltsville Historic District donate the land to the National Park Service in order to establish the Coltsville National Historical Park and all that makes a Park a rewarding visitor’s experience, from a visitor’s station to an area for artifacts and historical collections to be displayed. The National Park Service will provide matching grants to property owners in the Coltsville Historic District to help restore and maintain these important historic properties for future generations. The Coltsville National Historical Park Advisory Commission, consisting of 11 members of the local community, will work with the National Park Service to develop and implement a management plan for the Park. The Advisory Commission will ensure that the ideas, interests and concerns of the local community are heard. Click here for the full bill text of the “Coltsville National Historical Park Act”. ###
04.30.2010	For Immediate Release: April 29, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 Larson Meets with East Hartford Fire Chief, Highlights Recovery Act Funding for New Fire Department Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson welcomed Chief John Oates of the East Hartford Fire Department to Washington, DC. Last year, Congressman Larson was influential in securing almost $3.5 million in Recovery Act funding for the fire department to support the construction of a new fire station. Local fire chiefs and administrators from Connecticut joined Chief Oates in his meeting with Congressman Larson. “It was a pleasure speaking with Chief Oates today. I wanted to personally to thank him and the men and women of the fire department for their unfaltering service on behalf of the families and communities in East Hartford,” said Congressman Larson. “I was honored to support the Department’s application for funding to support the new fire department as it will immediately create jobs and support the overall safety of the town and its residents in the long term.” Congressman Larson supported the town’s grant application with a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), pointing out that the project met all of the requirements of an ideal Recovery Act Program. Vice President Biden visited East Hartford to officially announce funding for the project in December 2009. The plan to build a new fire department was in the works for more than five years and the town expects to begin construction in the spring. ###
04.29.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 29, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON COMMENDS COLLEAGUES FOR WORK ON DISCLOSE ACT Calls for swift action on that and Fair Elections legislation Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the introduction of legislation to reduce the influence of corporate dollars on political campaigns. “I commend my colleagues Chris Van Hollen, Bob Brady, Mike Castle and Walter Jones for working in a bipartisan way to tackle an issue of bipartisan concern. “The Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case will unleash a wave of corporate influence on our politics. This is a not a Republican problem or a Democratic problem, it is an American problem. We have already seen the impact of corporate money on our political system. Insurance companies spent $1.4 million each day lobbying against historic health reform. Now, big Wall Street banks have called up the same team to lobby against reform that will hold the bankers, not the American people, responsible for their mistakes. “The DISCLOSE Act my colleagues introduced today, will inject much-needed transparency and accountability into our elections. “If we are going to bring about the change the American people voted for, we first need to bring change to the way Washington does business. That’s why I’ve introduced the Fair Elections Now Act, as a compliment to the DISCLOSE Act. This legislation would take the hunt for big money out of our elections and put the American people back into the driver’s seat of political campaigns. It would energize the sort of small donor, grassroots campaigns that made Barack Obama so successful as a candidate. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to see both of these important pieces of legislation come to the floor for a vote.” ###
04.25.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Paul Mounds (Larson) 860-278-8888 LARSON, CONNECTICUT DELEGATION APPLAUDS DISASTER DECLARATION WASHINGTON—Senators Chris Dodd, Joe Lieberman and the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation applauded President Barack Obama’s decision to sign a major disaster declaration for Connecticut. Federal aid will now be available to supplement local and state recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe storms last month. “Cities and towns in the counties of Fairfield, Middlesex, and New London are facing extraordinary recovery costs after these devastating storms,” said Dodd. “This assistance will significantly ease the burden these towns face as they continue their recovery efforts. It is my hope that the President will also include Governor Rell’s request for individual assistance, which will help the residents of these counties whose property has been damaged or destroyed by these storms.” Lieberman said: “Clean up of damage from last month’s severe storms and flooding is beyond the capability of Connecticut’s state and local governments, especially in these tough economic times. I am pleased the federal government has stepped in to help Connecticut communities so we can complete the cleanup, protect public safety, and get Connecticut businesses back on their feet. However, individual assistance for residents is critical and I urge FEMA and the President to approve such aid. Rep. Rosa DeLauro said: “I am very pleased that President Obama has granted federal assistance to our state in the wake of last month’s devastating storms. These essential funds will help Connecticut’s communities recover and move forward, and will especially aid our courageous first responders. Local officials, fire departments, and police departments all performed critical roles in helping our citizens, and I commend them for their hard work and dedication. I also hope to see Individual Assistance approved soon as well to help individual residents, including in New Haven County. I look forward to continuing to work to ensure the residents of our state receive the help they need to recover.” Rep. John Larson said: “This declaration will provide immediate relief to the cities and towns in the three counties recovering from the storms that hit our state weeks ago. However, residents of these counties homes and properties were damaged or destroyed by the storm and I hope the President will approve the state’s request to assist these individuals.” Rep. Chris Murphy said: “Communities affected by the devastating flooding last month can breathe a sign of relief today as we learn that federal help is on the way. With limited budgets on the local level, these dollars will assist towns as they continue to clean up and recover from these storms.” “This declaration is welcome news for eastern Connecticut,” said Rep. Joe Courtney. “The eagerly awaited assistance provided by this decision will help our local officials with their efforts to rebuild and recover from last month’s storms. I thank President Obama for supporting our request, as well as FEMA Administrator Fugate, whom I spoke to yesterday, for his assistance in moving this process forward. I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my colleagues in the Connecticut delegation to advocate for additional help to individuals and households hard hit by the storm.” “The impact of the winter storms could have crippled our state just as we have begun to recover from the economic storm,” said Rep. Jim Himes. “This funding will help keep up on track, and I applaud the president for approving this much-needed assistance.” Earlier this month the Connecticut Congressional delegation sent a letter to President Obama urging him to provide federal assistance to Connecticut’s cities, towns, businesses, and residents affected by the severe weather. -30-
04.22.2010	For Immediate Release: April 21, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson: House Passes Resolution to Honor UConn Women for Seventh NCAA Title Win Washington, DC-Today, the UConn Huskies Women’s Basketball Team was honored by the House of Representatives for winning the 2010 National Collegiate Athletic Association Division I Women’s Basketball Tournament. With their victory over the Stanford Cardinals, the UConn women won their seventh championship and extended their winning streak to 78 games, the longest in women’s basketball history. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined the Connecticut Congressional Delegation in co-sponsoring the resolution honoring this season’s achievements. He released the following statement on the resolution: “I am proud to join the Connecticut Congressional Delegation, my colleagues in the House of Representatives, and Husky Nation in celebrating the UConn Women Basketball team’s seventh NCAA women's national basketball championship, second perfect season in a row and record 78-game winning streak.” “Connecticut is home to one of the most accomplished and successful teams in the history of collegiate athletics. Under the leadership of Coach Auriemma, the Women Huskies have captured the hearts of fans all across the nation, with their exemplary work on and off the court. In every game, the team played with a passion and desire only displayed by champions.” “I look forward to joining President Obama in welcoming the Women Huskies back to Washington D.C. and the White House later this year. I hear the President has been practicing his jump shot, but I am confident the Huskies are ready for their re-match with him in the game of H.O.R.S.E.” Click here to read House Resolution 1239 - Commending the University of Connecticut Huskies for their historic win in the 2010 NCAA Division I Women's Basketball Tournament ###
04.20.2010	For Immediate Release: April 20, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 Larson Statement in Support of Equal Pay Day Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in honor of Equal Pay Day. “Today, on Equal Pay Day, I stand with every American worker who has been the victim of pay discrimination. All Americans are working harder than ever to make ends meet. As we continue to rebuild our economy and get middle class Americans back to work, we need to guarantee that equal work means equal pay and reaffirm our value of a fair reward for a hard day’s work. “That’s why one of the first bills passed by this Congress and signed into law by President Obama was the Lilly Ledbetter Act. That law gives workers who have been the victim of wage discrimination a fair chance to recoup lost back pay. “Unfortunately, wage discrimination still exists. Women are too-often short-changed - receiving 80 cents compared to the dollar men are paid for the same work. I encourage the Senate to take up and pass the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation passed by the House that will make it harder for employers to discriminate against female employees.” ###
04.15.2010	For Immediate Release: April 15, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson Releases Fact Sheet on Puerto Rico Birth Certificate Policy Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) made available on his website a fact sheet in English and Spanish to help Connecticut residents born in Puerto Rico obtain a new birth certificate. (Fact sheet can found at www.Larson.House.Gov or by clicking here) In December 2009, the Government of Puerto Rico, in coordination with the United States Government addressed the high number of cases of fraud and identity theft using Puerto Rico-issued birth certificates, by calling for the issuing of new birth certificates to individuals born in Puerto Rico. Congressman Larson said, “I truly understand the frustration expressed by the Puerto Rican community concerning the new birth certificate policy. I want to assure residents of the Hartford region born in Puerto Rico that my office stands ready to answer their questions.” The Government of Puerto Rico suggests individuals who will need a birth certificate for official purposes, for example to obtain a U.S. Passport or a driver’s license, submit an application to the Puerto Rico Vital Statistics Record Office on or after July 1st. All other individuals interested in obtaining a new birth certificate for their personal records, are encouraged to submit their application at later date. According to the Department of State, approximately 40 percent of the cases of passport fraud processed by the Office of Diplomatic Security Services involved the birth certificates of people born in Puerto Rico. ###
04.15.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 14, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 T. BOONE PICKENS TOUTS LARSON NATURAL GAS BILL BEFORE WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE Washington, DC – Today, former oilman and businessman T. Boone Pickens voiced his strong support for Congressman John B. Larson’s (CT-01) NAT GAS Act (H.R. 1835) that will put thousands of American workers at the forefront of a uniquely American clean energy economy, boost the production of domestic energy, and help break our addiction to foreign oil. Congressman Larson, the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said, “This legislation is about protecting America’s national and economic security. Right now, like drug-users paying a dealer, we are exporting dollars overseas to feed our addiction to foreign oil. As a result, our economy and the safety of our citizens are subject to the whims of foreign, and often unfriendly, governments. By boosting our use of natural gas we are creating hundreds of thousands of American jobs building trucks, heavy equipment and infrastructure. We are also tapping into American energy resources, safe from foreign interference, to fuel cars and trucks for decades to come.” In his testimony before the House Ways and Means Committee, Pickens stressed the importance of weaning the U.S. off of foreign oil and increasing domestic energy production. He said (from prepared testimony), “Natural gas is an excellent example of how we can create green jobs – not just as a public works effort – but as a commercially viable, long-term enterprise which will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, add permanent high-paying jobs to the American roster and which will allow the United States to claim its rightful place in doing the right thing to improve the global environment.” The legislation would increase the use of natural gas in heavy duty vehicles by providing tax credits and incentives to people who buy them. It will create 600,000 American jobs and spur investment in the American energy industry. ###
04.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE April 13, 2010 CONTACT:Paul Mounds (Larson) 860-278-8888 CONNECTICUT’S CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION URGES PRESIDENT OBAMA TO ASSIST COMMUNITIES AFFECTED BY RECENT SEVERE WEATHER WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), and the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation sent a letter to President Barack Obama this week urging him to provide federal assistance to Connecticut’s cities, towns, businesses, and residents affected by recent severe weather. The delegation letter supports Governor M. Jodi Rell’s recently-submitted request for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to declare a major disaster for Connecticut as a result of the severe rainfall and hurricane force winds that hit Fairfield County and Southeastern Connecticut during an 18-day period last month. If the President declares a major disaster for Connecticut, it will activate a number of federal programs that will assist in the recovery efforts of individuals and local governments. The delegation stated in their letter, “Connecticut has been hard hit by the economic downturn—a situation that has been compounded by the recent storms. FEMA has verified that the State and municipal costs associated with this storm would exceed $10 million and that the severity of damage and the impact on families, businesses and towns in Connecticut are sizable. Connecticut is in desperate need of federal assistance for the response and recovery efforts that will only become available with the declaration of a major disaster. Therefore, we strongly support the Governor’s request for federal assistance and urge you to make this declaration.” Full text of the letter below: April 12, 2010 The President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write in support of requests submitted by Connecticut Governor M. Jodi Rell on April 9 and April 12, 2010 asking that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declare a major disaster for the State of Connecticut as a result of severe wind and flooding that occurred over an 18 day period, from March 12 through March 30, 2010, particularly in the counties of Fairfield and New London. According to National Weather Service data, the three consecutive rainfall episodes in March were the result of the same two large scale weather systems resulting in record breaking rainfalls. First, Connecticut experienced heavy rainfall and documented hurricane force wind gusts from March 12, 2010, through March 15, 2010. Many areas of the state received between four and five inches of rainfall in a 24-hour period and winds that gusted up to 75 miles per hour. An example of the damage can be measured in Greenwich, Fairfield County, where 400 of 700 roads were impassable due to a combination of fallen trees and downed power lines. Shortly after, on March 23, heavy rainfall of 1.5 to 3.2 inches hit Connecticut, well before the state could recover from the first rainfall. This additional rain exacerbated conditions in most of the state that was already experiencing saturated soil and swollen waterways. Between March 29 and March 30, Connecticut was battered with historically heavy rainfall, with four to ten inches falling during a 36-hour period. Southeastern Connecticut, in particular New London County, was seriously impacted by the storm. Rivers and streams reached historic levels, with indications at eight different locations of water ways reaching the 500 year flood level. Communities like Stonington, New London County experienced excessive damage by dangerous flood conditions. Much of the Route 184 in Stonington was simply washed away by rushing waters. Connecticut has been hard hit by the economic downturn—a situation that has been compounded by the recent storms. FEMA has verified that the State and municipal costs associated with this storm would exceed $10 million and that the severity of damage and the impact on families, businesses and towns in Connecticut are sizable. Connecticut is in desperate need of federal assistance for the response and recovery efforts that will only become available with the declaration of a major disaster. Therefore, we strongly support the Governor’s request for federal assistance and urge you to make this declaration. We appreciate your consideration and timely attention to this request on behalf of the people of Connecticut. Sincerely, Christopher J. Dodd Joseph I. Lieberman Rosa L. DeLauro John B. Larson Joe Courtney Christopher S. Murphy Jim Himes ###
04.13.2010	For Immediate Release: April 12, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Census Bureau to Call Households, Larson Urges Residents to be Aware of Identity Theft Scams Hartford, CT- Yesterday, the U.S. Census Bureau announced it will be contacting some households who have responded to the 2010 Census to clarify some answers about the number of people living at the given address. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) is asking residents to be alert as a number of scam artists are attempting to use the 2010 Census to commit identity theft. “Providing information to the Census Bureau is safe and confidential. However, please be aware of potential scam artists, and remember that Census workers will not ask you for your social security number, your citizenship status, or personal financial information,” said Congressman Larson. “Phone calls by the Census Bureau are strictly made to clarify answers previously provided by a household to a Census taker in person or on census forms.” Congressman Larson reminded residents that the U.S. Census Bureau will not ask individuals for the following information over the phone or in person: 1) Citizenship Status 2) Social Security Number, bank account number, or credit card information 3) Solicit for donations or contact you by email In addition, Congressman Larson provided information on the protocol the U.S Census Bureau will abide by when calling a household to verify answers on the 2010 Census form (below). •The caller will identify themselves as working for the U.S. Census Bureau. •After confirming they have reached the correct household, the caller will provide the household an approval number from the Office of Management and Budget and its expiration date (12/31/2010). This number allows the Census Bureau to conduct this survey and requires the household's participation. The interview will take approximately 10 minutes. •If the interviewer calls and nobody answers the phone, he or she will leave a message requesting the household to return the call. In addition, a specific case identification number will be provided so the household can call back and complete the interview. •If a household would like to confirm they have been contacted by the Census Bureau, they may call one of the numbers below and use the eight-digit case identification number they were provided to complete the interview. English: 1-866-851-2010 Spanish: 1-866-859-2010 By law, the Census Bureau cannot share respondents' individually identifiable answers with anyone, including other federal agencies or law enforcement entities. For more information and questions concerning the 2010 Census, please contact Congressman Larson’s office at 860-278-8888. ###
04.07.2010	For Immediate Release: April 5, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: East Hartford Student Wins Congressional Arts Competition Winner’s Art to be displayed at the U.S. Capitol Hartford, CT- On Thursday, April 1st, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted the 29th Annual Congressional Arts Competition at the Wadsworth Atheneum. High school students from the Greater Hartford area competed to have their art work displayed at the U.S. Capitol and to receive a $6,000 scholarship to the Savannah College of Art and Design. Congressman Larson is proud to announce the winner of the competition is Julia Steele, a sophomore at East Hartford High School. Her work is an interpretive self-portrait drawn in colored pencil. The judges of this year’s competition were John Nordyke and Christine Dalenta, both of whom are Assistant Professors at the University of Hartford Art School. “I would like to say congratulations to all of the students who participated in this year’s Congressional Arts Competition. I am always impressed and in awe of the artistic abilities possessed by the students in the region,” said Congressman Larson. “Julia is truly a gifted and talented artist. Her self-portrait was praised by the judges, staff at the Wadsworth and attendees at the competition for its attention to detail, use of colors, and imagery. Through her work, you can see Julia’s love and devotion to art, and I am pleased it will be shared with the visitors to our nation’s Capitol.” In addition to having her art work displayed at the U.S. Capitol, Julia will receive two airline tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend the opening ceremony of this year’s exhibit. The Congressional Arts Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. Julia Steele of East Hartford, interpretive self-portrait ###
03.30.2010	For Immediate Release: March 30, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: CONNECTICUT RECEIVES $5.95 MILLION TO RENOVATE VETERANS HOME Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki in announcing that the State of Connecticut will receive $5.95 million dollars to renovate the State Veterans Home in Rocky Hill. “This is great news for Connecticut's veterans,” said Congressman Larson. “This funding will ensure that veterans, especially those who are aging and experiencing health issues, are provided with important continuum of health care services. Having fought so hard to increase veterans funding, I am very proud Secretary Shinseki and the VA have awarded this grant to upgrade the Rocky Hill facility. It will greatly benefit our veterans now and in the future.” The federal funding for the State Veterans Home will represent 65% of the anticipated cost of renovating the 340-bed domiciliary facility. In 2006, Congressman Larson was influential in securing a $21.9 million dollar federal grant for the construction of the Sgt. John Levitow Veterans’ Health Center. Located on State Veterans Home campus, the 125-bed health residential health center offers long term care to Connecticut veterans with chronic and debilitating medical conditions. ###
03.22.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 22, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON HAILS PASSAGE OF HISTORIC HEALTH CARE BILL Washington, DC—Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the passage of health reform legislation. “Today, this Congress accomplished something that was almost 100 years in the making. When the President signs this legislation into law, the American people will see clearly whose side this Democratic Caucus is on. We are standing up to health insurance company abuses and decades of discrimination and mistreatment. We have lowered the cost of health insurance. We have lowered the budget deficit. And, we have improved the quality of health care for all Americans. “I am so proud to be part of this historic moment along the lines of the passage of Social Security and Medicare.” ###
03.18.2010	For Immediate Release: March 18, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: HEALTH CARE REFORM WILL REDUCE THE DEFICIT BY $1.3 TRILLION Washington, DC- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the health reform legislation coming to the floor of the House will be one of the largest deficit-reducing measures members of Congress will ever vote on. A new report by The Congressional Budget Office on health care reform finds that the health care legislation proposed by Democrats will create a $118 billion reduction in the federal deficit over the next 10 years, and cut the deficit by $1.3 trillion over twenty years. The legislation also expands health insurance to 32 million Americans, including 462,000 individuals in Connecticut’s 1st Congressional District, and improves health benefits for everyone. “This bill represents the largest reduction to the federal deficit in our nation’s history. It is fully paid for and will reduce our deficit by 1.3 trillion over the next twenty years,” said Congressman Larson. “This bill is about putting the American people – not the government or insurance companies – in control of their health care. We are expanding health care coverage to 95% of Americans and improving care for everyone while we decrease our national debt, restore our economy and create jobs in Connecticut and across the nation.” This legislation will make health care more affordable for everyone. It will hold insurance companies accountable by stopping their worst practices such as denying you coverage because of a pre-existing condition, dropping your coverage when you get sick, or arbitrarily hiking up your premiums. The legislation will also rein in health care costs– cutting waste and fraud and compensating doctors for value of care, not volume. Small businesses will receive tax credits to make it easier for them to provide coverage for their workers – so they don’t have to choose between providing health care and hiring new employees. Middle class families will get tax credits to make their health care costs affordable – so they never have to worry about going bankrupt because of an illness, and seniors will see their prescription drug costs go down. Congressman Larson added, “Health care decisions should not be made by the government or the insurance companies – they should be made by you, your family, and your doctor. This bill puts you in charge of your health care while placing our economy on sound fiscal footing for the future.” ###
03.18.2010	For Immediate Release: March 18, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON: PRATT & WHITNEY WILL REMAIN IN CONNECTICUT Washington, DC-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) was assured by Pratt & Whitney officials of their commitment to remain at the company’s Connecticut locations, including East Hartford and Middletown. Congressman Larson sought a meeting with Pratt & Whitney President David Hess to discuss the company’s future in the state. “I am pleased to hear Pratt & Whitney are committed to staying in East Hartford and Middletown. As the son of a former Pratt employee and as a lifelong resident of East Hartford, I understand the company’s importance to our state’s economy,” said Congressman Larson. “I will continue to work with President Hess, Pratt & Whitney, and United Technologies to ensure that highly-skilled jobs remain in the state.” ###
03.17.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 17, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON AMENDMENT TO CLARIFY BUILD AMERICA BONDS PASSES COMMITTEE Provides State Funding Option to Repair Faulty Connecticut River Levees Washington, DC – Today, the House Ways and Means Committee voted on and passed an amendment to a major jobs bill proposed by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01). The amendment will expand the Build America Bond Program, which states around the country have used to fund public works projects, to include levee and flood control projects. This legislation is expected to be voted on and passed on the floor of the House next week. Congressman Larson said, “It is vital that communities around the First District have the resources they need to protect our neighbors’ homes and businesses from flood damage. We know that many of the levees and flood control systems in our area are subpar. This legislation would lay out an alternative way for the State to fund the projects that will repair and improve our levee systems and keep our communities safe.” Build America Bonds have already been used by the State of Connecticut, and the cities of Bridgeport, Stamford and New London, to finance sewer, highway, and transit improvements. ###
03.17.2010	For Immediate Release: March 17, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON RELEASES DETAILS OF HEALTH REFORM BENEFITS TO CONN.’S 1ST DISTRICT Hartford, CT -- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the benefits health insurance reform will bring to this community. The plan will put Americans and small businesses back in charge of their health care choices. It will make coverage more affordable for everyone, hold insurance companies accountable and stop their worst practices – denying you coverage because of a pre-existing condition, dropping your coverage when you get sick, or arbitrarily hiking up your premiums. Passage of health care reform legislation will improve health care coverage for over 462,000 residents and 7,200 residents with pre-existing conditions will be able to obtain health insurance in Congressman Larson’s district, all while reducing the federal deficit. “I know where I stand on this issue, and it’s with the people of Connecticut and my district. We need to act on this legislation because so much is at stake for the small businesses and families of this community. I am on the side of my neighbors who are facing rising premium costs and discrimination because of a pre-existing condition,” said Congressman Larson. “I will not stand idle as families in my district are filing for bankruptcy because of their rising health care bills or watch as seniors are unable to pay for their prescription drugs. The time to act is now.” In Congressman Larson’s District, the health care reform bill would: Improve coverage for 462,000 residents with health insurance. Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 138,000 families and 15,700 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 118,000 beneficiaries, including closing the donut hole. Extend coverage to 16,500 uninsured residents. Guarantee that 7,200 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Protect 700 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Allow 50,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents’ insurance plans. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $23 million annually. Click here for a fact sheet on how health reform benefits Connecticut’s 1st District. ###
03.17.2010	Bipartisan Business Tax Relief Introduced in House Reps. Peters, Reichert, Larson, and Tiberi Introduce Bill to Allow Companies to Use Accrued Tax Credits Now to Create 235,000 Jobs Washington, D.C. – A bipartisan group of legislators today introduced the American Job Creation and Investment Act to provide business tax relief estimated to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. The bill, introduced by Representatives Gary Peters (D-MI), John Larson (D-CT), David Reichert (R-WA) and Patrick Tiberi (R-OH), would allow companies to use existing Alternative Minimum Tax credits they now hold but otherwise must save for future years to be used this year for job creation, retention or capital investments. The bill is estimated to directly create over 65,000 new jobs and help businesses retain 170,000 jobs in 2010 and 2011, plus spur $40 billion in additional job creating investment. A wide array of industry associations endorse the bill, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, Associated Builders and Contractors Association and the Association for Manufacturing Technology. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, said, “This bill will make it easier for companies around the country to speed up hiring and put more Americans back to work. Businesses are the engine of job creation in this country. When we make it easier for them to hire and invest in their business, we are helping to revitalize our economy for the long term. This bill will help every sector of our economy including, manufacturers, energy companies, auto companies and high tech. I commend my colleague Gary Peters, a member of the Democratic Caucus Jobs Task Force, for his creative bi-partisan approach to finding solutions to the unemployment crisis.” A full summary of the American Job Creation and Investment Act follows. The American Job Creation and Investment Act Outline of Proposal This proposal would allow struggling companies that do not benefit from similarly-designed incentives to use existing alternative minimum tax (AMT) credits for future years this year instead to create jobs and invest in their businesses. Corporate AMT – Current tax law requires corporations to compute their tax liabilities under the regular income tax and corporate AMT and pay whichever is greater. Though it adheres to many of the rules of the regular tax, the corporate AMT applies a lower and fixed statutory rate to a broader definition of taxable income and a less generous set of deductions. AMT Credit Explanation - Differences in the timing of certain deductions, especially for depreciation allowances, account for a significant amount of the increase in tax liability under the corporate AMT. Firms paying the corporate AMT are granted a credit for those payments, which may be used only to offset future regular taxes at a time of positive tax liability. Companies with unused AMT credits essentially are making interest-free loans to the federal government, to be repaid only when the company has sufficient regular income tax liability in the future. Currently, the economic benefit of AMT credits is denied at precisely the time companies are in greatest financial need Creation of jobs and new investment – This would help companies create new jobs and invest in new manufacturing facilities and equipment. For 2010 and 2011, companies would be able to utilize their existing AMT credits up to: (1) 20% of new employee wages capped at $20,000 per employee per year and (2) 20% of new investments in manufacturing facilities and equipment purchased or placed into service in 2010 and 2011. Retention of jobs – A company would also be allowed to utilize existing AMT credits to help retain jobs in the U.S. AMT credit utilization would be capped at 10% of the companies’ domestic wages and based on their 2009 U.S. employment not to exceed $10,000 per employee. Rapid utilization – This program would apply only for 2010 and 2011, to encourage rapid utilization. To further accelerate the economic impact of allowing companies to utilize their AMT credits, the proposal would allow for an expedited refund process similar to current laws for net operating losses. Job Creation and New Investment Estimates Over 65,000 new jobs created in 2010 and 2011 Over 170,000 retained jobs in 2010 and 2011 Over $40 billion in new investment in 2010 and 2011, which will have a substantial multiplier effect, creating significant numbers of additional jobs Broad Industry Support This proposal helps multiple sectors of the economy including: manufacturers, airlines, energy companies, auto companies and suppliers, and high tech. The companies and industry groups that support this proposal include: U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), The Association For Manufacturing Technology (AMT), the Motor & Equipment Manufacturers Association (MEMA), and the Associated Builders and Contractors Association. ###
03.17.2010	For Immediate Release: March 16, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: We Are Closer to Reforming our Nation’s Health Insurance System Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that House Democrats are closer than ever to reforming our nation’s broken health insurance system with a plan that puts Americans back in control of their health care choices, holds insurance companies accountable, and makes coverage more affordable. Connecticut will see immediate benefits as soon as the legislation goes into effect. Individuals who are uninsured because of a pre-existing condition will be able to buy affordable coverage through a temporary high-risk pool while banning insurers from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. In addition, insurance companies will be prohibited from dropping people when they get sick and seniors’ costs for prescription drugs will go down. “This bill gives Connecticut residents more choices and brings down their health care costs,” said Rep. Larson. “As soon as it’s enacted, small businesses, seniors, young people, and those who have been discriminated against by insurance companies will see immediate relief.” Once the bill is enacted it will: -Prohibit insurance companies from dropping your coverage when you get sick. -Ban insurance companies from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions. -Require new private plans to cover preventative services and immunizations with no co-payments. -Provide a tax credit of up to 35% of premiums to small businesses that provide health coverage to their employees. -Extend coverage to young people, allowing them to remain on their parents’ insurance policy until their 26th birthday. -Create a temporary high-risk pool to insure those who are currently uninsured because of a cancer, diabetes or any other pre-existing condition. -Protect consumers by ensuring they have access to an effective internal and external appeals process to appeal insurance plan decisions. -Eliminate lifetime limits and restrictive annual limits on benefits in all plans. -Increase funding for new training programs to train more primary care doctors, nurses, and public health professionals and for community health centers – allowing them to almost double the amount of patients they treat over the next five years. For seniors in Connecticut, the legislation will provide immediate relief by: -Providing a $250 rebate for Medicare beneficiaries who hit the “donut hole.” -Making preventative services and immunizations free under Medicare right away – eliminating co-payments for preventative services and exempting preventative services from deductibles. -Expanding home and community care so seniors can live longer in their homes not at a nursing home. “I’ve traveled around this district and spoken to residents that know firsthand how important reforming the health insurance system is to this nation. I think about Kristen Martinez from Colebrook, who at the age of 31 was diagnosed with stage 4 Metastatic Breast Cancer and fears she will be dropped by her insurance company. And the seniors I met at the Windsor Senior Center, who talked about the rising costs of prescription drugs and the need to close the Medicare Part D “donut hole”. They cannot wait any longer for action and I stand with them,” said Rep. Larson. “By enacting health care reform right away, we will be able to lower costs for everyone, providing the seniors like the ones I met in Windsor, and citizens like Kristen, more control and security when it comes to their health care.” ###
03.09.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 8, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON RESPONDS TO LATEST TANKER BID NEWS Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement after news broke that Northrop Grumman was backing out of the competition to build the KC-X aerial tanker. “The men and women of Pratt & Whitney build the most highly advanced aircraft engines in the world. I believe, and have since the beginning of the process to award to KC-X Tanker contract, that it is vitally important that we keep the jobs and skills to manufacture these planes in the U.S. and particularly in Connecticut. Today’s decision by Northrop Grumman to withdraw from the competition will likely expedite the program and get tankers into the field sooner. It’s now more important than ever for Congress and the Pentagon to ensure that no additional delays arise. This process has been ongoing for more than a decade and as a result some of the tankers currently in use will be more than 50 years old when they are replaced. Our airmen deserve a new tanker.” ###
03.01.2010	For Immediate Release: March 1, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Federal Funding Creates More than Three Hundred New Jobs in Hartford, Increases Access to Health Care Services Larson Awarded National Award for his support of Community Health Centers Hartford, CT- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) toured Charter Oak Health Center, Inc. (COHC) to tout the importance of community health centers to Connecticut’s economic recovery and to announce new jobs created in Hartford as a result of federal funding he helped secure for both COHC and Community Health Services, Inc (CHS). COHC and CHS were awarded $11 million and $7 million respectively in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (Recovery Act) to support capital improvements to the facilities and to expand access to health services for the region’s underinsured and uninsured residents. Construction on the facilities will begin within the year, and will create hundreds of new jobs in Hartford, including 360 jobs at Charter Oak Health Center. At the event, Alfreda Turner of COHC, Michael Sherman of CHS, and Evelyn Barnum of Community Health Center Association of Connecticut presented Congressman Larson with the 2010 “Distinguished Community Health Leadership Award” from the National Association of Community Health Centers. The award is given to members of Congress who have gone above and beyond in championing broader access to primary health care and strengthening the investment in Community Health Centers. “Charter Oak Health Center and Community Health Services are critical partners in maintaining the health and well-being of thousands of uninsured and underinsured residents in the Hartford area. The region has been hit hard economically. The demand for services from community health centers by the residents affected the most during this downturn is increasing every day,” said Congressman Larson. Congressman Larson added “Community health centers are economic drivers in our state, creating needed jobs and spurring economic activity within our communities. In the Hartford region, $24 million in Recovery Act funding to health centers will put $40 million back into our local economy. The funding will allow community health centers to create hundreds of new construction and health services jobs and provide increased health services to our most vulnerable residents.” A recent report by George Washington University on the economic impact of Recovery Act funding to community health centers found that the $1.85 billion invested in health centers nationwide will create $3.2 billion in new economic activity, including $61 million in Connecticut. “We’ve truly counted on Congressman Larson as an important voice on behalf of health centers in our state and indeed across the country," said Evelyn A. Barnum, CEO of the Community Health Center Association of Connecticut. "As economic conditions remain challenging, he also understands that health centers play a key role in providing access to affordable care and stand ready to grow and meet the challenges and demands of the future.” Congressman Larson’s support in bringing Recovery Act resources to Hartford has been critical to maintaining access to medical, dental and mental health services for the tens of thousands of patients who rely on Charter Oak Health Center and Community Health Services,” said Michael Sherman, President of Community Health Services, Inc. “ As we face drastic cuts to funding for the services we provide to Connecticut’s most vulnerable citizens, this funding to sustain and enhance our services and our facilities is absolutely essential.” The report also found that the funding will help health centers in Connecticut serve thousands of new patients. Due to the recent economic downturn, community health centers in Hartford and throughout the state have seen a drastic rise in patients. At COHC, from 2008 to 2009 the number of patient visits increased from 84,000 visits to 101,000, with a projection of 142,000 patient visits for 2010. “Congressman Larson played a critical role in Charter Oak Health Center's successful grant applications to the federal government,” said Alfreda Turner, President and CEO of Charter Oak Health Center, Inc. “He understands the importance of Community Health Centers in ensuring access to quality health care for Connecticut's low income populations and has been a staunch supporter of expansion of health centers during his entire tenure in Congress. His voice of support has earned him this special and well deserved leadership award by the National Association of Community Health Centers.” Congressman Larson is also a co-sponsor of The Access for All America Act which would increase the authorization for community health centers progressively over a five year period to $8.3 billion from its current level of $2.2 billion. ###
02.26.2010	For Immediate Release: February 26, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds (Larson) 860-278-8888 Larson, DeLauro Support Legislation to End the Import of Toxic Jewelry For Children Washington, DC- This week, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) signed on to co-sponsor legislation that will protect our children from exposure to harmful metals in their jewelry. Larson joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), an original co-sponsor, in supporting H.R. 4428, The Children’s Toxic Metals Act, which will prohibit the manufacture, sale or distribution of children’s jewelry that contains cadmium and other toxic metals. Cadmium is a heavy metal that has been used widely in children’s jewelry, exported from China to the United States. Exposure to the metal can cause immediate respiratory and gastrointestinal effects on children. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ranks the metal as #7 on its list of hazardous substances but there is currently no ban on the use of cadmium in imported products for children. “Toxic chemicals and metals should never be in our children’s toys. Every parent should know that the jewelry they bring home for their children are safe and harmless,” said Congressman Larson. “Plain and simple, cadmium is a dangerous metal and we must act to protect our families from it.” After the passage of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act in 2008 limiting lead in children’s products imported into the United States, many Chinese manufacturers used cadmium in its place because it is cheap to use and it is an abundant metal. Recently stores like Wal-Mart, one of our nation’s largest sellers of children toys and jewelry, has pulled from their shelves products that contain cadmium. Congresswoman DeLauro, who over the years has introduced numerous bills to strengthen our country’s consumer product safety laws, continues to be a strong advocate for protecting our children from hazardous toxics and metals. “From our food, to our medicine, to jewelry, we must be at our most vigilant when our children’s safety is at stake. It is astounding to me that a toxic chemical like cadmium is so commonly found in such high concentrations in jewelry specifically made for children—it simply should not be allowed,” Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro said. “Congressman Larson understands the urgent need to act in the face of this dangerous situation, and I look forward to working with him on this worthy bill.” “I can’t think of a more committed partner to work with to progress this legislation than Congresswoman DeLauro. She is truly a leader in Congress and our nation when it comes to protecting consumers and our children,” said Congressman Larson Click here for the full bill text of H.R. 4428, The Children’s Toxic Metals Act ###
02.25.2010	For Immediate Release: February 25th 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 LARSON TO HOST THE 2010 CONGRESSIONAL ARTS COMPETITION Hartford, CT-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) is pleased to announce that the 29th Annual Congressional Arts Competition will take place on Thursday, April 1, 2010, from 5:00pm to 7:00pm at the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, CT. The competition gives students an opportunity to enter their artwork to receive a $6,000 scholarship to the prestigious Savannah College of Art and Design, and will have their work displayed within the U.S. Capitol for the entire year of the exhibition. Congressman Larson has sent letters to the Art Directors in every First Congressional District high school encouraging their students to participate. The competition is open to high school students only, however exceptions will be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Artwork must be matted and does not need to be framed. Students interested in participating in the Congressional Arts Competition, must deliver artwork for submissions to Congressman Larson’s District Office at 221 Main Street, 2nd Floor in Hartford on March 29th March 30th or March 31st between 9:00am and 5:30pm with the student release form completed and signed. To obtain a student release form or for additional information regarding the competition, please contact Lisa Perrone in Larson’s Office by phone at (860) 278-8888 or by email at lisa.perrone@mail.house.gov. The Congressional Arts Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. ###
02.25.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 24, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON STATEMENT ON HEALTH INSURANCE INDUSTRY FAIR MARKET COMPETITION ACT Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the House passed landmark legislation to lower health insurance costs and encourage competition in the health insurance industry. “The legislation passed today will lower health care costs for consumers and make health insurance companies compete like every other American business. Ninety-Four percent of all insurance markets are “highly concentrated” – meaning consumers have little or no choice between insurance providers. This legislation will provide consumers with a real choice in health insurance. Competition is the American way. It drives our economy forward, spurs innovation and ensures consumers get a fair deal.” ###
02.24.2010	For Immediate Release: February 24, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson to Participate in a Live Interactive Online Town Hall about the Fair Elections Now Act Washington, DC- Tomorrow at 6pm, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will lead a live, interactive town hall to discuss his Fair Elections Now Act that will reduce the influence of big donors in the electoral process. Hosted by the Public Campaign Action Fund, the town hall will provide individuals an opportunity to hear first-hand from Congressman Larson about how the legislation will empower small donors and ensure that elections remain about the voters, and not special interests. After the Supreme Court voted in favor of allowing big corporations and special interests to spend almost unlimited amounts of money in political elections, the need for reform in the electoral process has become even more important. The Fair Elections Now Act, sponsored by Congressman Larson, creates a voluntary system that allows candidates to spend their time meeting with constituents and working on the issues most important to their communities instead of dialing for big dollars. This landmark bipartisan legislation currently has 135 co-sponsors in the House of Representatives and the support of well respected national and local organizations. Log on to https://townhall.fairelectionsnow.org on Thursday, February 25th at 6 pm and you’ll be able to ask questions about the legislation during the interactive event, as Congressman Larson replies over a live video stream. Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson and the Public Campaign Action Fund What: Online Town Hall-Fair Elections Now Act When: 6:00PM, Thursday, February 25th 2010 Where: https://townhall.fairelectionsnow.org ###
02.23.2010	For Immediate Release: February 23, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: Federal Funding to Community Health Centers Creates $40 Million in Economic Activity for Hartford Region 1.85 billion invested nationwide in health centers will create $3.2 billion in new economic activity, including $61 million in Connecticut. Hartford, CT- A recent study found that Recovery Act funding to community health centers in the Greater Hartford area will generate approximately $40 million dollars in economic activity for the region. In all, the $1.85 billion that have been invested in health centers nationwide through the Recovery Act will create $3.2 billion in new economic activity, including $61 million in Connecticut. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the report’s findings of the benefits of the more than $24 million in direct funding the Recovery Act has provided to community health centers in the area. The health centers that have received funding include the Community Health Services of Hartford, Charter Oak Health Center of Hartford, Community Health Center of Middletown, East Hartford Community Health Care, and the Community Health & Wellness Center of Greater Torrington. “Community health centers are a great investment. They provide vital health services for the community and for every $1 million invested we receive a $1.67 million return in economic activity. The targeted funding went to Community Health Centers in areas facing a high number of unemployed and are serving those who are uninsured or underinsured. “In Torrington, the Community Health and Wellness Center of Greater Torrington was able to triple the number of patients it can serve with the funding it received. A few months ago, I was proud to celebrate with Alfreda Turner and the Charter Oak Health Center after President Obama announced over $16 million dollars in funding for Hartford-based Community Health Centers. Hartford has been hit hard economically in this downturn and this funding will translate into increased access to health care services and new employment opportunities for our community. “By expanding services within the centers and hiring additional care providers and support staff the community health centers in Hartford, Torrington will help where we need it the most -providing essential health services and creating jobs.” Three of the health centers receiving funding in Congressman Larson’s district are located in towns with unemployment rates above 10% (East Hartford-10.6%, Hartford-15.1%, Torrington-10.9%). The report (to read the report-https://bit.ly/bzLBfg ) investigating the Early Effects of Recovery Act Funding on Health Centers and Medically Underserved Populations and Communities was released last week by the United Health Foundation and the Geiger Gibson / RCHN Community Health Foundation at George Washington University. The report found the following: The $1.85 billion invested to date in health centers under the Recovery Act translates into $3.2 billion in new economic activity in these communities. Recovery Act funding will help health centers in Connecticut serve over 37,000 additional patients. Community Health Centers generate $61 million in economic activity for the State of Connecticut. The Recovery Act has achieved its goal of directing resources into those communities that tend to bear the heaviest burden of an economic downturn, and have low community incomes, a disproportionate percentage of low wage workers, inadequate primary care access, and elevated health risks. Community health centers receiving ARRA funding tend to be located in areas with higher rates of unemployment and recent job losses. The average unemployment rate among counties with health center ARRA grantees was 9.6 percent compared to an average rate of 9.0 percent in all other counties Please click here to read the report by The Economic Stimulus: Gauging the Early Effects of ARRA Funding on Health Centers and Medically Underserved Populations and Communities. Please click here for a breakdown of Recovery Act funding for Community Health Centers in Connecticut. ###
02.22.2010	For Immediate Release: February 22, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Visits Hartford Vet Center, Applauds President Obama’s Efforts to Increase Funds to End Backlog of Veterans’ Claims Rocky Hill, CT- Last week, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) visited the Hartford Vet Center in Rocky Hill to tour the facility as well as to speak to veterans about his efforts on their behalf and how his office can assist them. In addition to reviewing successful legislation, Congressman Larson lauded President Obama for advocating increased federal funding to end the gridlock slowing veterans’ benefit claims. The Hartford Vet Center provides quality care services to veterans and their families including combat trauma counseling and transitional services. Congressman Larson toured a mobile vet center, one of just 50 in the country that travels around the nation and provides similar services to the Center’s. “I am honored to work on behalf of the men and women who have bravely served our nation. My visit to the Hartford Vet Center allowed me to speak directly to veterans and hear their concerns. I am proud of the work done by the staff at the Hartford Vet Center, and I will continue to support their efforts to assist and provide essential services to our state’s veterans,” said Congressman Larson. During his meeting with a roundtable of veterans, all of whom utilize the services at the Hartford Vet Center, Larson applauded President Obama for seeking a $460 million increase in the VA’s annual budget to end the backlog in veterans’ claims for benefits. The funding will allow for the hiring of 4,000 additional claims processors. Since 2000, there has been a 75 percent increase in veterans’ claims, mostly due to the number of Agent Orange related illnesses. Recently, Congressman Larson assisted a Vietnam veteran from Rocky Hill, who was originally told his claim would take six month to process, receive his VA benefits. Congressman Larson added, “The veteran was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. The illness is directly related to his exposure to Agent Orange from his service in Vietnam. After being told his claim would take six months for approval, he contacted my office asking for assistance. I wrote a letter to the Director of the Hartford Regional Office of the VA requesting his application be expedited.” In less than a month, the constituent’s claim was processed. He has started to receive the treatment and services he needs to combat the illness. “The men and women that served our country with valor and heroism, like the veterans I met at the Vet Center and those my office assists on a daily basis, should not wait months and months for their claims to be processed. I applaud President Obama for making this issue a priority.” ###
02.22.2010	For Immediate Release: February 22, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: Tru-Hitch’s Army Contract Increased to $29.1 Million The New Contract will help create jobs and sustain the company for Years Hartford, CT- Days after visiting Tru-Hitch, Inc in Barkhamsted for a tour and to speak with employees about the military contract he helped secured for the small business, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the U.S. Army has agreed to expand their current contract with the company. The new contract for additional towing hitch systems will increase the cumulative contract amount to $29.1 million dollars. With the help of Congressman Larson, who has extolled the company’s work and its abilities to create jobs in the region to the Army, Tru-Hitch originally secured a $16.2 million U.S. Army contract to produce 105 safe and efficient recovery equipments that will transport disabled armored and heavy duty military vehicles in Iraq and Afghanistan. “My visit with Tru-Hitch’s President Martin Marola and his employees was both informative and inspiring. This company was created by Martin’s ingenuity – Yankee ingenuity if you will - and the highly skilled workers of Tru-Hitch,” said Congressman Larson. “Connecticut must retake its lead in patents per capita in order to help create jobs in our communities and opportunities for our residents. Manufacturing is in our DNA and our state’s soul. I am proud to see its vitality in the success of this small business.” The contract has allowed Tru-Hitch to maintain their current workforce and create 21 new positions. The company, with the recent modification of the contract, has the potential to create 20-30 more jobs. During military testing, Tru-Hitch’s product out-performed its competition, in addition to costing less than a third of the price of their competitors’ product. Congressman Larson added, “The Army and Tru-Hitch’s partners know the quality and reliable equipment this company produces. This growing small business is valiantly serving our men and women abroad in Iraq and Afghanistan while saving taxpayers money, creating local jobs and enhancing our economy.” ###
02.17.2010	For Immediate Release: February 17th 2010Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson, NCCC Celebrate $350,000 in Federal Funding to Create New Nursing Program Winsted, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) visited Northwestern Connecticut Community College (NCCC) in Winsted to announce $350,000 in federal funding he helped secure for the college's new nursing program. Joining Congressman Larson at the announcement was Dr. Marc Herzog, Chancellor of the Connecticut Community College System, President Barbara Douglass and Professor Barbara Berger both of whom from NCCC. Connecticut will have the second worst nursing shortage in the nation by 2015, with the largest number occurring in the state occurring in Litchfield County. Northwestern Connecticut Community College will have the first accredited degree or diploma nursing program in the region. It is estimated Litchfield County's nursing vacancy rate is 14% annually, double the statewide average. "This journey of creating the nursing program was truly a labor of love and devotion for President Douglass, Professor Berger, and the NCCC community," said Congressman Larson. "Community Colleges, all across our nation, are vital partners in supporting regional and community development. After speaking with President Douglass on the urgent need for this project in the region, economically and socially, I pledged I would do everything I could to help make this nursing program a reality." Congressman Larson added, "Today's announcement will provide the training to future nurses and help close the pending nursing shortage facing the region and our state. I am certain, this federal funding and this nursing program will help systemically transform the economic and health care landscape of Litchfield County for the better." Over the past two years, Congressman Larson and his staff met and worked with President Barbara Douglass on this initiative. In addition to the federal support, President Douglass and Professor Berger, with the help of private and public partners throughout Litchfield County, spearheaded a fundraising campaign effort to raise funds and community support to create the nursing program. "Congressman Larson's keen interest and tangible support for a nursing program at NCCC have provided the impetus to move this program forward," said NCCC President Barbara Douglass. "With these crucial federal funds, NCCC plans to welcome its first nursing students in January 2011. Our college and the Northwest corner are deeply appreciative of Congressman Larson's efforts on our behalf." The funding secured by Congressman Larson was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010, broad legislation that provides targeted investments to improve our economy and address pending health, educational, infrastructure needs within our communities. It was signed into law by President Obama on December 16th 2009. ###
02.11.2010	Larson Announces Federal Funding to Local Fire Departments Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that two local fire departments were awarded federal funding from the Assistance to Firefighters program. The West Hartford Fire Department and the Windsor Fire Department will receive $134,400 and $18,900 respectfully in funding. All of the grants were awarded under the operations and safety program area. Congressman Larson said, “We must provide our first responders with the necessary equipment, technology, and support to safely do their jobs to protect our communities.” “During these tough economic times, municipalities are facing tough budget decisions that may prevent them from adequately supporting their public safety agencies,” Congressman Larson added. “This grant program alleviates the financial burden placed on towns and allows them to ensure the safety of their residents as well as the men and women who protect them.” Congressman Larson has long supported the Assistance to Fire Fighters grant program and encourages all fire departments in his district to apply for funding. Congressman Larson’s Office contacted all 37 fire chiefs in the district to provide information on the program’s application process and to offer his office’s federal grants coordinator as a resource to answer any questions. Last year, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program distributed approximately $1.7 million dollars in funding to fire departments and EMS organizations in the First Congressional District. Background on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Administered by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), the Assistance to Firefighters provides grants and funding for training and equipment for our nation’s fire departments and first responders. This year, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program will award approximately $565 million directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. ###
02.11.2010	Larson Announces Westfield Fire Department to Receive Federal Fire Grant Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson announced that the Westfield Fire Department of Middletown will receive $74,518 from the Assistance to Firefighters program. Administered by the Department of Homeland Security and FEMA, the grant awarded to Westfield was in the operations and safety program area. Congressman Larson said, “We must provide our first responders with the necessary equipment, technology, and support to safely do their jobs and protect our communities. Sunday’s unfortunate explosion at Kleen Energy Power plant is an example of the huge challenges they must be prepared for at any given time. The first responders in Middletown and across the region did a great job in a short amount of time to respond to this unfortunate tragedy. I commend them.” Congressman Larson has long supported the Assistance to Fire Fighters grant program and encourages all fire departments in his district to apply for funding. Congressman Larson’s Office contacted all 37 fire chiefs in the district to provide information on the program’s application process and to offer his office’s federal grants coordinator as a resource to answer any questions. “During these tough economic times, municipalities are facing tough budget decisions that may prevent them from adequately supporting their public safety agencies,” Congressman Larson added. “This grant program alleviates the financial burden placed on towns and allows them to ensure the safety of their residents as well as the men and women who protect them.” Last year, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program distributed approximately $1.7 million dollars in funding to fire departments and EMS organizations in the First Congressional District. Background on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Administered by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), the Assistance to Firefighters provides grants and funding for training and equipment for our nation’s fire departments and first responders. This year, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program will award approximately $565 million directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. ###
02.08.2010	For Immediate Release: February 8, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON STATEMENT ON PASSING OF CONGRESSMAN MURTHA Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson released the following statement on the passing for Congressman John Murtha (PA-12). "In John Murtha, America has lost a true hero and patriot and the United States Congress has lost a giant. Our hearts go out to his wife Joyce and his entire family. John Murtha was a true gentleman whose handshake and promise you could trust. I have been lucky during my years in Congress to count him as a close friend and mentor. He has provided me, and every member of the Congress, with guidance and strength throughout his service. "Jack Murtha was the staunchest ally our military has ever had. He never backed down from a fight to make sure our brave men and women in uniform had the equipment they needed and a mission they could accomplish. He stood up for Pennsylvania and his district, never losing sight of where he came from. "I am reminded at times like these of just how fleeting life can be - Jack Murtha made the most of his time. The country will miss him, this Congress will miss him and I will surely miss him." ###
02.08.2010	Reps. Larson, DeLauro, Courtney Announce Hearing to be Held on Middletown Energy Plant Explosion WASHINGTON, DC – After surveying the Middletown Kleen Energy Systems plant this morning, Representatives Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) announced that they have received a commitment from House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller (CA-07) that a Congressional hearing will be held in response to the Sunday explosion. Reps. Larson, DeLauro, and Courtney requested the hearing on Sunday evening. “We are grateful to Chairman Miller for his expeditious response to our request for a hearing following the tragedy that occurred in Middletown. Our first commitment is to ensure that the families of those who lost their lives and the well-being of those who were injured are provided the resources they need.” “However, it is imperative that we review what went wrong and to make sure that all appropriate measures are put in place to prevent this type of catastrophe from happening again.” A hearing date has not yet been determined. The House Education and Labor Committee oversees workplace and employee safety issues. Congressman Courtney is a member of the committee. # # #
02.07.2010	For Immediate Release: February 7, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-539-4924 Larson: Statement on the Kleen Energy System Power Plant Explosion Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on the explosion at the Kleen Energy Systems Power Plant earlier today: "First and foremost my thoughts and prayers are with the individuals, families, and the communities affected by this tragedy. “Earlier today, I reached out to Mayor Guiliano and the Ironworkers Union to express my sympathy and to assure them of my commitment to assist in any way that I can. “The first responders from Middletown and in the region are doing yeoman work on the ground. I am extremely confident in their abilities, as they have the training and expertise to handle a situation of this immense magnitude. “My office stands ready to assist the families and the region in recovering from this catastrophic event. We will persevere with a steadfast heart and a focus on saving lives and providing support to those affected by today’s incident.” ###
02.06.2010	For Immediate Release: February 6, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-539-4924 Congressman Larson: Statement on Pratt & Whitney Lawsuit Decision “An Overwhelming Victory for Pratt Workers and the State of Connecticut” Hartford, CT- U.S Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. District Court injunction against Pratt &Whitney to uphold their current Collective Bargaining Agreement with the International Association of Machinists (IAM) District 26. The decision, offered late last night, prevents Pratt &Whitney from closing both the Cheshire and East Hartford CARO operations. The subsequent work was going to be relocated to the state of Georgia and out of the country. “This announcement is an overwhelming victory for Pratt workers and the State of Connecticut. I congratulate the Machinists Union and its members on successfully challenging the actions of Pratt &Whitney and ensuring more than 1,000 highly skilled jobs remain where it belongs, in Connecticut. “I and the Connecticut Congressional Delegation have worked hard to secure the essential military projects for Pratt & Whitney to help grow our economy and create jobs in our state. “The company’s plans to close both the Cheshire and East Hartford CARO operations without taking every legitimate action to prevent it, is both disheartening and upsetting. “I strongly urge Pratt & Whitney not to appeal this decision, but to work with the Union, the Congressional Delegation, and the State to help keep these jobs in Connecticut for the long term. By working together, both Pratt & Whitney and the Union can and will prosper.” ###
02.05.2010	For Immediate Release: February 5, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON, SÁNCHEZ INTRODUCE RESOLUTION OPPOSING REPUBLICAN PLANS TO PRIVATIZE SOCIAL SECURITY Legislation already has more than 20 original co-sponsors Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus and Congresswoman Linda Sánchez (CA-39), introduced a resolution today in opposition to Republican plans to privatize Social Security. The resolution expresses the will of House Democrats to preserve Social Security and reaffirms our commitment to working in a bipartisan way to make common sense adjustments to strengthen the program for generations to come. Larson said, “Republicans are dusting off their old playbook and re-hashing old ideas like the privatization of Social Security that the American people have already rejected. Their ideas would end the program as we know it and put the retirement security of millions of America’s seniors and workers at risk. My colleagues and I introduced this resolution to show the American people that we are standing with them and against these destructive ideas.” Sánchez said, “When the stock market crashed in 2008, it was apparent that the Republican’s push to privatize Social Security was a bad idea. Americans have not forgotten the dangers of tying their retirement security to the whims of Wall Street. It was a bad idea then, and it is a bad idea now. This resolution supports Americans who contribute all their working life to a retirement and want income security in their golden years.” The resolution states: · Social Security has provided the foundation for Americans’ retirement security for generations and should be preserved for generations to come. · Social Security provides a guaranteed benefit that one can never outlive, and unlike private savings or investments, it is not subject to the ups and downs of the stock market. · The American people made clear in 2005 that they did not seek severe change in Social Security when they resoundingly rejected President Bush’s attempt to privatize Social Security in favor or preserving a secure guaranteed foundation of retirement income free from risks and losses of the stock market. · The Current minority party plan for Social Security is even more extreme than the plan they advanced in 2005. o It cuts guaranteed Social Security retirement and survivor benefits for all workers. o It diverts trillions from the trust fund into private accounts. o It increases Federal borrowing by $4,100,000,000,000. o It subjects worker’s basic retirement security to market volatility and the risk of losses. The resolution already has more than 20 original co-sponsors including, Rep. James Oberstar (MN-08), Rep. Pete Stark (CA-13), Rep. Bill Pascrell (NJ-08), Rep. Brian Higgins (NY-27), Rep. Mike Thompson (CA-01), Rep. Bob Filner (CA-51), Rep. Allyson Schwartz (PA-13), Rep. Louise Slaughter (NY-28), Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Rep. Richard Neal (MA-02), Rep. John Yarmuth (KY-03), Rep. Danny Davis (IL-07), Rep. Shelley Berkley (NV-01), Rep. Ike Skelton (MO-04), Rep. Joseph Crowley (NY-07), Rep. John Lewis (GA-05), Rep. Earl Pomeroy (ND- at large), Rep. Sander Levin (MI-12), Rep. Ron Kind (WI-03), Rep. Dave Obey (WI-07) and, Rep. Henry Waxman (CA-30), with many more members continuing to sign on. ###
02.04.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 4, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM BILL GARNERS SUPPORT FROM MAJORITY OF HOUSE DEMOCRATS Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, announced today that his Fair Elections legislation, to take the hunt for big money out of politics, now has the support of the majority of House Democrats. Backing for the Fair Elections Now Act has grown in response to a Supreme Court decision earlier this year that opened the floodgates to corporate spending in political campaigns. Congressman Larson said, “Americans are sick and tired of wealthy special interests and big business influencing the outcome of elections, and the Supreme Court decision will only make matters worse. Fair Elections gives us the opportunity to turn back the tide of corporate interests and give all Americans an equal say in their government. Members of the House from both sides of the aisle are supporting the Fair Elections bill because it gives all of us an opportunity to spend more of our time tackling the issues the American people sent us here to deal with, rather than dialing for dollars.” The 134 co-sponsors of the Fair Elections Now Act represent a diverse range of House Democrats including 66 percent of new members, 62 percent of Democratic women and half of the Congressional Black Caucus. The bill also recently won the endorsement of the NAACP, the Center for American Progress, the SEIU, 40 businesses and 200 religious leaders. “The country needs both parties to work to solve the political crisis created by the Supreme Court’s decision in Citizens United, and the bipartisan solution that has the broadest support within Congress is Fair Elections,” said Nick Nyhart, president and CEO of Public Campaign. “Not only is it the best policy response to the escalating cost to run for office, it will take candidates off the fundraising treadmill and encourage them to seek support from voters back home. This bill is democracy-in-action.” The announcement today comes on the same day that Fair Elections activists are storming the Hill to deliver petitions and letters of support for the legislation. Fair Elections would not raise the constitutional challenges that have been levied against the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform law. It would offer candidates the choice of accessing public funds for their campaigns if they reach a certain threshold of support and forego big dollar fundraising in exchange for the sort of grassroots small donor efforts we saw Barack Obama use so successfully in his presidential campaign. Here’s how the Fair Elections Now Act would work: The program is completely voluntary – no candidate for Congress is compelled to use it. Candidates must raise a minimum level of small individual contributions to qualify for the program. Once they qualify, candidates will abide by various restrictions and disclosure requirements. Qualified candidates will receive an up-front grant, based on the average costs of winning campaigns in recent elections for their primary campaigns, and if nominated, another grant for their general election campaign. Candidates will also receive a match for contributions of $100 or less from an individual; that match will stop after a certain spending level is reached, but candidates may continue to raise donations of up to $100 per individual without a match. ###
02.03.2010	For Immediate Release: February 3, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 Larson to Host “Seniors Listening Tour” Across the District First Three Stops in Bristol, Berlin, and Windsor Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced his plan to reach out to seniors across the first district by visiting senior centers and hearing directly from them on issues ranging from the economy to Social Security. Congressman Larson’s “Seniors Listening Tour” will kick off in mid-February with the first stop at the Bristol Senior Center. “When it comes to our seniors, I have fought to strengthen their retirement security and supported legislation that will grow our economy today and in the future. I can best serve our seniors and the residents of the district by listening to their comments and applying it to my work on their behalf in Washington and in Connecticut,” said Congressman Larson. At each stop, Larson will also distribute his “Seniors Update” pamphlet which includes information on how his office can assist seniors with Social Security and Medicare issues and an update on legislation of interest to seniors. The following is a confirmed list of senior centers Congressman Larson will visit. Future visits will be announced at a later date: February 16th 9:00AM-10:00AM Bristol Senior Center 240 Stafford Avenue Bristol, CT 10:30AM-11:30AM Berlin Community Center 230 Kensington Road Berlin, CT February 18th 11:00 AM to 12:00PM Windsor Senior Center 599 Matianuck Avenue Windsor, CT ###
01.29.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 29, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: ECONOMIC GROWTH IS A GOOD SIGN, NOW IT MUST LEAD TO MORE JOBS Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement in response to the news today that our economy grew 5.7% in the fourth quarter of last year, the highest rate of growth in six years. “Today’s positive news on the economy is a sign that there is light at the end of the tunnel. Our country is coming out of this deep recession. But a rising GDP isn’t enough. That growth must be translated into new jobs, rising wages and a fair shake for average Americans. In Congress, we will continue to do everything we can to support economic growth and encourage small businesses to thrive and create new jobs. Businesses that have weathered this financial storm now need to start looking for ways they can hire new employees or give a current employee a few more hours of work each week. “The economic situation we found ourselves in when President Obama took office a year ago was nothing less than dire. This Congress has been working since then to create jobs, rebuild our economy and make sure a financial crisis like this never happens again. It is taking hard work from all of us to build our way out of the hole left for us by the Bush Administration and to lay a strong foundation for shared prosperity for the future. Today we began to see the benefit of that work with the strongest economic growth in six years. ” ###
01.29.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 28, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON URGES STATE TO COORDINATE BETTER ON FUTURE RAIL PROJECTS Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the announcement of some federal grants going to rail improvements in the state. “This funding is a good start to reaching our goals for transportation updates for Connecticut and I commend Senator Dodd for his hard work on this issue. But, the state needs to be better coordinated and prepared to take advantage of future opportunities from the federal government’s commitment to high speed rail and rebuilding our infrastructure. “The development of a high speed rail corridor between New Haven and Springfield would strengthen Connecticut’s economy by helping to create jobs immediately and providing a vital corridor for commerce between New York and Boston. This project remains a top priority for me and I will continue my work in Congress to advance it.” ###
01.29.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 28, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON APPLAUDS SENATE FOR PASSING PAYGO Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement today in response to the Senate’s passage of Statutory Pay-As-You-Go legislation. “I applaud my colleagues in the Senate for acting responsibly and taking up Statutory Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) legislation - legislation that is vital to our economic and fiscal recovery. In the 1990’s PAYGO policies led this nation to an era of growth and wealth with budget surpluses and job creation. In fact, if this nation had stayed on track with the Clinton-era budgets, we would be near repaying our debts. Instead, President Bush and Congressional Republicans turned their back on fiscal responsibility and turned record surpluses into the record deficits that led to the worst economic crisis in a generation. “Democrats will turn our fiscal house around once again using PAYGO to rebuild the economy after nearly a decade of disastrous Republican policies. I urge my Republican colleagues to help clean up the mess they made by supporting PAYGO legislation.” ###
01.29.2010	For Immediate Release: January 28, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Announces Federal Fire Grants to Five Area Fire Departments Glastonbury, New Harford, South Manchester Fire Departments and Torringford and Drakeville Fire Departments in Torrington Awarded Funding Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that five local fire departments in the 1st Congressional District have been awarded a total of $152,261 federal funding from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The fire departments receiving funding are the Torringford and Drakeville Volunteer Fire Departments from Torrington, Glastonbury Fire Department, South Manchester Fire Department, and the New Hartford Volunteer Fire Department. All of the grants were awarded under the operations and safety program area. “The first responders in Connecticut and across the nation must be equipped with the necessary and updated equipment to secure and maintain the health of our communities,” said Congressman Larson. “I will continue to support the full funding of this program, as I have seen its benefits first hand in protecting our region and its residents.” The following is the breakdown of funding to the fire departments: Drakeville Volunteer Fire Department, Torrington, CT-$19,950 Glastonbury Fire Department-$13,220 New Hartford Volunteer Fire Department-$45,030 South Manchester Fire Department-$51,806 Torringford Volunteer Fire Department, Torrington, CT- $22,255 Congressman Larson has long supported the Assistance to Fire Fighters grant program and encourages all fire departments in his district to apply for funding. Congressman Larson’s Office contacted all 37 fire chiefs in the district to provide information on the program’s application process and to offer his office’s federal grants coordinator as a resource to answer any questions. Last year, the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program distributed approximately $1.7 million dollars in funding to fire departments and EMS organizations in the First Congressional District. Background of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Administered by the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA), the Assistance to Firefighters provides grants and funding for training and equipment for our nation’s fire departments and first responders. In Fiscal Year 2009, DHS Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program will award approximately $565 million directly to fire departments and EMS organizations to enhance their response capabilities and to more effectively protect the public and emergency response personnel with respect to fire and all other hazards. ###
01.27.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 27, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CALLS ON OBAMA TO SUPPORT NATURAL GAS POLICY Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, encouraged the President today to use his State of the Union speech tonight to make the case for a renewed investment in natural gas technology as an alternative energy source. Chairman Larson said, “For the sake of our economy and our national security it is vital that we stop exporting dollars overseas for foreign oil. Our reliance on foreign oil is putting our homeland and our jobs in serious jeopardy. We must turn the corner to alternative sources of energy and I believe that natural gas is a vital part of our efforts to do that. “I encourage President Obama to advocate for a new investment in natural gas in his State of the Union speech tonight. Natural gas is an American alternative energy that, with the right investments now, can help transition us to a clean American energy future. Encouraging this industry will create good-paying jobs here at home and boost our economy for the long term. With support from President Obama, I believe we will be able to do what’s right for this nation and make the investments we need to promote the American natural gas industry. “During the Bush Administration, we went eight long years without a serious investment in alternative energies like natural gas. Now, Democrats are changing that focus – putting the future and safety of American families first. If Republicans are serious about working together, this initiative which boosts American businesses, creates jobs and reduces our dependence on foreign oil, should be one their leadership can get behind.” ###
01.26.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 26, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON RESPONDS TO CBO DEFICIT PROJECTIONS Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement today in response to the deficit projections from the Congressional Budget Office. “It doesn’t take a new statistic or economic indicator to tell you that these are scary economic times. Many Americans fear losing their jobs, their homes and their way of life. That is why House Democrats are working to turn our economy around for the middle class. We are working to lower the deficit and create an environment that fosters job growth to put our economy on sound footing for the future. “In the 1990’s Democrats created jobs and reduced the deficit at the same time, and we will do it again. Unfortunately, President Bush and Congressional Republicans took the trillion dollar surplus and record job growth we created and turned it into a record deficit and the worst economy in a generation. In fact, 90% of the projected deficit is due to the cost of the Bush economic collapse and Bush policies like his unpaid for tax cuts for the wealthy. The devastating fiscal hole he left us in was far worse than anyone could have imagined. We are digging out and rebuilding our economy in a way that will benefit all Americans, not just the wealthy, and all sectors of our economy, not just big corporations.” ###
01.21.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 21, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON LEGISLATION LIMITS BIG MONEY INFLUENCE IN POLITICS WITHOUT CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES FROM TODAY’S SUPREME COURT DECISION Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, has introduced legislation that would take the influence of big money out of our campaign finance system while abiding by today’s Supreme Court ruling on this issue. The Supreme Court came out with a decision today that will allow big corporations and special interests to spend almost unlimited amounts of money in elections. The Fair Elections Now Act (FENA), creates a voluntary system that allows candidates to spend their time meeting with constituents and working on issues most important to their communities instead of dialing for big dollars. “At a time when the American people are disgusted by the amount of money in political system, the Supreme Court decision today will remove the remaining safeguards that have given the American people a fair voice in government. The Supreme Court’s decision today has the potential to unleash a flurry of big dollar corporate donations and special interests into our political system. We must act now to keep this corrosive influence out of our political system,” said Congressman Larson. “The Fair Elections Now Act would let lawmakers get back to the work they came to Washington to do without spending their time in a hunt for campaign dollars.” FENA would be exempt from the constitutional challenges that have been raised against the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform law. It would offer candidates the choice of accessing public funds for their campaigns if they reach a certain threshold of support and forego big dollar fundraising in exchange for the sort of grassroots small donor efforts we saw Barack Obama use so successfully in his presidential campaign. “Before the Supreme Court decision 79% of voters believed large campaign contributions will prevent Congress from tackling pressing issues like the economy and weaning our country off of foreign oil. That perception will be even worse after the demise of long-standing campaign finance laws,” said Congressman Larson. “My colleagues came to Washington to enact the real change the American people want to see from their government and this legislation will allow them to do that.” States around the country have acted as laboratories for election reform like the Fair Elections Act. They’ve shown overwhelming success in reducing the influence of big donors and letting lawmakers get back to doing the people’s business. Now it is time for us to take the lessons learned in our states and cities and enact the Fair Elections Act on a federal level. Here’s how the Fair Elections Now Act would work: The program is completely voluntary – no candidate for Congress is compelled to use it. Candidates must raise a minimum level of small individual contributions to qualify for the program. Once they qualify, candidates will abide by various restrictions and disclosure requirements. Qualified candidates will receive an up-front grant, based on the average costs of winning campaigns in recent elections for their primary campaigns, and if nominated, another grant for their general election campaign. Candidates will also receive a match for contributions of $100 or less from an individual; that match will stop after a certain spending level is reached, but candidates may continue to raise donations of up to $100 per individual without a match. ###
01.14.2010	Below you will find a helpful fact sheet concerning aid and rescue efforts in response to the recent earthquake in Haiti which includes phone numbers to call if someone is trying to find the status of their loved ones in Haiti and suggestions for those who wish to make a donation to assist in the relief efforts. For the most up to date information please monitor the White House Website at https://www.whitehouse.gov/HaitiEarthquake or the United States Embassy in Haiti at https://www.haiti.usembassy.gov/ ____________________ ***Please note that the State Department has issued a travel alert for Haiti. Click here to read the alert at the State Department’s website. *** How to contact a family member Families of Americans living in Haiti who are trying to find the status of their loved ones are encouraged to contact the State Department at 1-888-407-4747. This line is experiencing a high volume of calls at this time, so we ask for your continued patience. * To better handle the volume of requests, the State Department has also established an email address for people who are trying to contact their American Citizen relatives in Haiti: Haiti-Earthquake@state.gov *The U.S. Embassy is working to identify U.S. citizens in Haiti who need urgent assistance and to identify sources of emergency help. U.S. citizens in Haiti have been asked to contact the Embassy’s Consular task force at ACSPaP@state.gov or (509) 2229-8942, (509) 2229-8089, (509) 2229-8322, or (509) 2229-8672 How can I help? Private Citizens are encouraged to focus their efforts on supporting established aid organizations that are deploying resources to Haiti, and to hold off on travelling there themselves. *Cash donations are the most efficient and effective way to help the relief effort in Haiti. You can immediately donate to the Red Cross to assist the relief effort by contributing online at https://american.redcross.org/supporthaiti, or by donating $10 to be charged to your cell phone bill by texting "HAITI" to "90999." *You can also find more ways to help through the Center for International Disaster Information website, or through USAID’s interactive website, which has a list of NGOs and instructions on how to help. Haitian Earthquake Relief Fraud Alert The FBI has issued a fraud alert, reminding Internet users who receive appeals to donate money in the aftermath of Tuesday’s earthquake in Haiti to apply a critical eye and do their due diligence before responding to those requests. Past tragedies and natural disasters have prompted individuals with criminal intent to solicit contributions purportedly for a charitable organization and/or a good cause. Read the alert
01.13.2010	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 13, 2010 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: FINANCIAL INQUIRY PANEL WILL FIND THE ANSWERS THE AMERICAN PEOPLE HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in anticipation of the first public meeting of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. Congressman Larson led the call for the creation of this panel beginning in September of 2008. “As Congress moves ahead with legislation to reform the financial sector, create jobs and rebuild our economy, it is equally important that we look back to see where things went wrong. The American people are demanding a new culture on Wall Street. Today, the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission begins a process that I and the American people have been demanding for over a year now. We will finally start to get answers about what led to the collapse of our financial system and our economy. This commission will help shed light on the old practices that put the savings and investments of the American people at risk in order to bring about new, more transparent and honest behaviors. “I have the utmost faith in Phil Angelides, Congressman Bill Thomas and the rest of the Commissioners to demystify the workings and change the culture of Wall Street much like Ferdinand Pecora did in the 1930s.” ###
01.12.2010	For Immediate Release: January 12, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Announces Recovery Act Funding for Broadband Expansion in Connecticut Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman John B. Larson joined the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) to announce that the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control (DPUC) were awarded $1.8 million dollars in Recovery Act funding to support broadband planning efforts and expand broadband access throughout Connecticut. Of the funding, $1.3 million will be used for broadband data collection and mapping activities and $500,000 will be used for broadband planning activities. All of the activities will be funded over a two-year period. “We must provide our children and our communities the tools and capabilities to compete in a global economy. This funding will allow Connecticut to identify the regions within the state lacking the infrastructure for broadband services while supporting the expansion of this technology throughout the state,” said Congressman Larson. “At the current technological growth rate of our world, we cannot afford for one child or one resident in Connecticut to be left behind.” Congressman Larson added, “Congress and the Obama Administration, with the passage of the Recovery Act and timely release of funds to the states, truly understand the importance of stimulating our economy and encouraging technological innovation.” Background on the Recovery Act’s State Broadband Data and Development Grant Program: The State Broadband Data and Development Grant Program, a matching grant program, implements the joint purposes of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) and the Broadband Data Improvement Act (BDIA). Funded by ARRA, The program will provide grants to assist states or their designees in gathering and verifying state-specific data on the availability, speed, location, and technology type of broadband services. The data collected and compiled will also be used to develop publicly available state-wide broadband maps and to inform the comprehensive, interactive, and searchable national broadband map that NTIA is required by the Recovery Act to create and make publicly available by February 17, 2011. The national broadband map will publicly display the geographic areas where broadband service is available; the technology used to provide the service; the speeds of the service; and broadband service availability at public schools, libraries, hospitals, colleges, universities, and public buildings. The national map will also be searchable by address and show the broadband providers offering service in the corresponding census block or street segment. # # #
01.08.2010	For Immediate Release: January 8, 2010 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Holds Informational Federal Funding Meetings for Local Non-Profits, Municipalities Information provided at the meeting is available at www.Larson.House.Gov or during Larson’s Satellite Office Hours Hartford, CT- On Thursday, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s office hosted a meeting for interested non-profits to discuss federal funding and grant opportunities in 2010. Conducted by Larson’s District Office Chief of Staff, Legislative Director, Federal Grants Coordinator, the meeting provided non-profits and organizations with 501(c) 3 status an opportunity to learn about the available resources through our office and provide an overview of the upcoming Fiscal Year 2011 competitive funding process. Earlier this week, Larson held a similar meeting for Mayors and First Selectman from the cities within the district in addition to a small business forum in Hartford yesterday. Individuals in attendance for the meetings received a federal funding resource guide prepared by Congressman Larson’s office. Non-profits interested in receiving the resource guide as well as additional federal, state, and foundation funding information can contact Congressman Larson’s office at 860-278-8888 or go to the Federal Grants section on his website at www.larson.house.gov . Over the past year, Congressman Larson’s District office has held satellite office in every town in the district. The office hours provide members of Congressman Larson’s staff to answer questions from constituents ranging in local and legislative issues from Medicare to veterans affairs on a first come first serve basis. Satellite Office hours is also an opportunity for non-profits to learn about available federal resources and grants to help their organizations. On Tuesday, January 12th from 10:30AM-12:30PM, Congressman Larson’s staff will hold office hours at the Bristol Public Library. ###
01.06.2010	For Immediate Release: January 6, 2010Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson Hosts Small Business Summit in Hartford's North End Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) hosted a Small Business Summit in Hartford's North End. Congressman Larson called for the summit after small business owners in the region, specifically in Hartford's North End, expressed concerns with the current funding and loan opportunities available to them. Larson was joined by Jeanne Hulit, New England Administrator for the U.S. Small Business Administration and representatives from local financial and lending institutions to hear first hand from small business owners detailing their difficulties in obtaining the necessary capital to sustain or expand their business. At the conclusion of the summit, Congressman Larson released the following statement:"Today's summit provided an opportunity for the small business community to speak directly to the financial institutions and lending organizations, discuss their issues, and receive important business resources. I believe it was important for the invited guests to hear the stories from Main Street about the challenges facing our small businesses on an everyday basis."The concerns and the stories of struggle described by the small business owners are not isolated to Hartford, but are experienced by small businesses across the state and our nation. "Our small businesses need assistance, and it's time to answer the call and work toward making a difference to help sustain our communities."Congressman Larson recognizes the important role small businesses have in shaping the economic and social landscape of our communities. He remains committed to helping small businesses obtain the sought after resources and guidance. Congressman Larson's small business guide is available on his website at www.larson.house.gov or by contacting his Hartford District office at 860-278-8888Below is a list of organizations that attended today's small business forum at the Rajun Cajun Restaurant:Small Business Administration-New England Region Community Economic Development Fund Greater Hartford African American Alliance Hartford Economic Development Corporation Connecticut Bank & Trust Webster Bank People's Bank Bank of America Connecticut Bankers Association Connecticut Small Business Development Center The Entrepreneurial Center Women's Business Center Center for Professional Development Spanish American Merchants Association Service Corps of Retired Executives ###
01.06.2010	For Immediate Release: January 6, 2010 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON STATEMENT ON DODD RETIREMENT Praises distinguished service to CT and the nation Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on Senator Chris Dodd’s (D-CT) decision not to run for re-election. “First of all, I respect Senator Chris Dodd's decision and the comfort it brings to him and his family. I would like to commend Senator Dodd for a lifetime of public service to the state of Connecticut and our nation. He has spent the last 30 years representing the people of Connecticut, and has consistently done tough work with style and grace. I believe we may not truly appreciate what an asset Senator Dodd has been for years to come, but we are all better off because of his service to his country, and the kind of person he is. He is a rare breed of politician in Washington who develops relationships across the aisle built on trust and mutual respect. “Senator Dodd has demonstrated that even during difficult times he is willing to roll up his sleeves and work hard on behalf of the American people. He leaves behind a long list of historic legislative accomplishments that have changed this nation. "While today is a sad day for me, personally, and a great loss for the state of Connecticut, I am happy for Chris, Jackie, Christina, Grace and the entire Dodd family. Most importantly, we pause today to thank Senator Dodd for a job well done." ###
12.29.2009	Contact: Paul Mounds 860-539-4924 Congressman Larson to Host a Summit for Small Business Owners in Hartford Next Week Hartford, CT- On Wednesday, January 6th from 9:00AM-10:30AM at the Rajun Cajun Restaurant in Hartford, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host a Small Business Summit to provide resources to local business owners. Joining Congressman Larson at the meeting will be representatives of the U.S Small Business Administration, and local business financing and lending organizations to speak about resources available for small business. During these tough economic times, our community businesses are facing difficulties in securing the necessary resources to grow and expand. Congressman Larson recognizes the important role small businesses have in shaping the economic and social landscape of our communities. He is committed to helping small businesses obtain the resources and guidance to endure and recover in our current economy. Congressman Larson encourages individuals that are currently facing challenges accessing credit to sustain, grow, or start a business to attend. For more information, please contact Congressman Larson’s Hartford Office at 860-278-8888. What: Small Business Summit Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) U.S. Small Business Administration Local Business Financing and Lending Organizations When: Wednesday, January 6th 9:00AM-10:30AM Where: Rajun Cajun Restaurant 2790 Main Street Hartford, CT ###
12.22.2009	For Immediate Release: Tuesday, December 22, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Announces Over $10 Million in Federal Funding to Invest in Hartford’s Future Funds Directed to Support Programs to Address Economic, Social, and Health Issues throughout the City. Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced at a press conference that he helped secured over $10 million dollars in federal funding to support organizations and projects based in Hartford. In all, 17 programs will receive a total of $10,071,000 in federal funding to support Hartford based programs. The funding was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 and was signed into law last week by President Obama. “In this year alone, over $100 million dollars of Recovery Act has been directed to the capital city to enhance public safety, improve health services, and transform the economic landscape of the city,” said Congressman Larson. "The funding I’m announcing today, more than $10 million dollars, builds on the success of the Recovery Act by providing targeted investments to programs and organizations essential to the growth of Hartford and its citizens.” “Everyone knows a person or family hard hit by our nation’s current economic downturn. Strategic funding to address the economic and social perils currently facing our communities is needed now more than ever.” Examples of programs to receive funding include the Hartford Police Department’s Truancy Program that will address at-risk youth issues, and organizations like Mercy Housing who will renovate a building that will provide shelter and transitional services to the homeless. “I support all that is great in Hartford and I am confident these funds will truly play a role in helping the community and its residents move forward. These funds will support public safety, health care, education, and infrastructure and will strengthen Hartford now and help it set the course for a better and brighter future,” said Larson. Larson was joined at the announcement by organizations receiving funding including the Hartford Police Department, Hartford Housing Authority, Connecticut Children Medical Center, Capital Workforce Partners, and state and local elected officials. Programs in Hartford that will receive funding in this legislation include: Boys and Girls Club of Hartford $600,000 Establishment of a new site in SAND Community Center This project will establish a new Boys and Girls Club presence in a particularly distressed area of Hartford. The partnership of this nationally acclaimed organization with the SAND Community Center is a centerpiece of efforts to decrease neighborhood violence and ensure an adequate education experience for Hartford youths. Hartford Housing Authority $500,000 Renovation of the Nelton Court Project This funding will help create and build affordable housing for Hartford residents in the city’s North End. Mercy Housing $500,000 Renovations of Homeless and Transitional Shelter This project will restore the 200 year-old landmark St. Elizabeth House, a historical part of downtown Hartford. The needed renovations to the facility will bring the masonry building up to code and make it usable for homeless and transitional services. Hartford Police Department $ 300,000 Truancy Reduction Program This program will improve school attendance and reduce youth violence by continuously collecting and monitoring school attendance data, intervening when attendance problems exist, and increasing youth-oriented field operations. Hartford Behavioral Health $300,000 Stump the Violence Program The funding would be used to the expand the Stump the Violence Youth Leadership program, which provides leadership training and peer counseling to Hartford youth in order to reduce school dropout rates, youth violence, and underage drinking. Governors Prevention Partnership $550,000 Prevention Initiative for At-Risk Youth The Governor’s Prevention Partnership tries to reduce youth crime rates and promote public safety by providing support for at-risk youth. Federal funding will allow them to enhance their mentoring programs to prevent underage drinking. Klingberg Family Centers $400,000 Child Abuse Programming The Klingberg family centers hopes to provide an array of child welfare assistance to families affected by abuse in Hartford. Programs will include psychiatric and psychotherapeutic services to children who have suffered physical and sexual abuse. Bushnell Center for Performing Arts $100,000 The PARTNERS program The Bushnell Center’s K-12 arts-in-education program opens pathways to learning through the arts for students who struggle in traditional classroom settings. CT Children’s Medical Center $325,000 Clinical Care Center for Cancer and Blood Disorder Funding for the Children’s Medical Center will go to build a new state-of-the art Clinical Care Center to treat children with cancer and blood disease. The center, when complete, will create an optimal family-centered, multidisciplinary setting in which to treat children. Hartford Hospital $325,000 Stroke/Vascular Disease Care Initiative Hartford Hospital is a recognized leader in the treatment of stroke and vascular disease, the number one cause of death for people over 65. To maintain that status, create local jobs and improve care for critical patients, funding for the hospital would help construct a new neuro-interventional radiology suite. These suites provide technologically advanced care for patients suffering acute stroke. St. Joseph’s College $175,000 School of Pharmacy Saint Joseph College’s school of pharmacy will expand professional and entry level job opportunities in Connecticut by training students for jobs that will stay in our communities. When the school opens in 2010 it will the opportunity for students to build a successful and rewarding career in the health care industry. Capital Workforce Partners $300,000 Young Parents Program Young families, where parents are under 25 years old, have a greater chance of falling into poverty and relying on state services than the rest of the population. The Young Parents Program helps transition and train parents for more productive and successful careers. Funding this program will help relieve the costs of poverty on our state budget and give these families the promise of a bright future. UCONN – School of Law $300,000 Energy/Environmental Law Program The University of Connecticut establishes a Center for Energy and Environmental Law to prepare our attorneys to navigate the complicated legal workings that changes in the energy industry. The source of our energy and development of alternative energies is one of the most important economic issues we will face in the future. Connecticut Science Center $500,000 Fuel Cell Installation and Educational Presentation This project will help make the Connecticut Science Center part of our clean energy economy by providing it with the resources it needs to be a certified LEED building and to teach Connecticut’s students about the potential of energy efficient technologies. Harriet Beecher Stowe House Archival Protection and Restoration $150,000 Connecticut’s rich historical record is one of our greatest treasures. This funding will preserve the home and historical collections of Harriet Beecher Stowe, which contains over 200,000 period artifacts and documents. The City of Hartford $800,000 Hartford Public Safety Complex To coordinate the work of Hartford’s first responders during an emergency, this project will create an emergency operation center within the city's new public safety complex. This complex will house Hartford’s police, fire, and emergency response under one roof. This center will serve as a command post for regional emergencies. Connecticut Department of Transportation $3,896,000 Springfield New Haven Rail Line This funding will support rail improvements on the New Haven/Hartford/Springfield rail line. ###
12.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 16, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON DEFENSE PRIORITIES APPROVED BY CONGRESS Funding will protect threatened local jobs Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, announced today that the House of Representatives approved funding for his defense project priorities, worth more than $28 million, that will help retain and create jobs in our area while protecting our homeland and troops abroad. The projects are part of the Defense Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2010. “Our area is a leader in defense innovation and manufacturing. These projects leverage our highly skilled work force to build and develop products that will keep this nation safe and protect our troops on and off the battlefield,” said Congressman Larson. The legislation included funding to build more than 50 aircraft engines that should protect threatened highly skilled manufacturing jobs at local Pratt and Whitney. Specifically it includes 40 new C-17 engines, six to eight new F-16 engines and eight new E-8 JSTAR engines – all valued at more than $450 million. The legislation also includes the following local projects: Regenerative Fuel Cell Back-up Power -- $1.36 million to develop a stationary renewable hydrogen cell energy source that decreases the carbon footprint of our military and creates green jobs in one of our state’s fastest growing sectors. The Advanced Affordable Turbine Engine Program -- $4 million to build the next generation of helicopter engines to sustain jobs in Connecticut’s manufacturing sector, and reduce the cost of maintenance to American taxpayers over the life of the helicopters. The Next Gen Precision Airdrop System -- $2 million to develop technology to improve the precision deliveries and ensure the safety of our troops by reducing their exposure in difficult terrain. Universal Control for Helicopters -- $7.2 million to develop new hardware and controls for the Army’s fleet of helicopters that will enhance the reliability and mission capability of aircraft at the same time it saves American taxpayers up to 30%. Laser Optimization Remote Lighting Systems -- $2 million towards a joint initiative of local universities, community colleges and Connecticut companies to develop the use of lasers as a light source on U.S. Navy ships. The project will help the Navy save on energy costs and develop new laser technologies for use in other sectors. Unmanned Hybrid Projectiles -- $2.4 million for the University of Hartford and its manufacturing partners in the private and public sector to work with the Army to develop a key unmanned technology that will keep our soldiers out of harm’s way and reduce unnecessary civilian casualties. X-49A Envelope Expansion Mods -- $3.6 million for the testing of a new innovative technology to increase the speed, maneuverability and survivability of military crew beyond that of conventional military helicopters. Foil Bearing Supported UAV Engines -- $800,000 for a project that will utilize foil bearings to increase the life of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle’s (UAV) engine. By correcting the issues of the short life of UAV engines, the project will greatly increase system reliability while decreasing overall costs to American taxpayers. Legacy Aerospace Gear Drive Re-Engineering Initiative -- $2 million for a project that will create jobs for highly skilled workers by developing technology to cost-effectively reengineer and manufacture parts to support our Army’s aging fleet of helicopters. The modernization of the fleet of legacy helicopters will protect the men and women who defend our nation and ensure the highest vehicle performance for the U.S. Army. Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Resupply -- $3.2 million to increase the reliability of resupply mission and the overall safety of our troops on the ground. The funding will be used to develop an unmanned helicopter that can deliver supplies to our armed forces in areas complicated by hostile military and environmental conditions. The Defense Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2010 keeps our commitment to our troops and their families during this time of war, making sure they are cared for on the battlefield and when they return home. We provide a 3.4% pay raise for our military, and continue the payment of $500 a month for any service-member held under stop-loss. To keep our men and women in uniform and their families healthy on and off the field we invest more than $29 billion in the Defense Health Program and boost funding to support our military families with programs like child care, job training for spouses, and expanded counseling services. We also provide our military with the weapons and equipment they need to fight the wars of today and tomorrow. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for passage and the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.11.2009	For Immediate Release: December 11, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-888 Larson: House Approves Funding To Create a New Nursing Program in Litchfield County Washington, D.C. – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, announces that the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that invests $350,000 to create a new nursing program at Northwestern Connecticut Community College in Winsted. This funding is vital to addressing our state’s severe nursing shortage while giving providing local residents with the training they need to take advantage of the job opportunities that will help rebuild our economy. By 2020, Connecticut will have the second worst nursing shortage in the nation, with the largest shortage occurring in Litchfield County where there is currently no degree or diploma nursing program. “In the next ten years, it is estimated Litchfield County's nursing vacancy rate will be double the statewide average. This new nursing program will help close the nursing gap in Litchfield County and impede the debilitating economic and social toll this nursing shortage would have to the overall region,” said Congressman Larson. “I am proud to support this project and the efforts of President Douglass ,the staff of NCCC, members of the Connecticut General Assembly and the residents of the Northwest Corner for making this nursing program a reality.” Congressman Larson and his staff met and worked with Northwestern Connecticut Community College’s President Barbara Douglass over the past two years on this initiative. Earlier this year, the Connecticut General Assembly passed legislation signed into law that directs the Board of Trustees of Connecticut’s Community-Technical Colleges to seek federal funds to create the sixth nursing program among the State’s twelve community colleges. “This program will single-handily reshape the economic and health care landscape in Winsted and in Northwestern Connecticut,” said Larson. The funding was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. The legislation also increased funding for infrastructure, health and education to immediately create jobs while investing in our local communities and workforce for the long term. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for final passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.10.2009	For Immediate Release: December 10, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson’s Local Priorities in Arts, Education, and Health Care Pass the House Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the House of Representatives passed legislation to provide over $1.7 million in funding to support local projects in education, health care, and the arts. The funding was provided in broad legislation that invests in the growth of our economy, provides educational opportunities to our youth and adults, and enhances the overall health of our communities. “In order to stimulate our economy, we must make targeted investments in projects that will create jobs, help train the workforce of the future, and improve the health services of our community. The legislation passed by Congress today will provide these great organizations and institutions in our region with the tools to champion the causes that sustain economic growth and well-being of our communities,” said Congressman Larson. The programs that will receive funding in this legislation include: The Bushnell Center for the Performing Arts- $100,000 The Bushnell Center’s K-12 arts-in-education program opens pathways to learning through the arts for students who struggle in traditional classroom settings. This program will help ensure that our underserved children don’t miss out on that key piece of their education. Capital Workforce Partners - Young Parents Program- $300,000 Young families, where parents are under 25 years old, have a greater chance of falling into poverty and relying on state services than the rest of the population. With dwindling state resources to support these young families, the Young Parents Program helps transition and train parents for more productive and successful careers. Funding this program will help relieve the costs of poverty on our state budget and give these families the promise of good careers and a brighter future. Connecticut Children's Medical Center-$325,000 Funding for the Children’s Medical Center will go to build a new state-of-the art Clinical Care Center to treat children with cancer and blood disease. The center, when complete, will create an optimal family-centered, multidisciplinary setting in which to treat our kids. Goodwin College- $175,000 Combining two of the most important issues of the day, the economy and the environment, this funding would help Goodwin College develop an undergraduate level environmental studies program. Students in the program will go on to pursue jobs in areas that will help preserve our environment and grow our local economy. Jobs in the environmental sciences are expected to grow 25% by 2016. Hartford Hospital-$325,000 Hartford Hospital is a recognized leader in the treatment of stroke and vascular disease. To maintain that status, create local jobs and improve care for critical patients, funding for the hospital would help construct a new neuro-interventional radiology suite to serve patients suffering from an acute stroke. Saint Joseph College-$175,000 Saint Joseph College’s school of pharmacy will expand professional and entry level job opportunities in Connecticut by training students for local jobs. When the school opens in Downtown Hartford in 2010, it will give its population of largely minority, female and first generation college students the opportunity to build a successful and rewarding career in the health care industry. University of Connecticut School of Law-$365,000 The University of Connecticut will use this funding to establish a Center for Energy and Environmental Law to prepare our attorneys to navigate the complicated legal workings that changes in the energy industry are likely to create. The source of our energy and development of alternative energies is one of the most important economic issues our state and our nation faces. These projects were included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. The legislation also increased funding for infrastructure, health and education to immediately create jobs while investing in our local communities and workforce for the long term. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for final passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.10.2009	For Immediate Release: December 10, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 House Passes Larson’s Public Safety Priority for South Windsor Washington D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation that included $350,000 for the South Windsor Police Department to improve their emergency response communication systems. The funding is part of broader legislation that invests in our national public safety priorities and stimulates our economy through job creation. “Public safety is essential to the overall well being of our towns. This smart and much needed investment will greatly upgrade South Windsor’s communications system leading to improved response time. Overall, the funding will help keep the residents of South Windsor and surrounding towns safe,” said Congressman Larson. This funding will help first responders get to the scene of emergencies faster by replacing the current local police communications system with a more advanced digital radio system. The Fire, EMS and Police Departments will be able coordinate their efforts and act quickly to manage local emergencies. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson met with South Windsor officials to discuss the project and its importance to the community. This project was included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for final passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.10.2009	For Immediate Release: December 10, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Secures Funding To Support Economic Development in East Hartford Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the House of Representatives approved funding that will spur economic development and small business growth in East Hartford. The House approved $400,000 in federal funding to improve the infrastructure of the Park Avenue commercial area and $250,000 for the Community Economic Development Fund to support the expansion of their small business services into East Hartford. The funding comes as part of broader legislation to support local economic development and create good-paying American jobs. “Creating jobs and growing our economy is my top priority. These projects will ensure economic stability and job growth in East Hartford and the Greater Hartford region,” said Congressman Larson. Funding for the Park Avenue Redevelopment project will be used to develop a master design plan focused on enhancing the infrastructure to make the area attractive and inviting to businesses. The Park Avenue commercial area was previously used as a warehouse, food, and manufacturing center, however due to major infrastructure obstacles, the area and the warehouse facilities are unfeasible locations for prospective businesses in its current state. The area is being targeted as a location for green and high technology companies. “Park Avenue has the infrastructure and foundation where an investment of this sort will spur economic development,” said Larson. The Meriden-based Community Economic Development Fund will expand their successful Small Business Institute into East Hartford. The funding will allow them to offer local businesses training programs and provide individualized assistance to serve the economic needs of small businesses within the town. “Small businesses are truly the engine of job creation in our economy. The Community Economic Development Fund and its Small Business Institute has helped small businesses throughout the state secure the necessary funding and obtain training to sustain in our weathering economy.” These projects were included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. We increased funding for infrastructure, health and education to immediately create jobs while investing in our local communities and workforce for the long term. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for final passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.10.2009	For Immediate Release: December 10, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson’s Public Safety Priority for Torrington Passes the House Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the House of Representatives passed legislation that included $850,000 in funding for the Torrington Police Department to upgrade their emergency response communication systems. Included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010, the funding is one of many targeted investments in the legislation that invests in rebuilding our economy and securing the public’s safety. “This funding will allow the city of Torrington to upgrade their communications system, improve response time, and more importantly, ensure the overall safety of the city’s residents,” said Congressman Larson. The project will upgrade and expand the police department’s existing communications center. This will allow the center to accommodate more calls for service and maintain cooperation with regional law enforcement, fire, emergency response, and public safety agencies. Improvements to the city’s communications system will help Torrington fulfill their long term goal of serving as a regional emergency and dispatch center for Northwestern Connecticut and Litchfield County. Earlier this year, Larson met with Torrington Mayor Ryan Bingham to discuss the project and its importance to the community. The legislation will now go to the United States Senate for consideration, and then to the White House for the President’s signature. ###
12.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 10, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON HOUSING AND EDUCATIONAL PRIORITIES APPROVED BY CONGRESS Washington, DC -- Today, the House of Representatives approved funding requested by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) for critical housing and social services projects in the Hartford area at the Hartford Housing Authority, Mercy House and Shelter Corporation and the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Hartford. With the current economic downturn, this funding and support is more important than ever. The funding would allow for the renovation and revitalization of two local low-income housing facilities as well as the development of educational programs and facilities in distressed neighborhoods. The projects come as part of a broader bill that will help enact our long term economic strategy to provide short term help to the neediest Americans and long term solutions to help improve our economy and give our youth the opportunity to succeed. The legislation will now go on to the Senate for passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. Congressman Larson said, “These projects are necessary now more than ever to help our neighbors who have been hit hardest by the economic downturn by providing them with a place to live now and in the long run by giving their kids the tools to succeed in the future.” The Boys and Girls Club of Hartford will receive $600,000 to establish a new presence in Hartford with a focus on decreasing neighborhood violence and giving local children new personalized educational opportunities. The funding would allow the Boys and Girls Club to renovate space for a headquarters within the SAND Community Center and give them support to expand their educational services during after-school hours. The Hartford Housing Authority will receive $500,000 to help provide housing for those at risk of losing theirs by attracting new tenants into the apartments at Nelton Court. The complex, built in 1947, houses 90 families in units described as “non-repairable” -- requiring extensive and costly upgrades to make them livable. The less expensive plan will demolish the entire complex and replace it with approximately 80 units and a community center. The Mercy House and Shelter Corporation will receive $500,000 to restore the 200 year-old landmark St. Elizabeth House to bring it up to code and make it usable for housing. “These organizations provide vital services to our neighborhood and can help pave a pathway for a more robust local economy, a brighter future for our youth and a better sense of community on our streets,” said Congressman Larson. These projects were included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. We increased funding for infrastructure, health and education to immediately create jobs while investing in our local communities and workforce for the long term. We also reaffirmed our commitment to our Veterans and military families. We looked closely at every line of our budget to cut and eliminate programs that weren’t working and reduce the deficit over the long term. ###
12.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 10, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON PRIORITIES TO CUT YOUTH VIOLENCE PASS THE HOUSE Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass legislation that includes Congressman John B. Larson’s (CT-01) key initiatives to combat youth violence in Connecticut. The legislation would bring more than $1 million to programs in the first district that reduce the number of youth involved in, hurt or killed by violent activities. It will now go on to the Senate for passage and then the White House for the President’s signature. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) said, “Homicide is the second leading cause of death for our nation’s youth age 10 to 14, and the leading cause of death for African-American youth of that age. The prevalence of youth violence is a reality that many of my constituents face each day and combating youth violence is one of my top priorities. I believe our students should feel safe going to school and I would like to see every Connecticut child grow up free from the oppression of violence so that they may reach their full potential. I am proud to support these programs that work to reduce the incidence of youth violence in our community.” The programs that will receive funding in this legislation include: The Hartford Truancy Reduction Program will receive $300,000 to improve school attendance and reduce youth violence by continuously collecting and monitoring school attendance data and intervening when attendance problems exist. The Governor’s Prevention Partnership will receive $550,000 to reduce youth crime rates and promote public safety by providing support for at-risk youth through mentoring programs. Stump the Violence will receive $300,000 to provide leadership training and peer counseling to local youth to reduce school dropout rates, youth violence and underage drinking. Klingberg Family Centers will receive $525,000 to break the cycle of violence by providing an array of child welfare assistance to families affected by abuse including psychiatric services and clinical evaluations. “Keeping the public safe is one of my most important responsibilities as an elected official,” said Congressman Larson. “This legislation will give our community more of the tools we need to protect our kids and our communities.” These projects were included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010 that makes targeted investments in areas that will rebuild our economy and keep our country safe. We increased funding for infrastructure, health and education to immediately create jobs while investing in our local communities and workforce for the long term. We also reaffirmed our commitment to our Veterans and military families. We looked closely at every line of our budget to cut and eliminate programs that weren’t working and reduce the deficit over the long term. ###
12.09.2009	Left To Right( Alfreda Turner, CEO and President of Charter Oak Health Center, Anna B. Turner, Mother of Alfreda Turner, Congressman Larson, and Janelle Bryan, Grants Administrator of Charter Oak Health Center) A portrait of late Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm of New York in background was unveiled in the U.S. Capitol this year to mark the 40th anniversary of her swearing-in as a Member of Congress For Immediate Release: December 9, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/(860)995-8262 Larson Meets with Local Resident as President Obama Announces Over $16 Million in Recovery Act Funding to Hartford-Based Community Health Centers Alfreda Turner of Charter Oak Health Center was Invited to White House for Today's Announcement Washington, DC- Today, Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, joined President Barack Obama in announcing significant American Recovery and Reinvestment Act grants for two Hartford community health centers. Charter Oak Health Center and Community Health Services will receive 10 million dollars and 6.1 million dollars respectively to support new construction at the health centers. Congressman Larson supported both of the grants. Alfreda Turner, CEO and President of Charter Oak Health Center, will join President Obama at the White House today for a ceremony to celebrate the announcement of Recovery Act grants to Community Health Centers across the nation. Congressman Larson said, "Alfreda Turner and her staff at Charter Oak Health Center do the tough work on the ground to make our state and our nation healthier. It was heartfelt and fitting that President Obama invited Alfreda to the White House to take part in this historic announcement. Community health centers play a vital role in providing essential health services to the underserved residents in the Greater Hartford region. “Charter Oak Health Center is so gratefully to President Obama and the congressional support provided by Congressman Larson and his colleagues for making this day possible. This funding will truly make a difference in improving the overall access to services and quality of care offered to Hartford residents. We know this grant will truly make a difference in our communities,” said Alfreda Turner. “The fact that President Obama and his administration chose these two Hartford-based health centers to receive this funding is testament to the great and innovative work they do,” said Congressman Larson. “The Recovery Act has made targeted investments in communities around Connecticut and across the nation to create good-paying jobs and rebuild our economy on sound footing" ###
12.09.2009	December 9, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson's Staff to Hold Office Hours in Southington HARTFORD, CT - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s (CT-01) staff will hold District Office hours at the Southington Library and Museum on Tuesday, December 15th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. A representative from Congressman Larson’s office will be available during this time to meet with constituents who have questions or concerns related to federal government programs and agencies. Please contact Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 if you have any questions. Who- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s District Office Staff When- Tuesday, December 15th, 2009 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Where-Southington Library and Barnes Museum 85 N Main St Southington, CT 06489 ###
12.09.2009	For Immediate Release: December 9, 2009 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 HOUSE APPROVES LARSON’S NATURAL GAS LEGISLATION Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will encourage America’s businesses to make the transition to clean American energy. The legislation, proposed by Congressman John B. Larson, (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, will extend a tax credit on natural gas. Congressman Larson said, “natural gas is a vital part of our transition to cleaner American energy. By encouraging businesses to spend their money on a fuel found in abundance here in America, we are making our economy and our homeland more secure and reducing our reliance on foreign energy.” The legislation is part of a broader plan by businessman T. Boone Pickens to transition more of America’s energy consumption to our own natural gas. Natural gas is an abundant energy in the United States, with 98% of the natural gas we consume being produced in North America. We have more than 100 years of natural gas reserves in the United States. Natural gas is also twice as clean as coal, so it offers significant environmental benefits. The boost to the natural gas industry this legislation provides could also create thousands of good-paying jobs that cannot be outsourced overseas. More than 1 million Americans are already employed by natural gas companies and the entire U.S. natural gas industry supports nearly 3 million jobs. “Creating jobs is my top priority right now. With every piece of legislation we vote on, we must consider what impact it will have on the jobs market. That is why I am so proud to support this legislation that will create green jobs immediately and help transition us off of foreign energy in the long run,” said Larson. ###
12.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 8, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT’S JOBS SPEECH Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech on job creation today. “President Obama made clear today that he is standing with House Democrats as we invest in the American people and put middle class Americans back to work. We know families are hurting not just from the recent recession, but from decades of an economy that allowed the wealthiest to prosper but squeezed the middle class between rising costs for health care, education and other basic necessities and stagnant wages. By investing in small businesses, the engines of job growth, and our local communities, we will continue to rebuild the economy so that it puts working families first. “A jobless recovery is not acceptable, and we will do everything we can to create good-paying American jobs and put people back to work. I am glad President Obama agrees with proposals set forth by House Democrats to use returning TARP funds to pay for job creation legislation. It is time for Wall Street to help rebuild Main Street. We will take steps in the coming weeks to make sure that happens.” ###
12.03.2009	December 3, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson and his Youth Advisory Cabinet to Participate in Public Hearing Hosted by the CT General Assembly’s Task Force on Children in the Recession Hearing Begins Saturday at 10:00AM at Legislative Office Building, 10-11 a.m. Reserved for Youth Testimony Hartford, CT- Saturday, December 5th at the Legislative Office Building, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson and his First Congressional Youth Cabinet will join Connecticut Speaker of the House Christopher Donovan and the Connecticut General Assembly Task Force on Children in the Recession for their first of five public hearings entitled “How is the Recession Affecting Your Family”. Youth Cabinet Member Calvin Brown of Bristol Eastern High School will provide an opening statement on behalf of the Youth Cabinet at the hearing and then introduce Congressman Larson for remarks. Speaker Donovan created the Task Force on Children in the Recession to identify ways of meeting the needs of Connecticut's youngest and most vulnerable citizens during our state’s current economic crisis. Members of Larson’s Youth Cabinet assisted in the planning and setup of the hearing with Speaker Donovan’s office and the Connecticut Commission on Children. The First Congressional Youth Cabinet, the first youth advisory board of its kind in the nation, provides information and insight to Congressman Larson on issues facing young Americans across the nation. Introduced in February 2009, the cabinet was created to foster a stronger relationship between the young people of the district and their government officials by providing them a unique prospectus and voice on public service issues facing youth today. During the public hearing, Youth Cabinet members will serve on the dais with Task Force members and assist in asking questions to individuals and organizations testifying. In addition, they will serve as “Comfort Monitors” to other children and youth by explaining the public hearing process and assist in decreasing uneasiness or apprehension of testifying in front of adults. What: Public Hearing on “How is the Recession Affecting Your Family” Who: Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) 1st Congressional District Youth Cabinet Connecticut Speaker of the House Christopher Donovan Task Force on Children in the Recession When: Saturday December 5th 10AM Where: Legislative Office Building, Room 2C 300 Capitol Avenue, Hartford, CT Of Note: • 10-11 a.m. is reserved for youth testimony; general public testimony will follow. • All testimony will be limited to 3 minutes per speaker.
12.03.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 3, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO HELP COMMUNITY COLLEGES TRAIN WORKERS, WEATHER DIFFICULT ECONOMIC TIMES Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced legislation today that will help community colleges weather these difficult economic times while providing the training and education our students need to be part of the workforce of the future. Right now, community colleges are facing a perfect storm: increasing enrollments as more Americans turn to them to improve their jobs skills and substantial state budget cuts because of the economic downturn. The Community College Emergency Stabilization Fund (CCESF) will provide one-time, emergency funding to our community colleges to help them hire staff and expand the services they offer to our students. “I truly believe that our nation’s community colleges can be the birthplace of our economic recovery,” said Congressman Larson. “They offer great opportunities for students in all phases of life to get the training and education they need to excel. That is why it is more important now than ever that we provide community colleges with the support they need to continue to fulfill their mission during these difficult economic times.” According to the American Association of Community Colleges, enrollment for 2009 is already 10% above 2008 levels. At the same time, 32 states have had to cut the budgets of their public colleges. In Connecticut, local community colleges saw their enrollment increase more than 10% over last year’s enrollment while they lost nearly 200 employees. The CCESF will immediately create jobs at community colleges around the country by providing $700 million in emergency funding for hiring faculty and other staff. In order to target funding to areas hit hardest by the economic downturn, the level of funding to each state will be determined by their increase in unemployment. States would then distribute the funds to their local community colleges based on total enrollment, growth in enrollment and the unemployment levels in the immediate area. To make sure states don’t take advantage of these funds to further cut their own funding of community colleges, the legislation will also requires that states maintain the same level of funding they provided in the previous year and report back on the number of additional staff hired or maintained and students served because of the additional funding. “The American people have told us that their number one concern right now is the loss of jobs during these trying economic times. The Community College Emergency Stabilization Fund attacks that issue in two ways,” said Congressman Larson. “First it will create jobs immediately for teachers, career counselors, and other staff at community colleges that receive the funding. And second, it will help train our workforce to take advantage of the job opportunities in new and emerging fields that come out of our economic recovery.” CCESF will also set aside $50 million for a competitive grant program for career and technical colleges to be run through the office of the Secretary of Education. The legislation is supported by the Association of Community College Trustees and the American Association of Community Colleges. Congressman Larson has a strong track record of working to support and expand this nation’s community colleges. He has previously introduced legislation, which was included in the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, that will make community colleges a hub of technology training in their areas. That bill also created a new competitive grant program for community colleges to improve their instruction and student services and provided $20.4 million to Connecticut’s community colleges to help modernize and update their facilities. ###
12.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 1, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 CONGRESSMAN LARSON STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT OBAMA’S AFGHANISTAN SPEECH Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after President Obama’s speech on the path forward in Afghanistan and Pakistan. “I agree with the President’s goal to bring our troops home in 18 months. I commend him for laying out the end game and leveling with our troops and the American and Afghan people. I remain skeptical on the impact of a troop surge and the commitment of the strategic partners in the region to achieve the President’s objectives. I will continue to review the plan and all of its implications, including how it is paid for.”
12.01.2009	December 1, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson's Staff to Hold Office Hours in Bloomfield HARTFORD, CT - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s (CT-01) staff will hold District Satellite Office hours at the Prosser Public Library in Bloomfield on Thursday, December 3, 2009 from 10:30 AM to 12:30 PM. A representative from Congressman Larson’s office will be available during this time to meet with constituents who have questions or concerns related to federal government programs and agencies. Please contact Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 if you have any questions. Who- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s District Office Staff When- Thursday, December 3, 2009 from 10:30 AM to 12:30 PM. Where- Prosser Public Library 1 Tunxis Avenue Bloomfield, CT 06002 ###
11.23.2009	For Immediate Release: November 23, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: Local Green Energy Company To Receive Recovery Act Funding Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that a local small business, Rotating Composite Technologies, LLC of Kensington, will receive $149,824 in Recovery Act funding to support the development of an innovative green energy source from water. Competitive with the power production of coal, the water turbine power system produced by the company will supply constant electrical power when installed in rivers or ocean currents. “Connecticut is home to small businesses, such as Rotating Composite Technologies, driving our nation’s development and innovation in green energy. This funding and the technology it supports can create hundreds of green jobs in the state while helping our nation achieve energy independence,” said Congressman Larson. Rotating Composite Technologies, LCC, through a special fast-track process with an emphasis on near-term commercialization and job creation, was one of 117 companies chosen from a competitive pool for the grant. Based on how successful and market ready the water turbine power system is, Rotating Composite Technologies will be eligible for a second round of Department of Energy grants in the summer of 2010. ###
11.20.2009	November 20, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds (860) 278-8888 Congressman Larson to Host a Public Forum on Women’s Health Issues in Hartford Hartford, CT- Tuesday, November 24th from 8am-9:30am at the Hartford Hilton, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, will host a public forum with leaders from across Connecticut to discuss women’s health care issues and the health care reform legislation. Currently, women often face higher health costs than men and multiple other barriers to obtain health insurance. Congressman Larson, along with leading women in the field of health care in Connecticut, will discuss women’s health care needs and the importance of reforming the current health care system. The public forum is open to the public. For more information on the forum, please contact Congressman Larson’s District Office at 860-278-8888. What: Women’s Health Care Forum “A Call to Action” Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Teresa C. Younger-Executive Director, Permanent Commission on the Status of Women Judith Stein- Attorney/Executive Director, Center for Medicare Advocacy Ellen Andrews-Executive Director, Connecticut Health Policy Project/Consumer Health Network When: Tuesday, November 24th 8am-9:30am Where: Hartford Hilton Hartford Commons Room 315 Trumbull Street Hartford, CT 06103
11.19.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 19, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: DEMS VOTE TO PROTECT SENIORS’ ACCESS TO DOCTORS Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the passage of the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act. “The legislation the House passed today tells America’s seniors loud and clear that we are behind them and working hard to protect their access to their doctors and nurses. By permanently fixing a scheduled cut to Medicare reimbursement rates we are helping to ensure that health care providers around the country don’t drop their Medicare patients and putting an end to a budgeting gimmick designed to make the long-term deficit appear smaller. This legislation compliments the historic health insurance reform bill we passed earlier this month that will lower premiums, extend the solvency of Medicare by five years, improve preventive and primary care for seniors, and close the “donut hole” drug coverage gap. “We also made a bold statement about fiscal responsibility by attaching Pay-as-You-Go legislation to this bill as it moves to the Senate. It was Pay-Go policies that led our nation from record deficits to record surpluses during the Clinton Administration before they were abandoned by a Republican Congress and President Bush. I believe those same principles are vital restoring our nation’s fiscal health now.” ###
11.18.2009	For Immediate Release: November 18, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson: Co-Opportunity of Hartford To Receive Recovery Act Funding To Support Workforce Training Program Washington, DC- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis in announcing that Co-Opportunity, Inc of Hartford will receive $69,933 in Recovery Act funding to create new green-industry jobs through the YouthBuild Hartford program. The YouthBuild program provides young adults, aged 16-24, from low income backgrounds the ability to work toward their high school diploma or GED while learning critical on the job construction skills. This grant will allow Youthbuild Hartford to train students to preserve reusable materials during the deconstruction of a site. “The Recovery Act has promoted economic stabilization for our state and our nation through job creation and training opportunities particularly in new green industries. This funding will support that mission by providing young adults in the Youthbuild program an opportunity to acquire the skills they need to join the workforce of the future,” said Congressman Larson. “Youthbuild Hartford with Co-Opportunity’s leadership, is truly a successful job training and leadership development program serving the Greater Hartford community.” The grant funding, provided through the Recovery Act’s Green Capacity Building Grant Program, will train 20 Youthbuild Hartford students as well as certify Youthbuild Hartford instructors to be licensed deconstruction trainers. These efforts will lead program participants to future job placements. In the last 8 years, 350 people have graduated from Co-opportunity’s YouthBuild Hartford program with 60% of trainees receiving their GED, and 87% of graduates securing jobs or pursuing higher education within 3 months of graduation. Along with Co-Opportunity, key partners in the Youthbuild program include the Connecticut Department of Economic and Community Development, Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, and Connecticut Department of Labor Office of Workforce Competiveness. ###
11.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 18, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON VOTES TO BOOST RESOURCES FOR FIRE FIGHTERS Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, voted to provide our nation’s firefighters with the tools and resources they need to prevent and fight fires, and keep our communities safe. The Fire Grants Reauthorization Act invests in vital firefighter assistance programs that allow our local fire departments to provide training, purchase equipment and vehicles, and hire personnel. “Our firefighters and first responders put their lives on the line every day – they must have the best training and equipment at their disposal to keep our community safe,” said Congressman Larson. “Our state and local governments may be facing falling revenues and shrinking budgets, but they should never have to choose between adequately trained personnel and functioning equipment. This bill protects against that and provides critical funding to safeguard our homes, our neighborhoods and—first and foremost—our families.” In Congressman Larson’s own district these grants provided more than $1.7 million for fire trucks, safety equipment, training and fire station renovations this year. This bipartisan legislation authorizes a total of $2.2 billion a year in grants nationwide for local municipalities to upgrade crucial equipment and maintain adequate levels of personnel. It also makes it easier for local fire departments to access these critical funds by lowering matching requirements and modifying time commitments. Ever since the 9/11 terrorist attacks, fire departments and first responders across the country have been overstretched – taking on even more responsibilities to respond to possible terrorist attacks, as well as preventing and fighting fires. This legislation will give our fire departments the critical resources they need to address these threats. The bill has the support of the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the National Volunteer Fire Council, the National Fire Protection Association, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute. ### _________________________
11.18.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 17, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: MOMENTUM BUILDING IN DEM CAUCUS FOR JOBS PLAN Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement on Democratic plans to create jobs and grow the economy. “Last night at a meeting of the House Democratic Caucus it became clear that momentum is building amongst my colleagues towards new job creation legislation that rebuilds our economy in a way that puts Main Street – not Wall Street – first. There is no shortage of ideas and legislation on the table and we will carefully consider them all, but the time to act is now. One thing is certain; we cannot grow today’s economy on the back of our future economy. We will be fiscally responsible and build a foundation for long term economic growth, finding ways to pay for much of what we do. “It was taxpayers who rescued Wall Street. Now it is time for Wall Street to contribute to the growth of Main Street. That means using money returned to TARP to fund job creation programs. It means charging Wall Street a transaction tax on over-the-counter trades in the unregulated dark markets to pay for a transportation and jobs bill that will rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure while creating or saving 6 million jobs. I introduced the Transparent Markets Act (H.R. 3153) earlier this year that would do just that and, as the number of unemployed Americans has increased the need for that legislation is even greater now. “A jobless recovery is unacceptable. We cannot ask the American people to fund a Wall Street recovery when the benefits are not being passed on to communities and small businesses across the country and people are losing their jobs, homes and health care. Our efforts must be focused on jobs and people, not only the GDP and monetary policy.” ###
11.09.2009	For Immediate Release: November 9, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson: T. Boone Pickens Coming to Connecticut for a Town Hall Forum “I am proud to welcome T. Boone Pickens and his mission for an independent energy future of our nation to Connecticut” Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, made a major announcement concerning his upcoming town hall discussion on the economy and decreasing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil. Congressman Larson will be joined by T. Boone Pickens, energy pioneer and creator of the Pickens Plan, for a public forum at Goodwin College in East Hartford on Tuesday, November 24th from 4:00-5:30pm. “I am proud to welcome T. Boone Pickens and his mission for an independent energy future for our nation to Connecticut. Since the launch of the Pickens Plan, he has recruited millions of Americans to join in a goal that I completely support creating a new clean energy economy for America,” said Congressman Larson. “Connecticut is home to a thriving clean energy sector that will stimulate job growth throughout the state.” “It’s fitting we are hosting this forum at the River Campus of Goodwin College, a property that housed a now defunct oil terminal. Today, Goodwin College is one of the fastest growing educational institutions in the state.” The Pickens Plan focuses on reducing America's dependence on foreign oil and encourages the development of alternative energy sources like wind and natural gas. Since its inception over a year ago, T. Boone Pickens has recruited millions of American citzens, corporations and businesses, as well as political leaders to actively join in the mission. Congressman Larson, a member of the Select Committee for Energy Independence and Global Warming, is an original co-sponsor of the NAT GAS Act which is strongly supported by Mr. Pickens. The legislation will make domestic natural gas a more accessible alternative to imported oil while decreasing greenhouse gas emissions and urban pollution in vehicles. “I look forward to Mr. Pickens’ visit to East Hartford and I encourage any individual interested in setting a new course for our nation’s energy future to attend the forum on November 24th.” To RSVP or obtain further information about the town hall forum, please contact Congressman Larson’s office at 860-278-8888. What: Town Hall Forum on the Economy and Energy with T. Boone Pickens Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) T. Boone Pickens, Creator of the Pickens Plan When: Tuesday, November 24th 2009 4:00-5:30pm Where: Goodwin College Auditorium River Campus One Riverside Drive East Hartford, CT ###
11.08.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 8, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CALLS HOUSE VOTE ON HEALTH CARE REFORM “HISTORIC STEP” Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives voted to pass the Affordable Health Care for America Act, an historic health care reform bill that will provide quality, affordable health care for the American people. “This is a great triumph for the American people along the lines of the passage of Social Security and Medicare. Presidents from Teddy Roosevelt to Franklin Roosevelt to Harry Truman and Richard Nixon have tried and failed to turn the giant ship of this nation’s health care system around. “Today, we have taken an historic step towards making this needed reform a reality. For the first time in history this body has taken a vote in favor of providing quality, affordable health care for the American people. We are offering those with insurance the security and stability of knowing their health care can’t be taken away because they get too sick or have a pre-existing condition. It tells American families who don’t have insurance that they can choose a health plan that fits their needs. “This is a new day in America – one when no family faces financial ruin because someone gets sick, and no child goes untreated because their parents can’t afford to take them to the doctor. I am honored to have the opportunity to take this vote today and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take action on this important issue.” ###
11.07.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 7, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON STATEMENT ON HISTORIC HEALTH CARE DEBATE Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives during historic debate on America’s Affordable Health Choices Act. (As prepared for delivery.) “The growth of the nation cannot be achieved without caring for the health of all its citizens. 36 million Americans await our action on the House floor today. 36 million Americans watched as the fear-mongers stood on the steps of our Capitol this week, telling them to be afraid. They tried to spread the same fear in the struggle for Social Security and Medicare. It did not stop us then and it will not stop us now. “Today, we will put a stop to the fear and address the real threat, the real danger the American people face: the woman next to you on the train spreading the flu because she couldn’t afford to see a doctor; the little boy in the sandbox with your child whose parents couldn’t afford his vaccinations; and – if we’ve learned anything from the H1N1 epidemic – the billions of dollars these public health emergencies cost us. “On this historic day, this Congress will pass a bill that will improve the fiscal and physical health of the entire nation by improving the health of all our citizens. It is a statement of our values. It is testimony to how we care for our fellow citizens. It is at the very core of all that America stands for and why we came here to serve. “36 million Americans deserve nothing less!” ###
11.06.2009	LARSON: INFRASTRUCTURE JOBS PROGRAM VITAL TO ECONOMIC RECOVERY Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement in response to today’s unemployment numbers. “Today’s unemployment numbers reinforce what I’ve been saying for months. We must enact a comprehensive jobs program that puts the American people back to work and invests in our future economic strength. Although we are beginning to see signs of a turnaround in our economy, the unemployment numbers continue to be dismal. A jobless recovery is simply unacceptable to me. “This nation used to be a leader in modern infrastructure. Our trains, bridges and roads were the envy of the world. Now, as our economy has shed jobs, the world has moved ahead and our infrastructure is falling woefully behind. We desperately need a transportation plan that provides a vision for the future of American infrastructure and puts the American people back to work realizing that vision. To make sure that plan doesn’t add to our federal deficit, we should pay for the investments in infrastructure with a small transaction tax on stock and derivatives trades and the funds returned by the banks to the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Wall Street was a major contributor to the current economic downturn that has cost so many American people their jobs. The banks and executives who were rescued from the financial crisis should now be on the hook to help Main Street get back on its feet.” ###
11.05.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 5, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON PRAISES UNEMPLOYMENT EXTENSION, SAYS WE MUST PUT AMERICANS BACK TO WORK NOW Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, responded to Congress’ approval of legislation to extend unemployment insurance for up to 20 weeks, extend the first-time homebuyer’s tax credit, provide mortgage relief to our military families, and provide tax breaks to small businesses. “The House of Representatives made it clear today that we are standing with the American people who have lost their jobs, their homes and their health insurance, with short-term help to weather these difficult economic times and long-term solutions to get our economy back on track. By extending unemployment we are providing a direct stimulus to ailing local economies and helping families make ends meet. Almost 12,000 residents in my home state of Connecticut will see their unemployment benefits extended thanks to the action we are taking today. Providing unemployment checks and boosting the housing market, while important, are not the final answers to our economic problems. “We must put the American people back to work. Although we are seeing early positive economic indicators, a jobless recovery is simply unacceptable to me. My colleagues and I are working tirelessly to find ways to create jobs and put our economy on sound footing for the future. That means encouraging investment in alternative energy to create jobs in new industries that will reduce our reliance on foreign oil. It means rebuilding our nation’s ailing infrastructure from high speed rail to broadband internet access. It means making sure that our small businesses, the engines of our economy, have access to the loans and investments they need to create jobs and thrive. I am committed to working to make these goals a reality.” ###
11.05.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 4, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON VOTES TO IMPROVE CONSUMER PROTECTIONS FROM ABUSIVE CREDIT CARD PRACTICES Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus voted to accelerate critical reforms that will protect consumers from the abusive practices of the credit card industry. By moving up the start date of much of the Credit CARD Act, Congress can limit the worst practices of credit card companies before the full law takes effect. The Credit CARD Act implemented tough regulations on the credit card industry and empowered consumers by equipping them with the tools they need to manage their own credit. “Families from all over Connecticut have contacted my office to tell me about the tricks and gimmicks credit card companies are playing with their accounts – raising interest rates for no reason, charging unwarranted fees and hiding important information in the small print,” said Congressman Larson. “The stories are the same, responsible families who pay the bills on time are seeing their credit card bills skyrocket at the same time they are struggling to make ends meet during this economic crisis. I am glad we took strong action today to tell the credit card industry these practices are unacceptable.” The Expedited CARD Reform for Consumers Act moves up the effective date for these critical credit card reforms from February 22nd to immediately following the President’s signing this bill into law. The original legislation includes crucial measures that protect consumers from unfair interest rate hikes on existing balances, double-cycle billing and due-date gimmicks. The common-sense reforms in this bill will bring transparency and fairness to the credit card industry and will provide customers with the information they need to make smart financial decisions. “Our economic recovery depends on hard work, financial responsibility and shared prosperity,” said Larson. “This bill supports our goals of protecting consumers and bringing common sense reform to the financial system.” ###
11.02.2009	For Immediate Release November 2, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 Larson Presents Breast Cancer Heroine Award to Maggie Gardner of Hartford Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) presented Margarita “Maggie” Gardner with the Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Heroine Award to honor her dedicated advocacy on behalf of breast cancer survivors and her work in the fight against the disease. Diagnosed with breast cancer in 2006, Maggie contacted Congressman Larson in that year to ask for assistance with her Social Security Disability claim. While facing breast cancer, she feared while going through the bureaucratic process with the Social Security Administration that she would face financial setbacks or lose her home. Fortunately, because of her dire needs, Congressman Larson was able to support her claim and request that her case be expedited. As a result, Maggie was able to win her fight against breast cancer and carry on her life without long term financial ramifications. As a result of the issues she encountered while battling breast cancer, Maggie established “Gardner’s House”, a non-profit focused on providing a one-stop place for individuals with breast cancer to receive guidance through the medical and assistance system as well as mental and emotional support. Particularly, Gardner has reached out to the African American community in Greater Hartford to increase overall awareness of breast cancer. “Maggie is truly an inspiration to us all. She has supported countless women and their families through the mental and physical dilemmas presented by this severe disease. She is an advocate who has used her own story to transform the lives of others, and I am honored to present her with this award, “said Congressman Larson. The award is given annually during Breast Cancer Awareness Month. It was created by Congressman Larson and is named in honor of Nancy Pilver, the first recipient of the award in 1999. Pilver, a breast cancer activist and former Manchester resident, served as the State Legislative Chair of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition Foundation. Inspired by her story, Congressman Larson named the award in her honor in 2000. Pilver passed away in 2003. Congressman Larson presented the award to Maggie Gardner in his Hartford District Office. ###
11.02.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 30, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 Larson: Recovery Act Has Saved Or Created Thousands Of CT Jobs Recognizes there is more work to be done to get our economy back on track Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, announced that the Recovery Act is meeting its target of creating or saving one million jobs with just a quarter of the funding spent out and is on track to create and save at least 3.5 million jobs by next fall. In Connecticut, the reporting shows more than 7,000 jobs created or saved directly by funding in the Recovery Act, including more than 6,000 in the first district. “Job creation is a top priority for this Congress and every day we are looking for more ways to put Americans back to work,” said Larson. “We know that many Americans are still losing their jobs or having trouble finding new ones, and we are taking bold action to create jobs and put our economy back on sound footing for the future.” The Recovery Act made targeted investments in industries that will create jobs in the short term and put our economy on sound footing for the future. In Connecticut’s first district, two companies that are doing important work in advanced science and engineering – the type of research and development that will make us more competitive in the global economy of the future – received funding grants. Supra Magnetics, Inc., a company that specializes in state-of-the-art superconductors, created two good-paying engineering jobs. PMD Scientific, Inc. was also able to hire their first five employees for their advanced work in nuclear detection. “Local companies and communities are beginning to see the benefits of the Recovery Act funding, putting our neighbors back to work and rebuilding our local economy. Our work is not done, though, and we will continue to work to create jobs and get Recovery funds to out as quickly and responsibly as possible,” said Larson. The data released today accounts for only 18% of total Recovery Act funds, and shows only the direct and immediate number of jobs created by those funds. It does not capture indirect jobs created by Recovery projects nationwide, and does not show the jobs that will be created in the near future from these same funds. For example, the data lists the number of jobs created by a contractor who has hired workers right now to build a bridge, but it does not account for the number of jobs created by a company that supplies building materials to the contractor, or the number of new workers a restaurant across the street from the job site hires to support an increased number of customers. It also leaves out the number of workers the contractor might hire next year as it expands its operations. The release of this new data represents an unprecedented level of transparency in a government program – a commitment President Obama and this Congress made to the American people. “This reporting process lets every American see exactly how their tax dollars are being used to strengthen the economy and help create and save jobs,” said Larson. “And while this represents only a small part of the picture of the Recovery Act’s work, it does point to some important progress.” The Recovery Act has already helped millions of Americans during these tough economic times by extending unemployment insurance, cutting taxes for 95% of working families, giving out loans to small businesses and boosting funding to hire more local teachers, fire fighters and police officers. ###
10.29.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 29, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: NEW HEALTH CARE BILL VITAL FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement on the introduction of the Affordable Health Care for America Act. “First, I would like to congratulate and commend our leadership team, Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Hoyer, as well as the chairmen of our committees who have worked tirelessly for months to put together this historic piece of legislation. American presidents since FDR have tried and failed to reform our health care system and now success is within sight. “Passing health care reform now is vital to our economic recovery. One of the top reasons that companies are moving their operations overseas and taking American jobs with them is the growing burden of paying for health care in this country. Health care is also the biggest contributor to our national deficit. If we want to bring back those jobs, encourage companies to stay on American shores, grow our economy and improve our nation’s fiscal stability, we must reform our health care system. “Since the beginning of August, the members of our Caucus have held almost 2000 events in their districts about health care. We heard from the American people about what matters most to them and we brought those ideas back to Washington to improve and update our health care legislation. The legislation we introduced today adheres to the same principles we laid out months ago. It brings stability and security to Americans who have insurance. It makes sure there is affordable coverage for those who don’t, and it reduces the unsustainable growth in the cost of health care, which has doubled in the last decade and may double again if we do nothing. But this legislation does so in a way that saves more money, lowering the deficit in the long term by reducing waste and fraud in our health care system, and provides more benefits to the American people. “For average Americans this legislation will mean that you and your doctor – not insurance companies – are in charge when it comes to making important decisions about your health care. It means your insurance company can’t drop you because you “get too sick” and they can’t deny you coverage or charge you a higher rate because you’ve had cancer, diabetes, heart disease or any other pre-existing condition. For seniors, we are strengthening Medicare, making it solvent longer and improving care by encouraging doctors to coordinate and reduce inefficiencies. We are also closing the “donut hole” in the Medicare prescription drug program so no senior has to choose between paying for their prescriptions and putting food on their table. “The battle for health care reform is far from over. But I am pleased to stand with my colleagues today for the American people in announcing that we are one big step closer to realizing our goals.” ###
10.29.2009	For Immediate Release October 29, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Local Institutions Receive Funding to Boost Economy With Geothermal Development Projects Washington D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced over 3 million dollars in Recovery Act grant funding will go to Connecticut based-institutions for the research and development of an emerging energy source in our nation.The United Technologies Research Center and the University of Hartford will receive funds to support their exploration and development projects related to geothermal technology. The funding, provided by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Geothermal Technologies Program, will help support the expansion of the U.S. geothermal sector and create jobs locally and across the nation in a growing industry that is critical to our future economic prosperity. “From fuel cells to solar power, Connecticut is home to companies and institutions leading the world in the development of clean energy technologies. Geothermal energy has great potential to reduce our reliance on foreign oil. The research and development by UTRC and the University of Hartford in this emerging power source will not only provide power to our schools and homes, but also stimulate our economy and create jobs,” said Congressman Larson Today’s announcement by the U.S. Department of Energy provided up to $338 million in Recovery Act funding to support 123 projects in 39 states. The grants will be matched more than one-for-one with an investment of $353 million in private funds, at no cost to the federal government. United Technologies Research Center $1,199,928 East Harford, CT This project will focus on optimization of hybrid?water/air?cooled condenser to reduce water consumption and improve cooling of binary power plants in an enhanced turbine geothermal binary system. United Technologies Research Center $1,823,969 East Hartford, CT This project will identify and test more efficient heat transfer fluids for binary power plants University of Hartford $146,973, West Hartford, CT The University of Hartford will develop an integrated system simulation and design model for hybrid GHP systems designed to effectively balance ground thermal loads. ###
10.29.2009	For Immediate Release October 29, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: House Approves Funding for the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives passed broad legislation that makes targeted investments in our nation’s natural and cultural resources. Included in the legislation was $150,000 in funding, supported by U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, to preserve the home and historical collections at the Harriet Beecher Stowe Center in Hartford. Harriet Beecher Stowe is the celebrated author of the antislavery novel Uncle Tom's Cabin, the 19th century bestseller. Her 1871 home and the center has over 200,000 artifacts and documents and holds the collection of materials of important themes of 19th century America including the women suffrage movement and slavery. The Center’s archives are also utilized by local and international scholars, including recent Pulitzer Prize recipients. “As a former history teacher, I believe it is important to ensure that future generations understand the history that came before them. Harriet Beecher Stowe was truly a remarkable woman, whose writing of social justice positively altered the very landscape of our nation. I’m proud our state and the City of Hartford are home to a rich history, and we must continue to protect it by fostering greater access to our cultural past,” said Congressman Larson. The Interior Appropriations Act makes key investments in protecting the nation’s environment and supporting historical conservation. Also, the bill supports projects of excellence for the National Endowment of the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. ###
10.29.2009	For Immediate Release October 29, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: House Approves Funding for The Mattabassett District Washington, D.C. - Today, the House of Representatives approved $500,000 in funding proposed by U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) to support renovations and upgrades for the Mattabassett District’s wastewater treatment facility. The funding was part of the Interior Appropriations Act, broader legislation that invests in restoring and protecting the quality of our nation’s natural resources and environmental infrastructure. The improvements to the Mattabassett District’s Wastewater Treatment Facility in Cromwell will support efforts to meet federal and state Long Island Sound Nitrogren removal requirements. The funding will also allow the District to increase their flow capacity to support economic development and viability in the region- all at no additional cost to the residents of the district. “I am proud to support this essential renovation for the Mattabassett District Wastewater Treatment facility. This funding will improve the quality of life, protect one of our state’s finest water resources, and create jobs in the region,” said Congressman Larson. The Mattabassett District is a Regional Sewer Authority that operates a 20 million gallon per day Wastewater Treatment Facility and treats the wastewater from six central Connecticut communities: including New Britain, Berlin, Cromwell, Middletown, Rocky Hill, and Newington in Congressman Larson’s District. The Interior Appropriations Act makes key investments in protecting the nation’s environment, enhancing our water infrastructure and supporting conservation. The bill also takes significant steps to reduce pollution in our water and air, and provides aid to nearly 1,500 communities to improve their drinking water and wastewater systems. ###
10.27.2009	For Immediate Release October 27, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: United Technologies Research Center to Receive Recovery Act Funding to Develop New Carbon Capture System For Power Plants and Factories Washington D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the United Technologies Research Center (UTRC) of East Hartford will receive $2,251,183 in Recovery Act funding to develop a new and more affordable system to capture carbon dioxide from power plants and factories. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy(ARPA-E). UTRC will create a new carbon capture system, using a synthetic form of the carbonic anhydrase enzyme, which could drastically reduce the cost of carbon capture systems and protect our nation’s environment from carbon dioxide emissions. “Natural gas and coal power plants across our nation release carbon emission that can have a debilitating toll on the health and well-being of our citizens and communities,” said Congressman Larson. “The innovative carbon capture system, spearheaded by the UTRC, can reduce carbon emissions while stimulating future job growth in the clean energy sector in Connecticut and across the nation.” Congressman Larson is a member of the Select Committee for Energy Independence and Global Warming. Background United Technologies Research Center CO2 Capture United Technologies Research Center, in partnership with Hamilton Sundstrand, CM-Tech, Inc, Worley-Parsons, and Columbia University, will develop new synthetic enzymes that could make it easier and more affordable to capture carbon dioxide emissions from power plants and factories. If successful, the effort will significantly lower capital costs to have carbon capture systems up and working. In all, this project would represent a major breakthrough in carbon capture processes that could make it affordable to capture the carbon dioxide emissions from coal and natural gas power plants around the world. U.S. Department of Energy’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy (ARPA-E). This is the first round of projects funded under ARPA-E, which was allocated $400 million under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. A total of $151 million was awarded to thirty-seven projects in today’s announcement. Funding from ARPA-E will help develop creative and inventive approaches to transform the global energy landscape while advancing nation’s leadership in technology. Inspired by the Defense Advanced Projects Research Agency (DARPA), ARPA-E was created to support high risk, high reward energy research that can provide transformative new solutions for climate change and energy security. For more information on the ARPA-E program, please visit https://arpa-e.energy.gov/ ###
10.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 22, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON VOTES TO PROVIDE CRITICAL CARE FOR CT HIV/AIDS PATIENTS Washington, DC –Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, voted to provide life-saving care, treatment, and support services to nearly half a million Americans living with HIV and AIDS. The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Extension Act makes vital investments in research and care to ensure that Americans living with HIV and AIDS can maintain the highest quality of life as we strive to find a cure. It will also restore millions of dollars in federal aid to Connecticut and the Hartford area in particular. “The Ryan White Program has been serving Americans living with HIV and AIDS for nearly 20 years,” said Congressman Larson. “This bipartisan bill makes key investments to improve the quality and affordability of care for HIV and AIDS patients. I am proud we were able to boost local funding to this program and provide our most vulnerable patients with the care they need.” The last reauthorization of the Ryan White CARE Act led to more than $3 million in cuts to HIV/AIDS care and services for the State of Connecticut. Hartford alone experienced a devastating 32% decrease in funding. The legislation this Congress passed will help restore much of the funding Connecticut had lost in previous years. Shawn M. Lang, Director of Public Policy with the Connecticut AIDS Resource Coalition said, “I am thrilled that the Senate and House worked tirelessly to get the Ryan White Act passed. It means a tremendous amount to the thousands of people living in Connecticut with HIV/AIDS. We’re particularly pleased with the leadership of the Connecticut delegation, namely Senator Dodd and Congressman Larson, on this issue.” First established in 1990, the Ryan White Program has made it easier for HIV/AIDS patients to afford the costly medical treatments they need to survive. Today’s extension will increase the authorization level for each part of the program by 5% a year for the next 4 years to ensure that we continue to provide access to vital health benefits for low-income, uninsured, and underinsured Americans. It also makes investments to improve care in regions of the country with the highest rates of HIV/AIDS, and helps to eliminate disparities in access to care among racial and ethnic groups by funding the Minority AIDS Initiative – a program that ensures minority populations receive uninterrupted, quality care for HIV/AIDS. “This program is a lifeline for some of our low-income and minority populations,” said Congressman Larson. “I am proud to stand with my colleagues in the House and Senate in support of this life-saving initiative to ensure that Connecticut residents living with HIV and AIDS receive this vital care.” Each year, over 50,000 new cases of HIV/AIDS are reported in our communities. 1.1 million Americans are currently living with HIV or AIDS. More than 10,000 Connecticut residents are currently living with HIV/AIDS. # # #
10.19.2009	October 19, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-888 Congressman Larson to Host Public Forum on Health Care in Winsted Hartford, CT-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host a public forum on the state of our nation’s health care system at Northwestern Connecticut Community College on Sunday, October 25th from 3pm-5pm. Larson will discuss health care reform and why health care reform is essential for American families and vital to the economic stability of our nation. He will also highlight local healthcare initiatives such as The Community Health Center of Greater Torrington receiving Federally Qualified Health Center status and the creation of a nursing program at NWCC. For more information, please click here or contact Congressman Larson’s District Office at 860-278-8888. WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson Member of Congress, Connecticut 1st District WHEN: Sunday, October 25th from 3pm-5pm WHERE: Northwestern Connecticut Community College Founders Hall Auditorium, 2nd Floor, Founders Hall Park Place East Winsted, CT 06098
10.15.2009	For Immediate Release October 16, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 LARSON’S PUBLIC SAFETY PRIORITY FOR HARTFORD IS APPROVED BY THE HOUSE Washington, DC – Last night, the House of Representatives approved $800,000 in funding proposed by U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) for Hartford's new public safety complex. The funding was part of broader legislation that makes targeted investments to our nation’s essential public safety priorities. Expected to be completed in 2011, the public safety complex will be home to the city’s new emergency response operations and will help the city better coordinate police, fire, and emergency operations. “Communication between our city’s police officers, firefighters, and emergency medical personnel is critical for ensuring the overall safety of the public. This funding will allow Hartford’s first responders the ability to seamlessly coordinate their efforts and communicate during emergency situations,” said Congressman Larson. “With its updated technology, the centralized operations center will provide our city’s finest and bravest with the tools to secure and protect Hartford’s residents and communities.” The city’s new emergency operation center will also have the capabilities to serve as a command post for emergencies in neighboring and regional emergencies. The public safety complex will be the home of the city’s police, fire, and emergency response offices. The Conference Report of House-Senate FY 10 Homeland Security Appropriations Act will invest in top priority homeland security programs that will keep Americans safe , including programs that secure our borders, ports and airports, and help train local first responders and emergency personnel. It includes over $3 billion in grants for local municipalities to protect critical infrastructure in high-threat areas, help local fire departments and upgrade central command facilities. The Senate will take up the legislation in the coming weeks, the last step before the bill is signed into law by the President. ###
10.15.2009	For Immediate Release October 16, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson’s Public Safety Priority for Torrington Passes The House Washington D.C.-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) applauded the House of Representatives for voting in favor of broad legislation focused on making targeted investments in our nation’s homeland security and public safety priorities. Included in legislation was $400,000 to the City of Torrington to expand its existing Emergency Operations Center to better serve the city, Litchfield County, and the northwestern Connecticut region. “Upgrading Torrington’s emergency operation center will improve the coordination of the city’s first responders during emergencies and ensure the safety of residents in the city and its surrounding towns,” said Congressman Larson. Under current mutual aid agreements, Torrington’s Police and Fire Departments routinely respond to calls for service in over a dozen other cities and towns in the northwest Connecticut region. Additional funding will help expand and improve the City of Torrington’s emergency response communications system, enabling better field communication between law enforcement, fire and other public safety agencies within the city departments and neighboring towns. Congressman Larson worked with Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-05) to help secure funding for the city’s emergency operations center. The Conference Report of House-Senate FY 10 Homeland Security Appropriations Act will invest in top priority homeland security programs that will keep Americans safe , including programs that secure our borders, ports and airports, and help train local first responders and emergency personnel. It includes over $3 billion in grants for local municipalities to protect critical infrastructure in high-threat areas, help local fire departments and upgrade central command facilities. The Senate will take up the legislation in the coming weeks, the last step before the bill is signed into law by the President. ###
10.14.2009	October 15, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds (860) 278-8888 This Sunday, Congressman Larson to Host a Public Forum on Afghanistan in Wethersfield Hartford, CT- Sunday, October 18th from 4pm-6pm at the Pitkin Community Center in Wethersfield, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, will host a public forum to discuss our nation’s foreign policy in Afghanistan. In addition to discussing our path forward in Afghanistan and its surrounding region, Congressman Larson will also answer questions from members of the audience. The public forum is open to the public. For more information on the forum, please contact Congressman Larson’s District Office at 860-278-8888. Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus What: Public Forum on Afghanistan When: Sunday, October 18th 4pm-6pm Where:Pitkin Community Center 30 Greenfield Street Wethersfield, CT 06109 ###
10.12.2009	Hartford, CT - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s (CT-01) staff will hold District Satellite Office hours at the Torrington City Hall on Tuesday, October 20th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. A representative from Congressman Larson’s office will be available during this time to meet with constituents who have questions or concerns related to federal government programs and agencies. Please contact Congressman Larson’s office at (860) 278-8888 if you have any questions. Who- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson’s District Office Staff When- Tuesday, October 20th from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Where-Torrington City Hall, Room T1 59 Field St ,Torrington, CT
10.07.2009	For Immediate Release: October 7, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: House Approves Federal Funding To Prevent Flooding in Barkhamsted Funding provided in Appropriations Bill that will invest in the growth of our nation’s rural and agricultural communities Washington, DC-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the House of Representatives has passed legislation that includes $500,000 in federal funding for the Town of Barkhamsted to improve the Mountain Road Stream area and prevent flooding in the Historic District of Riverton. The funding for Barkhamsted is part of broad legislation, The Agriculture Appropriations Bill that provides targeted investments in our nation’s agricultural and rural communities, including funding to conserve our national resources and improve food nutrition programs for youth. The Senate will take up the legislation in the coming weeks, the last step before the bill is signed into law by the President. Barkhamsted will utilize the funding to widen the riverbank as well as to make repairs to the Mountain Road and Old Riverton Inn culverts. The Mountain River Stream runs from People’s State Forest in the Pleasant Valley section of Barkhamsted to the Farmington River. “Last year, destructive rainstorms caused the Mountain Road Stream to flood, damaging local farmlands and nearly caving in a road,” said Congressman Larson. “This funding will make the necessary repairs to the stream and prevent future flooding that can have a serious toll for the residents, small businesses and the local environment in Riverton.” Earlier this year, Congressman Larson spoke with Barkhamsted First Selectman Don Stein on the need for federal assistance to address the infrastructure and public safety concerns caused by the flooding of the Mountain River Stream. “I would also like to thank First Selectman Don Stein for his leadership and hard work on this issue.” The Village of Riverton, located on the Farmington and Still Rivers, and the Farmington River have federal designation from the U.S. Department of Interior. Riverton is on the Federal Register of Historic Places and the Farmington River is a federally designated Wild and Scenic River. ###
10.01.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 1, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON SECURES FUNDING FOR ENERGY AND SCIENCE PRIORITIES IN CONNECTICUT Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus praised the House of Representatives today for passing legislation that will make important investments in Connecticut’s energy and science industries. The Energy and Water Appropriations Bill, which will now go on to the Senate and then be signed into law by President Obama, increases funding for hydrogen energy technologies, provides $2.5 million for the University of Connecticut’s Global Fuel Center and invests in key science education programs. “Research into alternative energies will lay the foundation for economic growth and prosperity in Connecticut for years to come. I am thrilled that Congress has approved this funding to help us make Connecticut more competitive in a global economy,” said Larson. Specifically, the legislation increased funding for hydrogen energy technologies, one of Connecticut’s fastest growing industries, to $174,000,000. It also invests in these key Connecticut priorities: $2.5 million for the Global Fuel Center at the University of Connecticut to accelerate its research and development of fuel cell technology – one of the fastest growing industries in Connecticut. $750,000 for the State University System’s Nanotechnology Initiative to build an advanced nanotechnology program for education and research. $500,000 for the Smart Energy Program at the Connecticut Science Center to teach Connecticut’s students about the potential of energy efficient technologies. “These projects are an important step in growing Connecticut’s energy technologies industry to create jobs and grow our economy for the long-term. The investments in education will ensure that our students are at the forefront of this burgeoning industry,” said Larson. The Energy and Water Appropriations Bill is another important step towards fulfilling President Obama’s long term economic plan to boost funding for the development of alternative energy technology, grow our economy and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Larson said, “Until we stop exporting our dollars overseas to feed our addiction to foreign oil, our national security and economy will be at the mercy of other countries. This bill helps us end that addiction and become energy independent by investing in alternative energy innovation and technologies. It will provide short term help by boosting the economy and creating jobs, and long-term solutions to our energy needs. It takes key steps to develop the next generation of “smart grid” technology and vehicles fueled by alternative energies. And, it helps American families weatherize their homes and lower their energy bills to get through these difficult times.” ###
09.30.2009	For Immediate Release: September 30, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-888 Larson: Newington and South Windsor Police Departments To Receive School Safety Grants Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the Newington and South Windsor Police Departments will receive federal funding to increase security and safety in our public schools. Newington and South Windsor Police were awarded $84,595 and $53,918 respectfully. The Secure Our Schools (SOS) grant program, provided by the Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Office (COPS), supports efforts by local municipalities and states to establish and enhance school safety equipment and/or programs with the goal of providing a safe learning and working environment for students and teachers. “Our children is our nation’s most cherished asset. This funding will provide both the Newington and South Windsor police departments the necessary tools to ensure the safety of our students and allow them to focus on their educational goals,” said Congressman Larson. Secure Our Schools grants are two years in duration and will cover up to 50% of the total cost for the awarded project. This year, the COPS program will award close to $16 million to support school safety related projects through 128 law enforcement agencies in 38 states. Congressman Larson has long supported the COPS program and its mission to keeping our streets safe and our citizens secure. This year, he was instrumental in the passage of legislation to increase funding for public safety programs, including the COPS program, critical to maintaining public safety in our nation’s communities. ### For additional information about the COPS Secure Our Schools program, visit COPS website at www.cops.usdoj.gov.
09.28.2009	For Immediate Release: September 28, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds-860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Visits ATG Rehab’s New Connecticut Service Center in Rocky Hill Rocky Hill, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, toured ATG Rehab’s newly opened Connecticut service center in Rocky Hill, which is also the hometown of the company’s corporate headquarters. The tour of the new facility was led by ATG Rehab’s CEO, Paul Bergantino, and President of Northeast Regional Operations, Frank Biondello Jr. ATG Rehab, one of North America’s leading providers of specialized wheelchairs, seating systems, and other physical rehabilitation equipment, is a rapidly growing company with over 20 full service locations across 15 states and employing more than 550 people, including over 100 in Connecticut. In the past year alone, ATG Rehab has provided services to over 23,000 customers nationally and 3,600 customers throughout Connecticut, including 900 customers with disabilities that reside in the First Congressional District. “I applaud the yeomen work of Mr. Bergantino, Mr. Biondello, and their passionate staff at ATG Rehab for providing products and services to citizens with disabilities in Connecticut and across the nation,” said Congressman Larson. “I am proud a growing company of its caliber, with over 100 employees residing and working in this state, is committed to continue their growth here in Connecticut.” said Congressman Larson. ATG Rehab’s CEO Paul Bergantino, a Cromwell resident, said “It was a distinct pleasure to host Congressman Larson at our newest facility here in Rocky Hill. We stand committed to adding additional skilled jobs in Connecticut to meet our company’s high quality standards.” Last month, ATG Rehab provided services to approximately 200 customers in the First Congressional District. “I am honored and grateful in the Congressman’s interest in ATG Rehab and how our services enhance the lives of children and adults with complex disabilities.” Due to the result of business growth, ATG Rehab moved to their new 23,000 square feet complex rehab facility, one of the largest of its kind. The facility will also serve as the service hub for the company’s east coast operations. ### Left to right- Armand Legault (a retired State of Connecticut Tax Audit Supervisor who has Muscular Dystrophy), Congressman Larson, and Paul Bergantino, CEO of ATG Rehab.
09.24.2009	For Immediate Release: September 24, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: East Hartford Fire Department Receives Recovery Act Funding for the Construction of a New Fire Station Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the East Hartford Fire Department will receive $3,394,679 in Recovery Act funding to support the construction of a new fire station. The funding was provided under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act’s Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction Grants (SCG) program. Congressman Larson supported the town’s grant application with a letter to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), pointing out that the project met all of the requirements of an ideal Recovery Act Program. This project will immediately help create and save local jobs while the new fire station will support our first responders and give our local community the infrastructure it needs to grow and thrive for the long term. The project is also shovel ready, as the plan to rebuild Fire Station #5 has been in the works for more than five years. The town has already approved a project design and secured property to construct the new station. “I am pleased to join with Mayor Melody Currey and Chief John Oates in presenting this grant to East Hartford and its fire department. Construction of a new fire station will greatly enhance the department’s capabilities to protect the well-being of the community and respond to emergencies,” said Congressman Larson.“Today’s announcement is further evidence of the Recovery Act’s success in placing our nation on the path towards economic stability. This is truly a shovel-ready project that fulfills the economic goals outlined in the Recovery Act for job creation and public safety improvements.” "The East Hartford Fire Department is comprised of 130 members who are proud to serve the residents and visitors of the community every day. The construction of a new Fire Station 5 in the southwest portion of East Hartford will allow us to better serve the community," said East Hartford Fire Chief John H. Oates."The success of this grant application does not solely lie on the shoulders of one person. Many individuals provided information, data, and guidance through the process. I appreciate the efforts of Congressman Larson who assisted us with the development of a successful grant application." The Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction Grant Program is available to fire departments nationwide on a competitive basis to fund the building of new or modify existing fire stations. The program is administered by DHS and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Office. ###
09.22.2009	For Immediate Release September 22, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson and Connecticut Delegation to Host U.S. Service Academy Informational Session for Interested High School Students Hartford, CT- Connecticut High School students who are interested in attending one of the United States service academies are invited to attend the Connecticut U.S. Service Academy Day informational session on Saturday, September 26th from 9:00AM-12:00PM at Middlesex Community College in Middletown. At the session, prospective candidates will meet with representatives from the U.S. Service Academies, members from Congressman Larson’s staff as well as staff from the state’s U.S. Senate and other Congressional Offices. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must have a nomination from an authorized nominating source, which includes Members of Congress. To be nominated by a Member of Congress, applicants must reside in the Congressional District of the nominating Congressperson. For more information on Academy Day or the service academy application process, please contact Beth Monchun in Congressman Larson’s District Office at 860-278-8888. Click here to go to Congressman Larson’s Academy Nomination webpage. What: Connecticut U.S. Service Academy Day Where: Middlesex Community College, 100 Training Hill Road, Middletown, CT When: Saturday, September 26th 9:00AM-12:00PM ###
09.21.2009	For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 21, 2009Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888Congressman Larson Announces ConnDOT to Receive $7 Million in Recovery Act Funding for Hybrid Buses and Fuel Cells Washington, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), announced that the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) will receive $7 million in Recovery Act funding to purchase diesel-electric hybrid transit buses and to provide stationary fuel cells to power the state’s bus maintenance and storage facilities. ConnDOT was one of 40 transit agencies to receive funding from the U.S. Department of Energy’s Transit Investments for Greenhouse Gas and Energy Reduction (TIGGER) grant program. “With this funding, Connecticut will boost its economy and continue to be a national leader in the creation of green jobs and the utilization of clean energy technology,” said Congressman Larson. “The Recovery Act continues to put our nation on the path towards economic stability by helping us transition to a clean energy economy and create new jobs here at home – all while ending our dangerous dependence on foreign sources of energy.”ConnDOT will use this funding to upgrade new buses to hybrid-electric power and install a fuel cell storage facility and a stationary fuel cell in the Hartford CTTransit maintenance and storage facility. The funding also covers installation of stationary fuel cells in both the New Haven and Stamford CTTransit facilities.Currently, Connecticut has two hybrid buses and one fuel cell bus – the first of its kind in New England. In 2006, Congressman Larson helped secure a $2.9 million dollar grant from the Federal Transportation Administration to fund the purchase and supporting infrastructure of the fuel cell bus. ConnDOT expects four more fuel cell buses to be in the fleet in the next 12 months. Congressman Larson, a co-founder of the House Hydrogen Fuel Cell Caucus, has long championed fuel cell technology and its overall benefits to Connecticut’s and our nation’s economy. Earlier this year in separate House Appropriations bills, Congressman Larson secured an additional $45 million in funding to support fuel cell technology and $2.5 million for the Global Fuel Center at the University of Connecticut.###
09.21.2009	For Immediate ReleaseSeptember 21, 2009Contact: Paul Mounds 860-539-4924Congressman Larson’s Statement on Pratt & Whitney Plant Closure DecisionHartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement on Pratt &Whitney’s decision to close the Cheshire Engine Center and the East Hartford-based Connecticut Airfoil Repair Operations:“I am deeply disappointed by today’s announcement. It’s a major blow to our state’s manufacturing industry, Connecticut’s economy, and most importantly, to the hard working men and women of Pratt & Whitney. I still believed that a compromise that would have saved these jobs in Connecticut could have been achieved between Pratt & Whitney, the Machinists Union and the state of Connecticut. “During my tenure in Congress, I have worked with the Connecticut delegation to preserve manufacturing jobs in Connecticut by securing critical federal funding to continue the production of Pratt & Whitney’s engines, and by protecting important military programs like the F-35 and C-17. This delegation in Washington, time and time again, has worked and voted in favor of the best interests of the machinists and employees of Pratt & Whitney. It is disappointing that at the end of the day, the interests of shareholders, and not the years of hard work and sacrifice by these employees, motivated the company’s final decision.“I will continue to fight for the Connecticut worker and to protect Connecticut jobs. Through the bold action of our President and this Congress, our nation has begun to climb out of the cavernous economic hole that we faced a little more than a year ago. I will continue to make the economy my number one priority.”
09.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 17, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 FINANCIAL CRISIS INQUIRY COMMISSION BEGINS WORK Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement after today’s inaugural meeting of the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. Larson led the effort to include the Commission as a provision of the Mortgage Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, legislation that provides critical funding and updated tools to help law enforcement pursue and prosecute mortgage and corporate fraud. “One year after the collapse of Lehman Brothers our economy is no longer on the brink, but Wall Street has obviously not learned its lesson. Reports of the same kind of gimmicks and trickery, greed and outrageous risk-taking that led to this financial crisis persist. It is so important that the work of our new Pecora-style commission on the financial system that began today provide us with insights and information about the workings of our complex financial system. “I have full faith that this bipartisan initiative will move forward cooperatively with thorough work that will play a vital role in our efforts to reform the regulation of the financial system. I commend the talented commissioners who have been appointed to serve on this panel and look forward to seeing the product of their work.” ###
09.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 16, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON VOTES TO BOOST AMERICAN INNOVATION, PROTECT JOBS, NATIONAL SECURITY Washington, DC – Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, voted to strengthen our economy and national security by boosting American innovation in alternative energies and fuel efficient vehicle technology. The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act will create the most comprehensive national vehicle research and development program to date, to build on the achievements of this Congress in advancing clean American energy and fuel efficiency. This new program will help us invest in fuel cell technology, a major industry in Connecticut and a source of jobs for the future. “Our national and economic security are both at risk when we export billions of dollars overseas for oil,” said Larson. “By investing in American energy and technology that boosts fuel efficiency, we are creating jobs, rebuilding our economy and protecting our national security. Hydrogen fuel cells are a technology option that can provide power for a wide array of transportation applications. Fuel Cells are a proven technology and already in use today. ” Hydrogen fuel cells are clean and efficient and will allow us to become more energy independent while reducing carbon emissions. In Hartford, the transit department is already proving the benefits of a fuel cell powered bus. The bus emits no pollution and is the emissions–saving equal of removing 77 cars from our roadways The Advanced Vehicle Technology Act will build on the historic fuel efficiency standards enacted under a Democratic-led Congress in 2007 and our success with the Cash for Clunkers program – a national program that rewarded Americans who turned in almost 700,000 gas-guzzling and air-polluting older cars for newer, more fuel-efficient models. “Cash for Clunkers was an enormous success, boosting car sales for the auto industry and reducing car emissions at the same time,” said Larson. “Now this bill will spur research to develop new, more efficient cars for American consumers.” Earlier this year, the House also passed an historic clean energy jobs bill that will help the private sector create millions of new American jobs that can’t be shipped overseas and help energy-intensive industries transition to a cleaner, more profitable future. It will also allow us to export American technology and innovation to rest of world and cut our oil use by 5 million barrels a day by 2030 – the equivalent of what we import now from Venezuela and the Middle East. This week, the Obama Administration also announced new auto fuel economy standards that increase efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions to help consumers save money at the pump and decrease our dependence on foreign oil. “Reducing our reliance on foreign sources of energy is part of the broad economic strategy this Congress and President Obama are working to enact,” said Larson. “By passing short-term boosts to our economy like Cash for Clunkers, as well as long-term solutions like the Advanced Vehicle Technology Act and our clean energy jobs bill, we are creating jobs in Connecticut and spurring American innovation.” The bipartisan Advanced Vehicle Technology Act is supported by a broad coalition, including labor groups like the United Autoworkers, auto companies such as Ford Motor Company, General Motors and Chrysler and business groups like the National Association of Manufacturers and environmental groups, such as the Sierra Club and Natural Resources Defense Council. To see video of Congressman Larson speaking on the floor of the House of Representatives about the benefits of fuel cell technology, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TrpuYRa7UW8 ###
09.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 9, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR NEW CAMPAIGN FINANCE REFORM IN WAKE OF MCCAIN-FEINGOLD SUPREME COURT CHALLENGE Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, responded today to the arguments before the Supreme Court over the constitutionality on restrictions to political campaign contributions by corporations. Congressman Larson is the author of the Fair Elections Now Act (FENA), H.R. 1826, in the House of Representatives, legislation that would end the hunt for big dollar donations to political campaigns and allow Members of Congress to get back to doing the work the people sent them to Washington to do. Larson, said, “The hearing before the Supreme Court today is further evidence of how broken our campaign finance system is and how badly we need true reform. Today, Members of Congress are forced to spend too much time dialing for dollars. This distracting hunt for campaign contributions takes us away from the real reason we came to Washington – to do the people’s business. “That is why I authored the Fair Elections Now Act - comprehensive reform that would give candidates and Members of Congress alike an opportunity to concentrate on talking to constituents rather than donors and studying issues rather than call sheets. FENA would be exempt from the constitutional challenges that have been raised against the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform law. It would offer candidates the choice of accessing public funds for their campaigns if they reach a certain threshold of support and forego big dollar fundraising in exchange for the sort of grassroots small donor efforts we saw Barack Obama use so successfully in his presidential campaign. “By taking the special interests and corporations out of our electoral process we would put the American people back in charge. We heard that from experts at our hearing on FENA before the House Administration Committee and we’ve seen that example as states around the country have implemented their own Fair Elections systems. Today’s hearing at the Supreme Court reaffirms my support for the Fair Elections Now Act and I will continue to work to bring the bill for a vote on the floor of the House.” Monica Youn, Counsel at New York University School of Law’s Brennan Center for Justice said, “FENA doesn’t contain any features that courts have found to raise constitutional issues. Instead, the Supreme Court and other courts have consistently upheld the constitutionality of public financing systems, such as FENA.” ###
08.31.2009	Wednesday, Larson to Host Public Forum on Health Care Reform Hartford, CT-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, will host a public forum to discuss the state of our nation's health care system at the West Hartford Town Hall Auditorium on Wednesday, September 2nd from 5:30pm-7:30pm. At the forum, Congressman Larson will be joined by Judith Stein, Founder and Executive Director of the Center for Medicare Advocacy, Brenda Kelly, Connecticut Director of the AARP, and Kevin Galvin, small business owner and chairman of Small Businesses for Health Care Reform. Last week, Congressman Larson held a telephone town hall with about 4,000 constituents to discuss the need for health care reform. Wednesday's forum will be the tenth public forum meeting, and fourth on health care, hosted by Congressman Larson this year. To RSVP to attend the forum, please contact Congressman Larson's District Office at 860-278-8888. WHAT: Public Forum on Health Care Reform WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson Judith Stein, Center for Medicare Advocacy Brenda Kelly, AARP Kevin Galvin, Small Business Owner and Small Businesses for Health Care Reform WHEN: September 2nd 2009 5:30pm-7:30pm WHERE: West Hartford Town Hall Auditorium 50 South Main Street West Hartford, CT ###
08.26.2009	For Immediate ReleaseAugust 26, 2009Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Statement on the Passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy Hartford, CT-U.S Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement today on the passing of Senator Edward M. Kennedy: "Today, the nation mourns the passing of a sentinel of social and economic justice. Senator Kennedy was a true friend and mentor; a man of integrity, who indelibly left his mark in the United States Senate. He will be missed by many, and remembered by all. "Ted Kennedy was many things to this nation - a figurehead, a patriarch and a leader - but, his longest surviving legacy will be the contributions he made to the moral and humanitarian development of our country. He taught us to take care of our neediest and deny the civil rights of none. He never turned his back on those who were less fortunate. He made it his purpose in life to spread the promises of a quality education, health care and equal rights, to every American. He left his indelible finger print on the most important issues of our time. "One of my proudest moments was sharing the stage with Senator Kennedy as we came together with 17,000 people in Hartford to support Barack Obama and his message of hope for America. Senator Kennedy spoke with passion and ambition of the great possibility for this nation and our world with Barack Obama as President. We were equally proud to watch a year later as Barack Obama was sworn in as President. "He has humbly passed the torch, lit by the legacies of his illustrious brothers and family to President Obama and a new generation of patriots to fulfill the promise of progress to make this nation ‘a more perfect union'. "I extend my deepest condolences to the entire Kennedy family, particularly my close friend and colleague Congressman Patrick Kennedy. The Kennedy family has lost their husband, father, uncle and brother and this country has lost a guiding force. Ted Kennedy had a vision for the future of our nation and a strong faith in the American people's potential and ability to achieve that vision. We will not lose sight of his goals. Even with the passing of this great man, we must persevere and believe, ‘the work goes on, the cause endures, the hope still lives, and the dream shall never die." ###
08.24.2009	For Immediate ReleaseAugust 24, 2009Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Holds Telephone Town Hall On Health Care Reform Larson: We need a bold American solution that builds on what works in our health care system and fixes what's broken by providing affordable quality health care to all Americans. Hartford, CT- Tonight, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson held a telephone town hall with about 4,000 constituents from the 1st District to discuss health care reform. The telephone town hall was the first major public event held by Congressman Larson since he underwent heart valve replacement surgery earlier this month. This was the ninth town hall meeting and third on health care, Congressman Larson has held this year. Congressman Larson released the following remarks at the conclusion of the meeting: "Telephone town halls are a unique method to reach out to constituents from all over the 1st Congressional on important issues and to separate myths from facts. "We need a bold American solution that builds on what works in our health care system and fixes what's broken by providing affordable quality health care to all Americans. We can't have families where someone has had a heart attack or cancer denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. We can't have people losing their coverage because they have lost or changed jobs. And, we can't let healthcare costs bankrupt families or the Federal budget. "I am committed to health care reform that allows you to keep your current plan if you like it, reform that puts you and your doctor in charge of your care. The cost of inaction on health care will continue to debilitate our families, small businesses, and our nation. "Tonight we called over 50,000 residents for the telephone town hall and I look forward to continuing the discussion on health care, over the phone and in person, with residents throughout the 1st district." ###
08.13.2009	For Immediate ReleaseAugust 13, 2009Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: Connecticut to Receive Recovery Act Funding for Weatherization Programs Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the State of Connecticut will receive $25 million of Recovery Act funding for Weatherization Programs today. In all, Connecticut will receive over $64 million in funding to support weatherization assistance programs throughout the state. "Investing in Weatherization Assistance is one of the best ways to get money to the families that need it the most. This funding will help families lower their energy bills, it will put hardworking Americans back to work, help the environment, and it will put us on a path towards greater energy independence. As part of our American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, this money will offer short term help to Americans who have lost their job or are having trouble making ends meet, and long term solutions to end our dependence on foreign oil." Background: Connecticut will be awarded $25,724,201 in Recovery Act funds to weatherize approximately 7,400 homes and re-weatherize an additional 100 homes over the three-year grant period. The State Department of Social Services administers the Weatherization Program, which assists low-income persons in minimizing energy-related costs and fuel usage in their residences. Every home under the program is checked for various health and safety measures and receives an energy audit to determine the most cost-effective weatherization activities for that home. Some of the most common weatherization activities include insulation throughout the home, air-sealing, and replacing windows and doors. After demonstrating successful implementation of its plan, the state will receive the final $32 million of the weatherization program funding. Earlier in the year, Connecticut received approximately $7 million dollars in initial weatherization funding.
07.30.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 30, 2009CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 CT DELEGATION VOTES TO PRESERVE F-22 MANUFACTURING JOBS Washington, DC - Today, the members of the Connecticut Delegation to the House of Representatives voted to preserve the jobs of the hard-working men and women of Pratt and Whitney who build the engines for the world's most advanced military planes. The delegation fought for Defense Appropriations legislation to include funding that will allow Pratt to build 15 spare engines for F-22 and C-17 aircraft, in addition to the 13 engines Pratt has been assigned to build for new C-17s, the 12 engines for F-16 upgrades, and the 28 engines for the Joint Strike Fighter. Production of these engines is vital to our local economy and the manufacturing base of our state and the country. Pratt and Whitney has confirmed for us that this funding will save jobs in our area that otherwise would have been cut or shipped overseas and help them bridge the gap to full production of the Joint Strike Fighter. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said, "Saving these jobs is vital to our local economy and our national security, and I am proud to have voted in favor of the employees at Pratt and Whitney today. The highly-skilled men and women who build the engines for the world's most advanced military planes - the F-22 and C-17 - represent the core of our manufacturing base. They have unique skills that are vital to our national security. If we ship those jobs overseas - they will be gone for good and we will be turning our manufacturing industry and national security over to other countries. I would like to thank Chairman Murtha for his leadership on this issue and I would also like to thank the entire Connecticut delegation, particularly Senator Dodd, for his hard work on this." Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), said, "We must do everything we can to keep these production lines open and moving to ensure that these highly skilled engineers, machinists and aerospace workers stay employed right here in Connecticut. I'm pleased that the efforts to secure this funding have paid off today. There is more work to be done and we will continue fighting to preserve Connecticut's highly skilled manufacturing base for the sake of our national and economic security." Senator Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT), said, "I commend my House colleagues for their vote in support of these critical programs. The Air Force's leadership has repeatedly warned Congress that cancelling the F-22A Raptor program would imperil our national security, and the C-17 Globemaster is essential for supporting our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the world. I will fight throughout the appropriations process to reinforce the House vote and sustain funding for both the Raptor and the Globemaster." Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03) stated, "Connecticut workers are among the most-skilled in the country, and our men and women in uniform depend upon the outstanding products that they construct. By funding these spare engines we will utilize their skills and maintain good manufacturing jobs in Connecticut today, while ensuring that we are able to keep a stable supply base in place into the future that upholds our air dominance against any future threat and allows us to safeguard our national security." Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-05), said, "Connecticut is home to a world-class workforce that builds the engines for some of the greatest planes ever flown by our airmen and women. Today, we kept our commitment to keep jobs in Connecticut, and to all Americans whose safety depends on these fighters monitoring the skies to protect us from national security threats. After a few dark days for Connecticut's defense industry, this is a big win." Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02), said, "As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, I am pleased that the full House has supported additional F-22 engine production. In the end, the current fleet of F-22s will require upkeep, maintenance, and the availability of additional engines to ensure safe flight and readiness. This amendment ensures that Connecticut and its talented workforce will continue doing what it does best - building the most advanced and capable military engines in the world. Today, thanks to the leadership of Congressman Larson and the work of the Connecticut delegation, we have made a wise investment in our national security and the jobs that keep our state's economic engine moving." ###
07.30.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 30, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 HOUSE APPROVES LARSON'S DEFENSE PRIORITIES Washington, DC -- Today, the House of Representatives voted to approve Congressman John B. Larson's (CT-01) key local defense priorities to improve national security, reduce costs and keep our manufacturing sector robust and innovative. The projects help develop the next generation of weaponry and aircraft to keep Americans safe. They bring almost $22 million to our local economy in order to boost our manufacturing sector and help us ensure that the highly-skilled, good paying jobs of the future stay in our area. "Our manufacturing base is a critical component of our national security. These projects will create jobs for the highly-skilled workforce this country has relied on for decades to keep us safe. The manufacturing base has been hit hard by the current recession, and this legislation can give our local industry a much needed boost," said Congressman Larson. The projects include: · Regenerative Fuel Cell Back-up Power - The Department of Defense is the single largest energy consumer in the nation. This project will develop a stationary, renewable fuel cell power source that decreases the carbon footprint of our military and creates green jobs in one of our state's fastest growing sectors. · Advanced Turbine Engine Program - By building the next generation of helicopter engines, this project will sustain jobs in Connecticut's manufacturing sector, and reduce the cost of maintenance to American taxpayers over the complete life of the helicopter. · Next Generation Precision Airdrop System - With U.S. Forces deployed in difficult foreign terrain, the military has drastically increased the use of precision airdrops to get supplies to our troops on the ground. This project will help develop technology to improve the precision deliveries and ensure the safety of our troops by reducing their exposure in dangerous locations. · Modern Helicopter Control - This project will reduce the operation cost of the Army's fleet of helicopters, saving the American taxpayers up to 30%, by developing new hardware and controls to enhance helicopter reliability and mission capability in harsh environments. · Laser Optimization Remote Lighting Systems - This project, a joint initiative of local universities, community colleges, and Connecticut companies, will develop the use of lasers as a light source on U.S. Navy ships. The project will help the Navy save on energy costs and develop new laser technologies for use in other sectors. · Unmanned Hybrid Projectiles - Our military is facing new and unexpected challenges as it works around the world to keep us safe. To help in those endeavors the University of Hartford and manufacturing partners in the private and public sector are working with the Army to develop a key unmanned technology that will keep our soldiers out of harm's way and reduce unnecessary civilian casualties. The project is crucial to Connecticut's advanced manufacturing industry. · Foil Bearing Supported UAV Engines - The funding for this project will utilize foil bearings to increase the life of an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle's (UAV) engine. By correcting the issue of the short life of UAV engines, the project will greatly increase system reliability while decreasing overall costs to American taxpayers. · Helicopter Expansion Mods - This project will fund testing of a new innovative technology to increase the speed, maneuverability, and survivability of military crew beyond that of conventional military helicopters. The projects come as part of the Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2010. That bill keeps our commitment to our troops and their families with a 3.4% pay raise for our military, first class medical care and strong support for family advocacy programs. We also continue efforts to end the practice of "stop loss" and pay our troops an additional $500 for every month their term of service is involuntarily extended and provide our military with the weapons and equipment they need to fight the wars of today and tomorrow. The bill also makes a commitment to fiscal responsibility - reigning in outsourcing so that Defense personnel, not contractors, perform critical department functions. ###
07.29.2009	FOR ADVISORY PURPOSES ONLY July 29, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Thursday at 2pm, Congressman Larson To Host Interactive Online Town Hall on Fair Elections Now Act Larson will testify tomorrow at a congressional committee hearing on the legislation Washington, DC-On Thursday July 30th at 2pm, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson will host a live, interactive streamed online town hall. He'll be answering questions about his Fair Elections Now Act, a bill that will reduce the influence of big donors in the legislative process. States, such as Connecticut, have shown overwhelming success with similar legislation in reducing the influence of big donors in the electoral process. It is time to bring this kind of real change to Washington. President Obama showed us all how small donations and average Americans can make a difference in an election. With the Fair Elections Now Act, we will give small donors a fair say in the electoral process. Congressman Larson introduced this landmark bipartisan legislation in March 2009, and it has received support from Members of Congress as well as respected national and local organizations including Common Cause and the Public Campaign Action Fund. Congressman Larson is scheduled to testify at a hearing hosted by the House Administration Committee on Thursday to discuss the legislation and public financing of congressional campaigns. We are asking constituents to submit questions or upload them to YouTube and send us the video URL. Log on to https://larson.house.gov/townhall on July 30th at 2 pm and you'll be able to ask questions during our interactive event, as Congressman Larson replies over a live video stream. Who: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson What: Online Town Hall-Conversation about reducing the influence of big donors in politics When: July 30th, 2 PM Where: https://larson.house.gov/townhall
07.28.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} For Immediate Release July 28, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 Larson: City of Hartford To Receive Over $4 Million in COPS Recovery Act Funding Washington, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined Vice President Joseph Biden and Attorney General Eric Holder today to announce that the City of Hartford will receive $4,265,672 in Recovery Act funding to fund the hiring and rehiring of 23 law enforcement officers. The funding, administered by the U.S. Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services, will provide relief to the city's local budget while enhancing public safety by increasing the number of law enforcement officers in the community. "The Recovery Act has renewed our nation's commitment to public safety. The current economic crisis facing the nation has financially crippled our states and cities causing cuts in law enforcement that sacrifice their overall security and well-being," said Congressman Larson. "This funding will support 23 officers in Hartford over a three year period at no cost to the residents or the city. We cannot afford significant cuts in the number of police on the street in the capital city, and this COPS grant will ensure our communities remain safe." The announcement today in total will provide $1 billion in grants to fund the hiring and rehiring of 4,699 law enforcement officers across the country. The grant provides 100 percent of the approved salary and benefits for entry level officer positions over a three year period. The City of Hartford was one of three police departments in Connecticut to receive COPS Recovery Act funding. ###
07.24.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 23, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON HOUSING AND EDUCATIONAL PRIORITIES APPROVED BY CONGRESS Washington, DC -- Today, the House of Representatives approved funding requested by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) for critical housing and social services projects in the Hartford area at the Hartford Housing Authority, Mercy House and Shelter Corporation and the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Hartford. The funding would allow for the renovation and revitalization of two local low-income housing facilities as well as the development of educational programs and facilities in distressed neighborhoods. The projects come as part of a broader bill that will help enact President Obama's long term economic strategy to provide short term help to the neediest Americans and long term solutions to help improve our economy and give our youth the opportunity to succeed. Congressman Larson said, "These vital projects will help our neighbors who have been hit hardest by the economic downturn now by providing them with a place to live and in the long run by giving their kids the tools to succeed in the future." · The Boys and Girls Club of Hartford will receive $600,000 to establish a new presence in Hartford with a focus on decreasing neighborhood violence and giving local children new personalized educational opportunities. The funding would allow the Boys and Girls Club to renovate space for a headquarters within the SAND Community Center and give them support to expand their educational-services during after school hours. · $500,000 in funding for the Hartford Housing Authority will help provide housing for those at risk of losing theirs by attracting new tenants into the apartments at Nelton Court. The complex, built in 1947 houses 90 families in units described as "non-repairable," requiring extensive and costly upgrades to make them livable. The less expensive plan will demolish the entire complex and replace it with approximately 80 units and a community center. · The Mercy House and Shelter Corporation will receive $500,000 to restore the 200 year-old landmark St. Elizabeth House to bring it up to code and make it usable for housing. "These organizations provide vital services to our neighborhood and can help pave a pathway for a more robust local economy, a brighter future for our youth and a better sense of community on our streets," said Congressman Larson. These projects were included in the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill that will make targeted investments to provide short term help in the form of housing and jobs to those hurt most by the economic downturn and long term solutions like improved infrastructure to put our economy on sound footing for the future. It invests in the next generation of high speed passenger rail and new commuter and light rail systems to increase our use of public transportation and help wean us off of our addiction to foreign oil. It invests in grant programs that revitalize neighborhoods and spur economic development in vacant commercial and industrial sites and improves our nation's aging highway system to make transportation safer and more efficient. ###
07.24.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 24, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson: House Approves Funding to Spur Economic Growth in East Hartford Washington D.C. - Last night, the House of Representatives passed legislation that includes $400,000 in federal funding for the Town of East Hartford to improve the infrastructure of the Park Avenue commercial area. The funding will help support the development of a master design plan to spur economic development and regional employment growth. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) advocated for the inclusion of the funding for East Hartford in the Transportation-Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill. "Park Avenue has built a foundation upon which economic development in East Hartford and the Greater Hartford region can expand. The underutilized and vacant warehouses in the area can house high tech and green manufacturing companies and bring much needed jobs to the community. By making an investment in Park Avenue, we are ensuring economic stability and job growth in the region. This project will serve as a true example of sustainable urban development," said Congressman Larson. The funding will be used to develop a master design plan focused on enhancing the infrastructure to make the area attractive and inviting to businesses. The Park Avenue commercial area was previously used as a warehouse, food, and manufacturing center, however due to major infrastructure obstacles, the area and the warehouse facilities are unfeasible locations for prospective businesses in its current state. The area is being targeted as a location for green and high technology companies due to its adjacency to the Connecticut Southern Rail Line and the large capacity of dark fiber optic lines on the rail. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill will make targeted investments to provide short term help in the form of housing and jobs to those hurt most by the economic downturn and long term solutions like improved infrastructure to put our economy on sound footing for the future. It invests in the next generation of high speed passenger rail as well as in new commuter and light rail systems to increase our use of public transportation and help wean us off of our addiction to foreign oil. In addition, the bill invests in grant programs that will revitalize neighborhoods, spur economic development in vacant commercial and industrial sites and improve our nation's aging highway system to make transportation safer and more efficient. ###
07.24.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 24, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Larson, Murphy Announce $750,000 for Torrington’s Downtown Redevelopment Project Washington, D.C. – Last night, The House of Representatives passed legislation that includes a $750,000 grant for the City of Torrington’s Main Street Realignment Project, an effort which will make the downtown business and entertainment district safer for residents by building new roadways and intersections. Currently, The Connecticut Department of Public Safety grades the intersection with near failing grade of “D” for vehicular traffic disruptions and overall risk to public safety. Both U.S. Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) and Chris Murphy (CT-05) advocated for the inclusion of the funding for Torrington in the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill. “The reconfiguration of Downtown Main Street is essential to the Torrington’s redevelopment efforts. Currently, the city’s downtown intersection ranks as one of the most dangerous roads in the state. With public attractions, businesses, and educational institutions, Downtown Torrington is a heavily congested area within the city. This funding is essential to the city’s economic development and to ensuring the public safety of visitors and local residents,” said Congressman Larson. “Downtown Torrington is a great place to catch a show at the Warner or grab dinner at one of its many great restaurants. But as more people utilize what the city has to offer, the traffic increases. This road project will alleviate a lot of the gridlock we see now, and make it safer for pedestrians,” said Murphy. The City of Torrington is currently in the process of redeveloping its downtown district. A major component of these redevelopment efforts includes reconfiguring the existing roadway on Main Street to be both pedestrian- and vehicle-friendly. Furthermore, the realignment of Main Street will improve public safety and meet state-imposed standards on safety and traffic flow. Downtown Torrington is home to many small and emerging businesses, UConn’s Torrington Campus, and the Warner Theatre. Earlier in the year, both Congressmen Larson and Murphy met with Torrington Mayor Ryan Bingham in Washington, D.C. to discuss the downtown redevelopment project and the overall benefits of growing the economy in Torrington and Litchfield County. The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill that will make targeted investments to provide short term housing and job relief to those hurt most by the economic downturn, as well as long-term solutions like improving our national infrastructure to put our economy on sound footing for the future. It invests in the next generation of high-speed passenger and commuter rail service to increase access to public transportation, save consumers money, and help wean us off of our addiction to foreign oil. In addition, the bill invests in grant programs that will revitalize neighborhoods, spur economic development in vacant commercial and industrial sites and improve our nation’s aging highway system to make transportation safer and more efficient. ###
07.22.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 21, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON RESPONDS TO SENATE F-22 VOTE Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement in response to the Senate's vote on the F-22 today. "I am deeply disappointed by the vote cast in the Senate today. It is unfathomable to me that in this economy anyone in Washington would take action leading to the lay-off of 95,000 highly-skilled manufacturing workers - the backbone of our workforce. There is no place for these workers to go once these jobs disappear. This is a reckless decision that goes to the heart of our manufacturing base and our national security. To protect the American people and the American way of life, it is vital that we keep these jobs and skills on our shores. As we speak, other countries are building their manufacturing base and skill set with advanced fighter planes. I will continue to work to keep the production lines open and keep these highly-skilled, good-paying jobs in Connecticut." ###
07.14.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 14, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202.225.7295 CONGRESSMAN LARSON COMMENDS OBAMA’S ACTION ON COMMUNITY COLLEGES Urges President to include technology outreach in his plan Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s announcement of his new American Graduation Initiative: “President Obama once again displayed his gift for transformational leadership when he announced this morning an innovative initiative to strengthen community colleges across the country so they can build the American workforce of the future. I am a strong believer that community colleges can be a hub for technology and job training in our communities if they are given the resources that our schools and students need. I’ve introduced The Community College Technology Access Act, developed with the support of the NDN, which will open the doors of community college technology labs and training opportunities to the public in order to provide workers who are lacking key computer skills the opportunity to attain them. By broadening their mission, community colleges have the potential to be a hub to train our workforce for the jobs of the future. My legislation helps them fulfill their potential and boosts local economies around the country. I commend the President’s leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him on it.” ###
07.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 10, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 Congress Takes Bold Steps To Protect Consumers At The Pump Washington, DC - The American Clean Energy and Security Act included bold action to close the loopholes that have allowed speculators to manipulate our energy markets and artificially inflate prices at the pump. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of Democratic Caucus, praised the legislation for including key provisions of the Prevent Unfair Manipulation of Prices (PUMP) Act, of which Larson has been a long -time supporter and co-sponsor. The PUMP Act was originally proposed by Congressman Bart Stupak of Michigan. Congressman Larson said, "For too long, speculators have been allowed to run rampant in the "dark" commodities markets and we've all suffered as a result. Prices at the pump have fluctuated as these speculators manipulate the markets and keep us addicted to foreign oil. With this legislation we are telling the speculators that we will no longer be at the mercy of their inflated profit-making schemes. We are taking back control of our markets and shedding the fierce light of scrutiny on the darkest corners of the commodity markets. I have been fighting for this type of regulation over the "dark" markets for years and I am glad that it was included in our historic clean energy jobs legislation." To ensure that the new carbon markets created by our clean energy jobs legislation don't lead to the sort of energy price fluctuations we've seen in the oil markets, the legislation gives the Commodity Futures Trading Corporation (CFTC) new power to regulate carbon derivatives. The legislation also: Gives the CFTC the authority to regulate all of the currently unregulated over-the-counter (OTC) trades. Takes all swaps out of the "dark" markets by creating a clearinghouse that reviews each deal. Keeps speculators from manipulating prices on the commodity markets by making sure that no one investor can hold too much of the markets. Keeps over-the-counter trading from simply moving off of our shores by extending regulations to foreign trades for energy products that will be delivered in the United States or that occur on a terminal located in the United States. Bans naked credit default swaps. Closes the swaps loophole that allowed energy transactions to be excluded from the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act. ###
07.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 9, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON JOINS T. BOONE PICKENS TO COMMEMORATE ANNIVERSARY OF PICKENS PLAN, DECLARE "ENERGY INDEPENDENCE DAY" Washington D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, joined oil tycoon T. Boone Pickens to declare July 8th as "Energy Independence Day" and mark the one-year anniversary of his launch of the Pickens Plan - a plan to reduce America's dependence on foreign oil and encourage the development of alternative energy sources like natural gas and wind. Praising Boone's efforts to build a new, clean energy economy, Chairman Larson said: "One year ago, T. Boone Pickens launched the Pickens Plan and recruited millions of Americans to join us in working toward real energy independence and a new, clean energy economy. Since that time, we elected a president who made ending our reliance on foreign oil a top priority and passed the groundbreaking American Clean Energy and Security Act to create clean energy jobs and protect our national security interests. Chairman Larson is an original cosponsor of the New Alternative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions Act or NAT GAS Act heralded by Mr. Pickens. The legislation aims to reduce the nation's dependence on foreign energy sources while at the same time lowering transportation fuel costs, greenhouse gas emissions and urban pollution from vehicles. "As long as we are exporting our dollars in exchange for oil and shipping our natural gas technology to other countries, our economy and our national security are at the mercy of foreign nations," said Larson. "The NAT GAS Act leverages the buying power of the federal government to build demand for natural gas vehicles that will grow our economy and create good, American jobs. I commend Mr. Pickens for his leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him to pass this important bill." ###
07.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 8, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Announces Community Renewal Team To Receive Recovery Act Funding to Create Youthbuild Program Funding Will Create Second Youthbuild Program in Hartford Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced that the Community Renewal Team, Inc. (CRT) will receive $463,620 in Recovery Act funding to develop an education and workforce training program for youth ages 18-24. This funding will create the Capital City Youthbuild Program, the second YouthBuild program in Hartford to help at risk youth. Through the Recovery Act, seventy-five community organizations nationwide, in addition to CRT, will receive funding to support current or new YouthBuild programs. The Youthbuild Program, administered by the U.S. Department of Labor, assists youth ages 16-24 in earning their diploma or GED and providing them with job training opportunities. Youthbuild participants also construct or rehabilitate affordable housing for low income or homeless families in the program's home based community. Participants in the Capital City Youthbuild program will assist in rehabilitating two abandoned properties into affordable housing for low -income families in the Northend of Hartford. In the classroom and on the construction site, YouthBuild prepares young adults for college and a career while developing them into positive community leaders and role models. "I am proud to announce CRT has received Recovery Act funding to establish a new YouthBuild program in Hartford. CRT, under the leadership of Lena Rodriquez, has truly been a partner in breaking the cycle of poverty and its inevitable consequences within our urban communities," said Congressman Larson. "The Recovery Act is working here in Connecticut and across the nation with targeted investments to grow and restore our economy. The YouthBuild funding announcement for CRT represents a critical investment in our nation's greatest asset, our youth. And through its education and job training programs, Youthbuild continues to serve as a preeminent national program for empowering our inner city youth to become tomorrow's leaders." Lena Rodriquez, President and CEO of CRT said, "We are very happy to be establishing a YouthBuild program in North Hartford. This program brings together a particularly strong group of partners, including the Hartford Housing Authority and the Carpenters Union. It will have a long-term effect by improving the housing stock in Hartford; helping youth move onto a career ladder with a future; and improving their families' financial stability. Considering the unemployment rate of Hartford youth in general -- and disconnected youth in particular -- CRT's YouthBuild will offer a much-needed positive career path." ###
07.10.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 7, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Bradley International Airport Awarded $1.3 Million Federal Grant for New Airport Terminal Hartford, CT-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, CT has received a federal grant for approximately $1.3 million to fund the development of a new terminal at the airport. The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation, will provide funding for preliminary engineering and design to develop the airport's new terminal. "Connecticut is uniquely situated in between New York City and Boston, and with this funding, Bradley International Airport will be able to expand its facilities to increase its plane and passenger capacity. By linking this funding with efforts to develop the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield rail line, Connecticut will continue to be the economic crossroads to the tri-state area and New England," said Congressman Larson. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson hosted Congressman James L. Oberstar, Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, on a tour of Bradley International Airport. The two held discussions with state and local officials on the further development of the airport and the New Haven-Hartford-Springfield Line. Bradley International Airport is the second largest airport in New England. In March, Congressman Larson announced Bradley will receive eight million dollars in Recovery Act funding to repair one of the airport's runways. ###
07.06.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 6, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson and FEMA to Host Public Meeting on Flood Plan Revisions in West Hartford Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) and officials from the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) will host a public outreach meeting regarding the recent revisions to the 100 year flood plan boundary maps on Tuesday, July 14th from 5:30-7:30pm at the West Hartford Town Hall Auditorium. After hearing concerns from residents in towns throughout his district, Congressman Larson asked FEMA to participate in a public meeting explaining the recent flood mapping changes. During the meeting, property owners will have the opportunity to hear from FEMA representatives on the remapping process. In addition, FEMA will provide attendees of the meeting information about the National Flood Insurance Program. Across the country, FEMA is updating flood maps that display flood risk at a property-by-property level. As new maps are issued, property flood risk might change as well as property owners requirements to obtain flood insurance. If mapped into a high-risk area, property owners will be required to purchase flood insurance if the mortgage is through a federally regulated or insured lender. In West Hartford, over 120 residents who contacted Congressman Larson's office and West Hartford Mayor R. Scott Slika concerning the flood map revisions received an invitation letter to the public meeting. In addition, Congressman Larson also sent letters to residents who were newly designated in high-risk flood areas from Berlin, East Hartford, East Windsor, Portland, and Wethersfield. The meeting is open to the public, and FEMA suggests attendees to bring documentation related to questions about flood insurance or flood zone designation. In addition, all non-residents of West Hartford attending the meeting should ask their town engineer's office for a plot/tax map with structures including GEO Referencing of the flood layers for your property. The Town of West Hartford will have plot/tax maps on hand at the meeting for its residents. Please contact Congressman Larson's Office at 860-278-8888 if you have any questions concerning the meeting. What: Public Meeting on FEMA Flood Plan Revisions Where: West Hartford Town Hall Auditorium 50 South Main Street, West Hartford, CT When: July 14th 2009 5:30-7:30pm ###
06.29.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 26, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: CONGRESS TOOK AN HISTORIC STEP TODAY TO CREATE JOBS, PROTECT THE COUNTRY Washington, DC - The House of Representatives took an historic vote in favor of Clean Energy Jobs legislation that will create American jobs, spur economic growth, reduce pollution and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "In the month of April the United States exported $6.8 billion to OPEC nations to feed our addiction to foreign oil. That means $1.5 billion to Saudi Arabia, $1.5 billion to Venezuela, and almost $170 million to Libya. That is the real tax the American people are paying. The former President Bush even stood on the floor of this House and admonished our addiction to foreign oil. Yet, the Republican Congress lacked the courage to make a stand, or the patriotic fervor or fiber to do the right thing. "On this historic day this Congress said no more - no more to sending our hard-earned dollars overseas to fund our enemies, no more putting our security and our men and women in uniform in harm's way because of oil, no more to polluting emissions that ruin our air and water and make our kids sick - no more. "Instead, we helped build a future where we invest in the clean, renewable energy we produce right here in America be it from solar, wind, geothermal or fuel cell sources, spurring the creation of jobs in entirely new industries that will stay right here in America. "We took a patriotic stand in support of American ingenuity and innovation. I believe in the American people's ability to remake the world. This is the future and I fear my colleagues on the other side of the aisle who voted against the bill are stuck in the past." ###
06.25.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 25, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 Goodwin College Receives Federal Funding to Provide Nursing School Scholarships to Disadvantaged Students Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced Goodwin College will receive a $49,250 federal grant to provide academic scholarships for their nursing program to disadvantaged students. Goodwin College, founded in 1999, has the second largest nursing program in the state. The Scholarships for Health Professions Students from Disadvantaged Backgrounds Grant Program, administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, provides funding to health profession and nursing schools for scholarships to students in financial need, as well as students from racial minority groups. "Connecticut has one of the most severe nursing shortages in the country, threatening the quality of health care in our state. At the same time, students throughout the state and my district are unable to pursue a higher education due to financial constraints. ," said Congressman Larson."This funding to Goodwin College, in addition to enhancing diversity in the health profession and aiding the state in solving its nursing crisis, will allow students, regardless of their economic background, the opportunity to gain an education at one of our state's top nursing programs." According to the most up to date National Sample Survey of Registered Nurses conducted by the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration, nurses from minority backgrounds represent approximately only 11% of the registered nurse workforce. ###
06.25.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 25, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 HOUSE APPROVES LARSON'S FUNDING FOR HARTFORD PUBLIC SAFETY COMPLEX Washington, DC - The House of Representatives approved $800,000 in funding for Hartford's new public safety complex. The complex will support the efforts of our police and fire departments to reduce crime and coordinate the work of our area's first responders, keeping local residents safe during an emergency. The funding was proposed by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) as part of a broader homeland security package that will invest in our priorities to protect Americans at home and keep our borders secure. "The public safety complex will keep our friends and neighbors safe during a crisis by making sure our first responders can communicate and coordinate their efforts," said Congressman Larson. "We saw too clearly on September 11th the importance of communication during an emergency. Since then, improving communication during a crisis has been a top priority. By building a central operation center we are bringing the best in technology and strategy to Hartford to secure our community." Hartford's new public safety complex will house the offices of police, fire and emergency response under one roof, making it easier to coordinate efforts. The emergency operation center, that this funding helps to develop, will also allow the complex to serve as a command post for regional emergencies. The broader Homeland Security legislation invests in key priorities to secure our borders and keep Americans safe. "We are making the right investments now to protect Americans and plan for the future in a fiscally sound and responsible way," said Congressman Larson. "We boost funding to fight violent crime and drug smuggling along the southwest border. We support our first responders with the training, equipment and personnel they need to keep our communities safe. We protect against growing threats to our cyber assets and we protect our ports, airports, rail and waterways. We do all of this while maintaining fiscal responsibility by eliminating 17 programs that weren't working and cutting funding for another 40 non essential programs." ###
06.25.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 24, 2009 CONTACT: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson to Host Workshop to Help Vets Apply for 9/11 GI Bill Benefits Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will host an informational workshop on Monday, June 29th at Goodwin College in East Hartford to provide Post-9/11 veterans and their families information about the education benefits available from the G.I. Bill. The Post-9/11 GI Bill provides education benefits for up to four academic years including stipends for books and housing for activated reservists and members of the National Guard who served at least 90 days of active duty service since September 11, 2001. The benefits are available for 15 years after release from active duty. Last week, Congress passed legislation allowing children of active duty service members who died since 9-11-01 to qualify for the GI Bill education benefits. The legislation has been sent to the President for his signature. At the workshop, veterans will be provided an opportunity to apply for the education benefits and hear about the new legislation. Congressman Larson will be joined by Shay Norton of the U.S. Department of Veterans of Affairs and a representative from Goodwin College who will outline the benefits available to veterans. To RSVP to the workshop, please contact Congressman Larson's District Office at 860-278-8888. WHAT: Informational Workshop to Assist Veterans to apply for Post 9/11 GI Bill Benefits WHO: U.S. Congressman John B. Larson Shay Norton, Management and Program Analyst, Education Service, Department of Veterans Affairs Representative from Goodwin College WHEN: Monday, June 29 3:30pm-4:30pm WHERE: Goodwin College River Campus Room 510 One Riverside Drive East Hartford, CT 06118 ###
06.19.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 19, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 CONGRESSMAN LARSON ANNOUNCES HEALTH CARE REFORM PRINCIPLES Washington, DC - Today, Democrats in the House of Representatives released their plan to make quality health care affordable and accessible to all Americans. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "Reforming health care in this country is vital to American families and our economic recovery. Right now, we spend twice as much per person on health care than any other country - and that isn't making us any healthier. If we do nothing, the cost of a family health insurance plan will be $24,000 a year by 2016. That means average American families will be spending almost half of their income on health insurance. "Any health care reform we undertake must stick to a few basic principles. "First, you will always have health coverage - whether you move, lose your job or retire. If you like your doctor or health plan you can keep it. You will always have that choice. "We will lower costs for American families - so no one faces financial ruin because they get sick. "If you have had cancer, heart disease or another pre-existing condition it will be covered. Guaranteed. "We must do all of this in a fiscally responsible way that does not add to the deficit. "I commend the Chairmen of our committees for their hard work on this issue and I look forward to continuing to work with them on this important issue." ###
06.18.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 18, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON'S PRIORITIES TO CUT YOUTH VIOLENCE PASS THE HOUSE Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass legislation that includes Congressman John B. Larson's (CT-01) key initiatives to combat youth violence in Connecticut. The legislation would bring more than $1 million to programs in the first district that reduce the number of youth involved in, hurt or killed by violent activities. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) said, "Homicide is the second leading cause of death for our nation's youth age 10 to 14, and the leading cause of death for African-American youth of that age. The prevalence of youth violence is a reality that many of my constituents face each day and combating youth violence is one of my top priorities. I believe our students should feel safe going to school and I would like to see every Connecticut child grow-up free from the oppression of violence so that they may reach their full potential. I am proud to support these programs that work to reduce the incidence of youth violence in our community." The programs that will receive funding in this legislation include: · The Hartford Truancy Reduction Program - improves school attendance and reduces youth violence by continuously collecting and monitoring school attendance data and intervening when attendance problems exist. · Governor's Prevention Partnership - works to reduce youth crime rates and promote public safety by providing support for at-risk youth through mentoring programs. · Stump the Violence - provides leadership training and peer counseling to local youth to reduce school dropout rates, youth violence and underage drinking. · Klingberg Family Centers - break the cycle of violence by providing an array of child welfare assistance to families affected by abuse including psychiatric services and clinical evaluations. In addition, the legislation passed today increases national funding for critical public safety programs that help local governments keep their streets and citizens safe, like the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program. This increased funding, combined with funding in the Recovery Act, will allow Connecticut to hire 80 new police officers. "Keeping the public safe is one of my most important responsibilities as an elected official," said Congressman Larson. "This legislation will give our community more of the tools we need to protect our kids and our communities." ###
06.18.2009	For Immediate Release June 16, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Helps Secure Federal Funding for Torrington Police Department Emergency Communications System Washington D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, helped to secure $175,000 in federal funding for the Torrington Police Department to improve their emergency response communication systems. The funding comes as part of broader legislation to invest in our national public safety priorities. "Public safety is essential to the growth and wellbeing of our community. This funding will allow the city of Torrington to upgrade their communications system, improve response time, and keep the residents of Torrington safe. This is a smart and much needed investment for Torrington and its police department, "said Congressman Larson. This new communications system will keep our communities and our neighbors safe by improving the coordination of our local first responders during emergencies. It will expand and improve the City of Torrington's emergency response communications system, enabling better field communication between law enforcement, fire and other public safety agencies. The system improvements to the city's communications system will help Torrington fulfill their long term goal of serving as the regional emergency and dispatch center for Northwestern Connecticut and Litchfield County. The Torrington's emergency response system currently serves as a public safety communications center for the city as well as for surrounding towns. However, it is not compatible with State's communications systems guidelines and would not meet future federal communications mandates without the funding. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson met with Torrington Mayor Ryan Bingham to discuss the project and its overall importance to the community. The legislation also invests in national priorities to keep our citizens and streets safe. It includes new funds for the incredibly successful Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program to help local municipalities hire more than 7,000 new police officer and boosts border protection to keep drugs and guns out of our neighborhoods. At the same time the legislation is fiscally responding - cutting overall spending by eliminating 11 programs that haven't worked and cutting funding on 13 others. The Bill will now go to the United States Senate for consideration. ###
06.18.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release June 18, 2009 Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Congressmen Larson, Courtney, Murphy and Himes Secure Funding to Update State Police Equipment and Enhance Connecticut Public Safety Funding Provided in Appropriations Act Passed in the House Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Washington, D.C. - Today, The House of Representatives passed the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Act (HR 2847). The bill provides critical investments in our nation's public safety, including $298 million to hire more officers in our communities and $529 million in grants to help law enforcement entities fight and prevent crime. U.S. Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Chris Murphy (CT-05), and Jim Himes (CT-04) announced that they have secured $175,000 of federal funding in the legislation for the Connecticut Department of Public Safety. All of whom voted in favor of the legislation. The funding will be used to equip Connecticut State Police vehicles with modernized digital camera systems. The updated system will allow officers to easily capture and record both video and audio evidentiary information. Currently, the State Police vehicles are outfitted with outdated and unreliable technology that relies on VHS tapes to record video and audio evidence. "Public Safety is a cornerstone to the growth and well-being of our state. We must provide our police officers with the equipment to safely and effectively complete their jobs. This funding will replace outdated equipment and provide our officers with the necessary tools to properly retrieve and store evidence. This is an important investment for the State of Connecticut and its citizens, "said Congressman Larson (CT-01). "The economy is struggling and Connecticut's budget is strapped, but nevertheless, the necessary resources to keep the public safe must be a priority. Refitting our state police vehicles with modern video technology is a benefit both to law enforcement officers and the public they serve. I am pleased to have worked with my colleagues to secure this funding in the House-passed bill to assist the Connecticut Department of Public Safety with critical project," stated Congressman Courtney (CT-02). Congressman Murphy (CT-05) said, "We ask so much of our police force, as they work tirelessly to keep our roads and communities safe. This funding recognizes their hard work by providing updated technology to ensure officer safety and allow them to capture and save valuable evidence. It's a worthwhile investment in their well-being and in the greater criminal justice system of Connecticut." "Investing in public safety helps keep our communities great places to live and run a business," said Congressman Himes (CT-04). "These are smart investments in less-costly preventive and monitoring measures that will save us in the long-run." The Commerce, Justice, And Science Appropriations Act now goes to the U.S. Senate for consideration. ###
06.18.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release June 18, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Announces Co-Opportunity to Receive Federal Funding for Education and Job Training for Local Youth YouthBuild program helps young people and communities nationwide Hartford, CT - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, has announced that Secretary of Labor Hilda L. Solis awarded a federal grant to a Hartford non-profit organization in support of their education and job training program for young adults. Co-Opportunity was awarded a $687,500 grant from the U.S. Department of Labor for the Hartford YouthBuild program. The Youth Build program provides young adults, aged 16-24, from low income backgrounds the ability to work toward their high school diploma or GED while learning critical job skills by building affordable housing for the homeless and underprivileged. Participants spend 6-24 months in the full-time program, dividing their time between classroom studies and learning skills in construction. In addition to receiving academic and occupational skills training, participants in the program develop leadership skills and take part in community service opportunities in the Greater Hartford area. Members of the YouthBuild program include individuals who have entered the juvenile justice system, aged out of foster care, and dropped out of high school. "I am proud to announce Co-Opportunity will receive funding to continue their successful YouthBuild program. Youthbuild assists our young adults achieve educational and vocational skills, while showing them the importance of community service," said Congressman Larson, who wrote a formal letter of support for Co-Opportunity's grant application to Secretary Solis. "Over the past 12 years, nearly 400 young men and women have been part of Co-opportunity's YouthBuild Hartford. We're excited that the grant being announced today gives us the opportunity to continue these important education and training services for Hartford youth", said Donna Taglianetti, Executive Director of Co-Opportunity. Since its inception, YouthBuild Hartford has been one of the most accomplished and successful YouthBuild programs in the country. More than 90 homes have been built by program members, and 87% of the graduates have secured jobs or pursued higher education within three month of graduating from the program. Congressman Larson stated, "Co-Opportunity is empowering our young adults to become responsible community citizens. YouthBuild Hartford, with Co-Opportunity's leadership, will continue to serve as one of our nation's preeminent education and leadership development programs for troubled and disadvantaged youth." In all, Secretary Solis awarded approximately $114 million in funding to 183 community groups for YouthBuild programs nationwide. For more information on YouthBuild Hartford, please visit https://www.co-opportunity.org/youthbuild.htm. ###
06.17.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 17, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON COMMENDS PRESIDENT FOR INTRODUCING REGULATORY REFORM PLAN Washington, DC - Today, the White House announced its framework for major reform of our financial regulatory structure. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "I commend President Obama for his work on reforming our financial system. Our regulatory framework is clearly outdated and cannot keep up with the fast-paced changes we have seen in the financial sector. President Obama's plan is a strong step towards reform that will put average Americans and consumers first. I look forward to working with the White House and our esteemed chairman, Congressman Barney Frank, to come up with a final vision for comprehensive reform. "Comprehensive reform must include a series of critical components: a look back at what went wrong in our financial sector and how we got here; independence for the watchdogs whom the American people trust to work on their behalf; an improved structure of regulators to ensure there are no cracks in the system; and, modernized regulations to deal with new and complex financial products. "Since our financial system was so severely damaged, I have been working to pass legislation that will protect consumers and Americans from the sort of devastation we've all experienced during this economic collapse. I believe that our regulators were asleep at the switch when they should have been investigating the likes of Bernie Madoff and others who turned our financial markets into their own personal playground. That is why I introduced and helped pass legislation that will give the Inspectors General of our regulatory agencies the tools and independence they need to fully oversee their respective agencies. Currently, many of these Inspectors General are hired by, and serve at the pleasure of, the head of the agencies they oversee often leaving their hands tied on the most important investigations. I also worked for the creation of an independent commission to study the root causes of the economic downturn. Just this week, full-funding for that commission was approved by the House. "I am glad that we are moving forward with the development of a new regulatory reform structure that will suit our 21st century global economy." ###
06.10.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 9, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON PRAISES OBAMA'S COMMITMENT TO FISCAL DISCIPLINE Washington, DC -- President Barack Obama was joined by Democratic Members of Congress today to express strong support for legislation that would reinstitute statutory pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules and restore fiscal discipline to the federal government. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "I stand with my Democratic colleagues and President Obama today in their commitment to fiscal discipline and cutting the deficit. "Strong fiscal discipline is one of the most important tenets of the work Democrats are doing in Washington. Former President Bush and Congressional Republicans took a $5.6 trillion surplus and left trillions of dollars in deficits. While we revitalize and grow our economy and create good jobs we also know that we can't leave the bill for past mistakes to future generations. That is why I support strong statutory PAYGO rules. "When Democrats became the majority in Congress two and a half years ago we instituted strong pay-as-you-go rules to reduce the deficit and restore fiscal restraint. We are working to reign in the waste, fraud and abuse that have plagued government spending so that the American people know we are getting the most for every tax dollar spent. Just as American households are tightening their belts during these tough times, so too must the federal government. "I look forward to working with President Obama to ensure the fiscal soundness of the federal government." ###
06.09.2009	v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 8, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7292 LARSON BILL TO ELEVATE REGULATORS' INSPECTORS GENERAL PASSES THE HOUSE Washington, DC - The House of Representatives passed the Improved Financial and Commodity Markets Oversight and Accountability Act today, legislation that will elevate the Inspectors General of our nation's regulatory agencies, giving them the tools and independence they need. The legislation, authored by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, will impact the Inspectors General of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Credit Union Administration and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Watch video of Congressman Larson speaking on the floor about his legislation: [youtube:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0r8B9is8FPU=24hzeP6PRpk 250px 250px] Congressman Larson said on the floor of the House of Representatives (remarks as prepared for delivery): "The regulatory agencies who were supposed to be monitoring our financial and commodity markets fell down on the job. Where were they when Bernie Madoff was scamming thousands of innocent Americans into giving up their life savings? Where were they when speculators were wreaking havoc in the oil markets? "I can think of no sector where honesty, independence and transparency are needed more right now than our financial and commodity markets. Yet the regulators of these markets have been allowed to work with no oversight of what they are doing and whether they are fulfilling their mission to protect the American consumer. "That‘s because the Inspectors General who should be working on behalf of average Americans are actually working for the heads of the agencies they are overseeing. This is a classic case of the fox watching the hen house and it is having a profound impact on the work of our regulatory agencies. "In a review of offices of Inspectors General, I found that on average independent offices completed 117 investigations in 2008 - while their non-independent counterparts completed just 12. That's 117 versus 12. " The Inspector General of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) released information showing that despite the recent economic crisis and the turbulence in the oil market, his office completed just two investigations and updated one from October of last year through this March. "Simply stated - independent watch dogs ensure better performance from government agencies. "I want to thank everyone who helped bring this legislation to the floor - notably Chairman Ed Towns of the Committee on Government Oversight, and Chairman Barney Frank for his ongoing work to reform the financial sector. I would also like to thank Congressmen Glenn Nye and John Boccieri - two freshmen who came to Washington with an eye towards reform." ###
06.05.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 4, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: PAID PARENTAL LEAVE ACT PUTS WORKING FAMILIES FIRST Congressman authored one of nation's first family leave laws Washington, DC - The House of Representatives passed legislation today that will provide federal employees with up to four weeks of paid leave after the birth or adoption of a child, bringing the federal government up to the same standards as most private sector employees. The Federal Employee Paid Parental Leave Act puts America's working families first. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "Twenty years ago, as President Pro Tem of the Connecticut State Senate, I proudly sponsored the nation's first family and medical leave bill to be signed into law, written with the help of renowned expert Dr. Edward Zigler of Yale University. The State of Connecticut became a laboratory for legislation that provided leave for new parents and caretakers, and a similar bill was eventually adopted on a national level. I said then, and I still believe, that the family has taken a back seat in many of our social and economic priorities and it is our duty to stand up for the American family now. Investing in our families is the best way to prepare the next generation for the future." "The legislation that passed the House today once again puts working families first by providing federal employees with four weeks of paid leave after the birth or adoption of a child. This means that new parents won't have to choose between their paycheck and spending time with their child. It protects the crucial first few weeks of a child's life in the home - giving parents time to bond with and care for their new child or infant. "By passing the Paid Parental Leave Act we will provide federal employees with benefits similar to many private sector employees - and help set a new standard for other employers who don't provide this type of leave. The legislation gives the federal government the tools it needs to recruit and retain a topnotch workforce and save money by reducing the costs of turnover and lost employees. "Preserving the American family should be one of our top priorities. In 1990 I wrote that the ‘days of the traditional male breadwinner and the stay-at home mother are gone for many people.' That is even truer today. Things have changed and rather than pretend they haven't, we must adapt the workplace to accommodate the progress our nation has made. This legislation does just that." ###
06.04.2009	v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release June 4, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds (860) 278-8888 Larson Sends Letter to Area Fire Chiefs to Apply for Firehouse Construction Recovery Act Funding Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) sent a letter to fire chiefs in the Hartford region regarding the program guidance on the Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction (FSC) Grant Program and encouraged them to apply for the funding. Congress and President Obama appropriated $210 million for the FSC Grant Program through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009. "The Fire Station Construction Grant Program will fund long overdue firehouse and fire related infrastructure projects in cities and towns in Connecticut and across the country. These funds will enhance the emergency response capability of our firefighters and ensure the public's safety through the construction and renovation of our region's fire stations," said Congressman Larson. Congressman Larson has posted the program guidance for the FSC grant program on his congressional website at Larson.house.gov under the section titled "American Recovery and Reinvestment Act". Assistance to Firefighters Fire Station Construction (FSC) Grant Program is available to fire departments on a competitive basis to fund the building of new or modify existing fire stations. The program will be administered by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in coordination with the U.S. Fire Administration's Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Office In the First Congressional District, there are 37 fire departments with 27 serving in a volunteer capacity. ###
06.03.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 3, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT REINFORCES NEED FOR LEGISLATION TO MAKE IG'S INDEPENDENT Washington, DC - The Inspector General of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) released information this week showing that office completed just two investigations and updated one between October 1, 2008 and March 31, 2009, despite the recent economic crisis and the turbulence in the oil market. The Inspector General of the CFTC, like that of many other regulatory agencies, is not a fully independent office. The position is hired by and serves at the privilege, of the head of the agency it is meant to oversee, making it near impossible for these offices to perform their duty of full oversight of these agencies. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, has introduced legislation that would make the inspectors general of regulatory agencies, like the CFTC, independent - giving them the tools they need to do their jobs and the freedom to act without fear of retribution. This report from the CFTC is further evidence of the immediate need for this legislation. Congressman Larson said, "The inspectors general of our regulatory agencies don't have the independence and resources they need to do their jobs. In a review of some inspectors general, my office found that on average independent offices completed 117 investigations in 2008 - while their non-independent counterparts completed just 12. This report from the Inspector General of the CFTC confirms the conclusions of our survey. The American people have the right to know our regulatory agencies are working in their best interest. I can think of no sector where honesty, independence and transparency are more needed right now than our financial and commodity markets. We must give these inspectors general the tools they need to do their jobs." Congressman Larson has proposed legislation that would elevate the Inspectors General of the CFTC, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Credit Union Administration and Pension and Benefit Guaranty Corporation, giving them the independence and capabilities they need to properly oversee and monitor their respective agencies. Currently these inspectors are hired and function under the supervision of the heads of their respective agencies. This legislation would make them independent entities with the freedom to pursue investigations without fear of repercussion. ###
06.02.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release June 1, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson and MDC Break Ground on Hartford's First Recovery Act Construction Project Larson: "In the coming days and weeks, throughout the Hartford area, road and infrastructure construction projects funded by the Recovery Act will begin." Hartford, CT- Since its passage a little more than 100 days ago, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has provided essential financial relief for American families and businesses and helped fuel technology and infrastructure investments that create jobs and economic stability. Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, spoke at the Metropolitan District Commission (MDC) Homestead Avenue Interceptor Extension Project Groundbreaking Ceremony in Hartford. As part of the MDC's Clean Water Project, this $22.5 million major construction project will protect our environment and keep our rivers clean by reducing sanitary and storm water overflows into the Connecticut River and neighborhoods in Hartford. The first major project in Hartford to proceed with funding from the Recovery Act, The Homestead Avenue project will create over 70 jobs and provide a significant boost of business to minority and women owned businesses in the city. "Congress and President Obama, with the passage of The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, demonstrated the important role infrastructure will play in our nation's economic recovery. With these funds the MDC will create much needed jobs and make essential clean water improvements in Hartford to guarantee our water is safe and our environment is protected," said Congressman Larson. "We are meeting our nation's greatest economic challenges head-on. The Recovery Act has made an immediate impact in providing economic relief to our families and small businesses, and funding to enhance the quality of our schools and public safety." As the peak of the construction season approaches in the Northeast many of the shovel-ready projects funded by the Recovery Act in the state will begin. In the first district, in addition to the MDC project, the Town of East Hartford, with funding from the Recovery Act, will begin pavement rehabilitation construction on portions of Main Street and School Street. The project will provide a safe and pedestrian friendly roadway on highly traveled streets in the town. The construction project, will involve the milling and resurfacing of the existing pavement, as well as installing ADA compliant sidewalk ramps and repairing the storm drainage systems in the project areas. The Federal Highway Administration, as allocated in the Recovery Act, will provide 100% of the project's construction costs, which is approximately $2,260,000 dollars. "In the coming days and weeks, throughout the Hartford area, road and infrastructure construction projects funded by the Recovery Act will begin. These projects will create needed jobs while making essential infrastructure improvements in our region." ###
05.29.2009	For Immediate Release May 29, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Hails Passage of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route as a National Historic Trail Encourages Connecticut Residents to Walk the Revolutionary Route on "Connecticut Trails Day" Hartford, CT- When Congress passed the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009, it marked the most significant land conservation and natural resources bills passed in decades. Signed into law by President Obama, The Public Land Management Act will protect millions of acres of federal land, create 2 million new acres of wilderness, establish three new national parks units, and designate thousands of miles of historic and scenic trails for the National Trails System. In Connecticut, two new National Historic and Scenic Trails were designated, the New England Scenic Trail and the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route (W3R) U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, has a long standing commitment in protecting our nation's natural landscapes and trails. In addition to co-sponsoring legislation to designate the Monadnock, Metacoment and Mattabesett (MMM) Trail System as the New England National Scenic Trail, Congressman Larson, along with Connecticut Senator Joseph Lieberman, introduced legislation directing the National Park Service to submit to Congress a study of the historical significance of W3R. This marked the first step in the process of having the route designated as a National Historic Trail. After meeting with Town of Bolton Historian Hans DePold in April 2000, Larson became involved in the historical preservation of the trail including holding public forums and meetings with constituents on the trail's local and national importance. Congressman Larson unveiled the legislation on July 3rd, 2000 at the Webb Deane Stevens Museum in Wethersfield, the location of the meeting between General George Washington and Count de Rochambeau as they planned their joint military campaign to Yorktown, Virginia. "First and foremost, I would like to thank Bolton Town Historian Hans DePold, the Connecticut Society of the Sons of the American Revolution, Connecticut Historical Commission, and the countless volunteers and organizations across the state and the northeast who vigilantly worked to secure this designation," said Larson. "Our state is home to important moments in American history. As a former history teacher, it is gratifying to help preserve the rich history of Connecticut and our nation with the designation of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route as a National Historic Trail." Landing in Newport, RI on July 1781, Jean Baptiste de Rochambeau led his French troops from Rhode Island through Connecticut to meet General George Washington and his troops in New York en route to attacking the British in Yorktown. In all, W3R is a 600 mile trail stretching nine states, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, Massachusetts, and the District of Columbia. The victory over the British at Yorktown played a crucial role in securing America's victory in the Revolutionary War. With W3R achieving National Historic Trail status, educational signs will map the route throughout the state and in addition, the U.S. Department of the Interior and the National Parks Service will provide administrative authority of the trail. "With the designation, people of all ages will gain a better understanding of our nation's journey to independence through the steps of General Washington, Count Rochambeau, and their armies." On June 6th-7th, the Connecticut Forest & Park Association will host "Connecticut Trails Day". Throughout the state, Connecticut residents can enjoy outdoor activities such as hiking, cycling, and a history walk in our state's parks and trails. Included in the activities are hiking the W3R in Lebanon and a history hike on the importance of the Washington-Rochambeau Revolutionary Route with Bolton Town Historian Hans DePold, and hiking on the Connecticut portion of the New England Scenic Trail. For more information and to receive a brochure highlighting the events and activities across the state on "Connecticut Trails Day", go to Congressman Larson's Website at www.larson.house.gov or the Connecticut Forest & Park Association website at www.ctwoodlands.org. Please click here for the "Connecticut Trails Day 2009" brochure highlighting the weekend's events.
05.29.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release May 26, 2009 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 Larson: An Historic President Makes an Historic Nomination to the Supreme Court Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in response to the announcement of President Barack Obama's nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court. "In making his first nomination to the Supreme Court, President Obama has once again broken historic barriers and proved to young Americans that no matter their background, or the challenges they face, they can achieve their dreams. Judge Sotomayor is a brilliant legal thinker. She will bring to the Supreme Court the qualifications and experiences of a successful career on the bench and a deep, common sense understanding of how judicial decisions impact real people's lives. Her upbringing in a Bronx, NY public housing project gives her a unique view of the issues this country faces and the possibilities for those who believe in the American dream. I urge the Senate to take up her nomination swiftly." ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Larson: Un Histórico Presidente Hace una Histórica Nominación a la Corte Suprema Washington, D.C. - El Congresista John B. Larson (CT-01), Presidente del Comité Democrático de la Casa de Representantes, hizo la siguente declaración en respuesta al nombramiento del Presidente Barack Obama a la Juez Sonia Sotomayor a la Corte Suprema. "En su primer nombramiento a la Corte Suprema, el Presidente Obama ha roto barreras históricas y de nuevo ha demostrado a los jóvenes americanos que no importa sus origenes, o los desafíos que han enfrentado, ellos pueden alcanzar sus sueños. La Juez Sotomayor es una pensadora legal brillante. Ella traerá a la Corte Suprema las calificaciones y las experiencias de una larga carrera en el banco judicial así como una comprensión profunda de cómo las decisiones judiciales afectan las vidas de la gente común. Su experiencia de ser criada en un proyecto de vivienda pública en el Bronx, NY le ha dado una perspectiva única a las cuestiones que el país enfrenta y las posibilidades disponibles a aquellos que creen en el sueño americano. Le insisto al Senado que tome su nombramiento rápidamente."
05.20.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Larson Joins President at Financial Reform Bill Signing Bill includes Larson's Commission on Financial Markets Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, joined President Obama at the White House today as he signed landmark legislation to reform our financial system and protect American consumers. The legislation creates a Financial Markets Inquiry Commission that would investigate the causes of the economic downturn, a provision Larson has been a strong leader and advocate of. "The American people are demanding answers about the collapse of our financial system," said Larson. "As we work to reform and rebuild the financial sector we also need to look back and learn from the mistakes of the past. In the past twenty years, our economy has suffered through the bursting of three major financial bubbles. We can't afford to let that happen again. I've been working on this issue since September when we saw the first signs of collapse in the financial sector. I commend Congress for taking up the legislation and I applaud the President for his support." The commission was part of the Mortgage Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, legislation that provides critical funding and updated tools to help law enforcement pursue and prosecute mortgage and corporate fraud. "Because of the reckless behavior of Wall Street and the mortgage industry, millions of Americans have lost their homes and our economy is in turmoil. With these tools, we'll be able to protect homeowners and keep average Americans from getting tricked into loans they can't afford." The legislation is part of the ongoing Democratic agenda to rebuild our economy in a way that is fair and consistent with our American values - rewarding hard work and responsibility, and offering prosperity for the long run. "We must put an end to the abusive practices that have driven so many Americans deeper and deeper into debt and caused millions to lose their homes. Our economic recovery depends on a shared prosperity, not an overheated housing market or maxed-out credit cards," said Larson. ###
05.12.2009	v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} v\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} o\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} w\:* {behavior:url(#default#VML);} .shape {behavior:url(#default#VML);} Normal 0 false false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 Congressman Larson speaking about the Fair Elections Now Act at the Connecticut Legislative Office. He was joined by Congressmen Courtney and Murphy, Common Cause President Bob Edgar, Speaker of the House Chris Donovan, Speaker Pro Tempore Donald Williams, House Majority Leader Denise Merrill, and members of the Connecticut General Assembly. For Immediate Release May 11, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressmen Larson, Courtney, Murphy and Common Cause President Dr. Bob Edgar Hold Press Conference on Fair Elections Now Act Larson: "It is time to bring real change to Washington" Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, held a press conference to advocate for the passage of the Fair Elections Now Act (HR 1826). Described by experts as "game-changing" legislation, the Fair Elections Now Act would decrease the influence of money in politics and allow candidates more time to work for their people. An original sponsor of the bill, Congressman Larson was joined by co-sponsors U.S. Congressmen Joe Courtney (CT-02) and Chris Murphy (CT-05), as well as National President of Common Cause Dr. Bob Edgar and House and Senate Leadership of the Connecticut General Assembly. Congressman Larson introduced the legislation with Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC ) on March 31st. This bi-partisan legislation will transform how Congressional elections are financed by providing grants and matching funds to qualifying candidates to run their campaigns. Modeled after Connecticut's successful Citizens' Election Program and public financing programs in Arizona, Maine and North Carolina, the Fair Elections Now Act would create a voluntary system where congressional candidates would limit their campaign spending to the amounts raised from small donors and matching funds from the newly created Fair Elections Fund. "States across the country have acted as laboratories for reforms like the Fair Elections Now Act," said Congressman Larson. "Connecticut's first general election under its new system was effective and successful, with 81% of the members elected to the state legislature using the system. States have shown overwhelming success in reducing the influence of big donors. Lawmakers are able to tend to the business of their constituents rather than spending their time dialing for dollars. It is time to bring real change to Washington." "President Obama showed us all how small donations and average Americans can make a difference in an election. With the Fair Elections Now Act, we can bring that sort of grassroots enthusiasm and involvement to our Congressional races." Every member of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation has signed on as a co-sponsor of Congressman Larson's legislation. "The State of Connecticut has been a leader in campaign finance reform, and I was proud to help kick-off the debate when I was in the state legislature," said Congressman Courtney. "There is room for improvement in federal elections and Connecticut's experience is now being used to lead the discussion in Washington." "With Congressman Larson's leadership as the Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, I am optimistic that, as we did in Connecticut, we can make the case in Washington that it's time to change the way we finance our federal campaigns, said Congressman Murphy. "This system would not only level the playing field for candidates of lower economic status; it would also limit the influence of large contributors, corporations, and special interest groups in elections, and help restore the integrity and transparency of the entire process." The Fair Elections Now Act has received support from respected national and local organizations including the NAACP, SEIU, League of Women Voters and most notably, Common Cause. "Americans are tired of their elected representatives being indebted to the wealthy donors and special interests who paid for their campaigns," said Bob Edgar, President and CEO of Common Cause. "As you know in Connecticut, ‘clean elections' puts elected officials in office with no strings attached, and the public's interest at the top of the agenda." Below you will find a fact sheet about how the Fair Elections Act Now works: -It's voluntary - no candidate for Congress is compelled to use this system. -The Fair Elections Fund will be funded by ten percent of revenues generated through the auction of unused broadcast spectrum and is revenue neutral. -Candidates must raise a minimum level of small individual contributions in order to qualify for the program. -After qualifying, candidates will abide by various restrictions and disclosure requirements. -Qualified candidates will receive an up-front grant for their primary campaigns, and if nominated, another grant for their general election campaign. -Candidates will also receive a 4:1 match for contributions of $100 or less from an individual; no individual may give more than $100; that match will stop after a certain spending level is reached, but candidates may continue to raise donations of up to $100 per individual without a match. -There is no overall spending limit. Candidates may continue to raise funds after they have reached the cap on their match. -A new commission will administer the program, including the disbursal of funds and collection of reports. -Coordinated expenditures with party organizations will be permitted up to an amount equal to a small percentage of the public grant. -No contributions, fundraising, or bundling will be allowed from PACs. -There will be special provisions for candidates in uncontested races (at significantly lower funding levels). -Participating candidates could take only individual contributions of $100 or less for their leadership PACs. ###
04.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 28, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202.225.7295 CONGRESSMAN LARSON STATEMENT ON EQUAL PAY DAY Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, made the following statement today in honor of Equal Pay Day: “In these difficult economic times it is particularly important that every member of our workforce gets paid and treated fairly. Today, on Equal Pay Day, I pay tribute to all of the women who fought not to accept a lower salary than their male counterparts, who brought attention to their plight and are still working to this day to crack the glass ceiling and ensure that their daughters get the pay they deserve. “As Senate President in Connecticut, I sponsored equal pay legislation that would make sure women got paid the same wage for doing the same work as a man. I am so proud to see how far we have come in this fight, passing legislation not only on the state level but also at the national level this year. “The first piece of legislation President Obama signed into law was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. Mrs. Ledbetter fought all the way to the Supreme Court for the right to sue her employers for back pay after years of earning less than her male colleagues. When the Supreme Court turned her away, Congress stepped in to make sure that no other women are denied the right to correct this type of discrimination. “As a father of two daughters, I take this issue very seriously and I know that our fight is not over. Women in this country can be CEO’s of top companies; Speaker of the House; Secretary of State…the list goes on. They should never have to face pay discrimination based on their gender.” ###
04.27.2009	Below you will find helpful information and links on the H1N1 Flu, also known as Swine Flu. This webpage and the resources below will be updated daily. If you have any questions feel free to contact Congressman Larson's Office at 860-278-8888 or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at 1-800-CDC-INFO. Quick Facts on How to Stay Healthy Cover your nose and mouth with a tissue when you cough or sneeze. Throw the tissue out after using it. Wash your hands frequently with soap and water, especially after you cough or sneeze. Alcohol-based sanitizers are also acceptable. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, or mouth, as this is the way germs spread Avoid close contact with sick people as the flu is spread mainly person-to-person by coughing and sneezing If you get sick, the CDC recommends staying home from work or school and limit interaction with others. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) General Information about H1N1 Influenza Frequently Asked Questions (English) Frequently Asked Questions (Spanish) U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Pandemicflu.gov- One-stop access to U.S. Government H1N1, avian and pandemic flu information World Health Organization (WHO) H1N1 Flu Website Epidemic and Pandemic Alert and Response-Current WHO Phase Pandemic Alert
04.24.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman","serif";} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 23, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202.225.7295 CONGRESSMAN LARSON INTRODUCES BILL TO TRAIN WORKERS FOR THE JOBS OF THE FUTURE Washington, DC - Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, along with more than 15 other members of Congress, introduced legislation that will help train our workforce for the jobs of the future and boost our economy. The Community College Technology Access Act will open the doors of community college technology labs and training opportunities to the public in order to provide workers who are lacking key computer skills the opportunity to attain them. Congressman Larson said, "By broadening their mission, community colleges have the potential to be a hub to train our workforce for the jobs of the future. With this legislation we are helping them fulfill their potential and boost local economies around the country." Community colleges can reach every corner of this country with more than 1100 campuses in rural, urban and suburban areas. Congressman Larson's legislation is based on a proposal developed by Dr. Rob Shapiro, Chair of NDN's Globalization Initiative, to use our community colleges as efficient, cost-effective training grounds for our workforce. "Chairman Larson has again shown that he understands the need to provide America's workers with the skills to succeed in the competitive global economy, particularly during these tough economic times," Shapiro said. "The Community College Technology Access Act is a cost-effective investment that will help workers get ahead. Tens of millions of Americans graduated high school or even attended college in the years before computers and the Internet became ubiquitous. Many of them are now entering, or are already in, what should be their most productive and highest- earning years. But without basic information technology skills, many workers are trapped in dead-end jobs, and as non-wired employment becomes obsolete, they face being locked out of the mainstream workforce entirely." The legislation would provide funding to community colleges that offer technology training and open their computer labs to the public for at least 30 hours each week. The legislation has the support of the Association of Community College Trustees and the American Association of Community Colleges. Then- Senator Barack Obama included a similar idea as part of his platform during the campaign for the presidency. A recent poll shows that only 53 percent of low-income Americans use the internet or email. Without the skills to use this technology, these workers are boxed out of opportunities in the high growth industries that will lead the country out of this recession. By providing them with training opportunities we are opening doors to fulfilling careers, while boosting our local economies. ###
04.17.2009	For Immediate Release April 17, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds (860)278-8888 Left to Right (MDC CEO Chuck Sheehan, MDC Chairman William DiBella, CT DEP Deputy Commissioner Amey Marrella, Acting Deputy Regional Administrator Stephen Perkins of EPA Region 1, U.S. Congressman John Larson) Larson, Federal and State Environmental Officials Announce Recovery Funding for Clean Water Projects Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson joined U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, (EPA) Region 1 Acting Deputy Regional Administrator Stephen Perkins and Deputy Commissioner Amey Marrella of the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) to announce funding that will improve the state’s environment and the health of its residents. The State of Connecticut will receive $48,010,300 of federal funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to the Connecticut Clean Water Fund for improvements to the state’s water quality and help protect the state’s rivers and natural resources. Administered by the EPA, the federal funding was provided to Connecticut’s Clean Water Fund. The announcement was made at the Metropolitan District Commission (MDC) Water Pollution Control Facility in Hartford. The Connecticut Clean Water Fund, administrated by DEP and the Office of the Treasurer, is one of the nation’s most successful clean water programs. The fund provides grants and loans to finance clean water projects such as improvements to municipal sewer systems and wastewater treatment plants. “I am proud to join the U.S. Department of Environmental Protection to announce the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection will receive $48 million dollars to protect our state’s water supply. As a Connecticut State Senator, I fought for the passage of the Connecticut Clean Water Fund, as a means to keep our residents and our environment safe. Now more than 20 years later, the Connecticut Clean Water Fund serves as a national model,” said Larson. “President Obama and the United States Congress has set forth a path forward for our nation with the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. During these difficult economic times, we can restore economic stability and ensure the safety of our citizens and our environment at the same time. With these funds, much needed jobs are created, while essential clean water improvements, in Hartford and throughout the state, are made to guarantee the water is safe and our environment is protected.” Amey Marrella, Deputy Commissioner of the Connecticut DEP said, “These federal dollars for our Clean Water Fund (CWF) are a perfect use of stimulus funds. This money will support local waste water treatment systems, create much-needed jobs, protect our environment and make lasting improvements to our state. We will also be building on the impressive investment the state of Connecticut has made, in partnership with our cities and towns, to protect the quality of our waters for ourselves and future generations.” Also announced at the press conference, the Connecticut DEP will receive $1.73 million through the Recovery Act State Clean Diesel Grant program. The funding will be used to retrofit the Connecticut Department of Transportation’s fleet of diesel vehicles and construction equipment, replace a high-emitted diesel locomotive engine on the New Haven-Providence-Worcester line, and establish a truck stop electrification parking area in New Haven to alleviate emissions caused by idle trucks. ###
04.16.2009	For Immediate Release April 16, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Congressman Larson Announces Federal Grant to Hartford Fire Department Largest Grant Ever Received by an Area Fire Department Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the Hartford Fire Department will receive a federal grant of $800,000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. The funding, the largest fire grant received by an area fire department in the eight year history of the program, will be used to upgrade the Hazmat capabilities of the department on both the operational and technician levels. The fire department will become certified to aggressively stop the release or potential release of hazardous material. This grant is in addition to the grant announced in January to the Hartford Fire Department for $240,800 toward the purchase of a new fire pumper. "I am proud to announce the Hartford Fire Department will receive the largest fire grant this area has received in the history of the program. With the funding, the city will increase their ability to aggressively respond and react to hazardous material accidents," said Larson. "According to the U.S. Department of Transportation, in 2008, Connecticut ranked second in New England in Hazmat incidents, more than New Hampshire, Maine, Rhode Island, and Vermont combined. We must ensure the safety of the public and our firefighters by providing them with the necessary equipment and training to manage hazardous material incidents." Hartford Fire Chief Charles A. Teale said, "With the resources acquired through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program, the Hartford Fire Department has received worldwide recognition in the field of geographical information systems and last month renewed our Class 1 rating through the Insurances Services Office. Our most recent award symbolizes a paradigm shift in the level of protection available for Hazardous Material response. I would like to personally thank Congressman John Larson for his efforts. Because of him, a safer more effective means of saving lives will soon be possible through the Great Hartford Fire Department." The Assistance to Firefighters program provides grants and funding for training and equipment for our nation's fire departments and first responders. "The men and women who serve and protect our communities and families deserve our support and admiration. I will continue to support the Assistance to Firefighters grant program, as it enhances the security of the residents, and the response capabilities of the first responders in Hartford and throughout the First Congressional District," said Larson Please click here for a fact sheet on the Assistance to Firefighters Program.
04.15.2009	For Immediate Release April 14, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds (860) 278-8888 Congressman Larson and Academy Award-winning Actress Marcia Gay Harden(Photo Courtesy of MaryEllen Fillo/Hartford Courant) Congressman Larson Joins Academy Award-Winner Marcia Gay Harden for Launch of We Work For Health Connecticut Larson Highlights Legislation to Increase Breast Cancer Awareness Hartford, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson joined Academy Award-winning actress and cancer patient advocate Marcia Gay Harden, and members of the Connecticut General Assembly for the official launch of We Work For Health Connecticut. A network of state-based partners including, Connecticut United for Research Excellence, The Sheet Metal Workers Union, and Pfizer, We Work for Health Connecticut is dedicated to protecting and fostering medical innovation in the United States and in Connecticut. In a new report released by the organization at today's press conference, Connecticut is a national leader in the development of new medicines to treat or prevent cancer. According to the report, over 70 medicines are currently being developed by Connecticut based companies. Congressman Larson spoke at the press conference in support of the EARLY Act, which is sponsored by U.S. Congresswoman and cancer-survivor Debbie Wasserman Schultz. "I am proud and honored to be a cosponsor of the EARLY Act, introduced by my colleague Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida. Congresswoman Schultz, a mother of three, waged a courageous and successful battle against breast cancer, a gallant fight she described recently in the Miami Herald. She felt it was important to speak about this issue, and make the public, and most importantly young women, aware of the need for early diagnosis." "Over a sixteen month period, unbeknownst to her fellow Members of Congress, she underwent several operations. Throughout the ordeal, she continued to serve her district, state, and our nation in the halls of the House." "Because of her knowledge of this disease, Congresswoman Wasserman Schultz understood that due to her genetic makeup, there was a high possibility the cancer would reoccur. The awareness and knowledge of the cancer and the affect on her body enabled Congresswoman Wassermann Schultz to aggressively fight the disease." "The EARLY Act will create a national framework of educational outreach and services programs to combat breast cancer from a preventative and awareness standpoint. Young women across the nation will learn the importance of early prevention and awareness" "I'm honored to be here today, and I want to assure the residents of Connecticut and across this nation, The Obama Administration and Congress are focused to provide universal access to health care, with prevention and wellness at the front burner." In 2008, the American Cancer Society projected 182,460 new cases of breast cancer in females with an estimated 10,000 of these women being under 40 years of age. The EARLY ACT (Education and Awareness Requires Learning Young Act), introduced by Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz, will provide funding to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to create a national evidence-based campaign consisting of: •o A media campaign targeting younger women to educate them on the risk factors for breast cancer •o Grants to state agencies to develop better breast cancer awareness materials for young women in high school and college •o An education campaign for health care professionals to increase awareness of risk factors and understanding of genetic risks The bill also will provide funding to the CDC to: •o Conduct breast cancer research on younger women to better understand the psychological and behavioral impacts of a breast cancer diagnosis •o Examine physician and public knowledge on breast cancer risk factors. For more information on the legislation and Congresswoman Wasserman Shultz's battle with breast cancer, please click here ###
04.14.2009	For Immediate Release April 13, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds: 860-278-8888 Connecticut to Receive $12 Million From the Community Services Block Grant Recovery Act Funding to Aid State Hartford, CT-Today, The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and U.S. Congressman John B. Larson, Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, announced the State of Connecticut will receive $12,060,854 from the Community Services Block Grant (CSBG). The funding was provided under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA). Nationwide, $1 billion in new funds was released under the Recovery Act through the CSBG; the funding is in addition to the approximately $750 million distributed from the CSBG to states in the Fiscal Year 2009 budget. "The community services block grant provides the necessary funding to help with the economic and health plights within our States and cities. The Obama Administration and Congress understand the inevitable link between economic downturns and the need for quality and essential programs to address the needs of low-income individuals and families," said Larson. "This funding will provide the short term relief and long term assistance needed in our current economic situation by generating employment opportunities and meeting the nutrition and health needs of our state and cities' most vulnerable residents." Administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Community Services Block Grant program provides funding to services and activities that directly address employment, education, housing, nutrition and health services of low income individuals and families as well as the homeless and the elderly. The Connecticut Department of Social Services directs the majority of the CSBG funding to local community action groups such as the Connecticut Renewal Team; an anti-poverty agency based in Hartford. The organization uses the funding to address the childcare needs of Hartford's youth and seniors through the HeadStart, Meals on Wheels, and other programs. ###
04.09.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} For Immediate Release April 6th, 2009 CONGRESSMAN LARSON PRESENTS LOCAL WWII VETERAN WITH MILITARY MEDALS Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson presented World War II veteran and Windsor Locks resident Elmer E. Jones, 85 with military medals to honor his service to our country. Mr. Jones was the recipient of eight medals including the Presidential Unit Citation for extraordinary heroism and the European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal w/ 3 Bronze service stars. Congressman Larson was joined by Steve Wawruck, First Selectman of Windsor Locks. Mr. Jones was accompanied by his wife of nearly sixty years Lillian, and three of his children, Claudia Condon, Priscilla Serafin, and Robert Jones. “It is an honor to present Mr. Jones with these medals. Medals he earned through brave and exceptional service during the Second World War. Mr. Jones served in one of the most famous military divisions during World War II”, said Larson. “Elmer Jones and his fellow veterans of the “Greatest Generation” defended the principles of our nation, freedom and liberty for all and it is a great pleasure to help honor that service.” Mr. Jones served as a Private First Class in the United States Army from 1943-1946 with the 88th Reconnaissance Squadron, nicknamed “The Thundering Herd”, of the 8th Armored Division. The Division entered Germany in late February 1945 and participated in an attack near Reinberg and Wessel that prevented Nazi troops from crossing the Rhine River. Mr. Jones and the Division later liberated a Nazi Death Camp Halberstadt-Wieberge, a sub camp of the Buchenwald concentration camp. To honor that feat, a flag representing Mr. Jones’ division is proudly displayed at the U.S. Holocaust Museum. Mr. Jones’ wife, Lillian Jones, contacted Congressman Larson’s Hartford District Office for assistance in replacing Mr. Jones’ military medals. Congressman Larson wrote a letter to the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) on December 15th, 2008, requesting replacement of four medals. After receiving Larson’s letter and reviewing Mr. Jones’ military history, the NPRC concluded, that in addition to replacing Mr. Jones’ four military medals, he was due four additional medals for his service. “There is no greater fulfillment than to assist our veterans in receiving the military medals they rightfully deserve for their service to our country.” Mr. Jones was presented with the following medals: Good Conduct Medal Presidential Unit Citation American Campaign Medal European-African-Middle Eastern Campaign Medal w/ 3 bronze service stars World War II Victory Medal Army of Occupation Medal w/ Germany clasp Honorable Service Lapel Button WWII Marksman Badge w/ Carbine Bar ### Military medals earned by Mr. Elmer Jones of East Windsor, CT Congressman Larson with Elmer and Lillian Jones of East Windsor, CT
04.08.2009	For Immediate Release April 4, 2009 1st District Towns to Receive over $50 Million of Emergency Education Funding from ARRA Hartford, CT- The U.S Department of Education has announced emergency education funding has been released to help save jobs among our local teachers, maintain essential programs for low-income students and students with disabilities, and protect harmful cuts to education by stabilizing state and local budgets. The funding is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) passed by Congress to begin our economic recovery. ARRA will provide educational funding in the Title I and IDEA programs which helps low-income and students with disabilities. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, is pleased to report the First Congressional District will receive approximately $20 million in additional Title I funding and $30 million in IDEA funding. In addition, the State of Connecticut will receive approximately $541 million from the state stabilization fund that will be used to stabilize state and local budgets. “Our current economic crisis is taking a toll on our children. With teachers forced to the unemployment lines and educational funding drastically cut due to state and municipal budgets, the future of our youth is at stake. This funding will save hundreds of teaching jobs and improve quality of education.” Please click here for a complete breakdown of Title I and IDEA funding towns and schools in the First District will receive from ARRA. “I am especially proud that additional funding is being allocated for the IDEA program. Every child in our nation deserves to receive a quality education”. The IDEA program provides funding to states for the education of children with disabilities. Since IDEA became law in 1975, the federal government has underfunded the program, thus forcing local municipalities to pick up the tab. Congressman Larson has sponsored the Full Funding for IDEA Now Act that would require the federal government to fully fund its share of the IDEA program. The Department of Education also released applications and guidelines to states and municipalities for the Title I, IDEA and state stabilization programs. The Title I and IDEA funding will be distributed in two rounds, with the first round of funding available this week. The first round of funding for the state stabilization program will be available to states within two weeks of an application’s approval. “I applaud the Department of Education for understanding the importance of quickly releasing this funding. Only bold action will help our state and our nation climb out of this cavernous economic hole.” During the upcoming district work, Congressman Larson will focus on the economic recovery. He will host a meeting with the Chief Elected Officials and school superintendents of the cities and towns within the First Congressional District. The meeting will allow Congressman Larson to hear feedback from the perspective of our local leaders on how the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will advance our schools and help alleviate local budget burdens. “This week, I will meet with the mayors, first selectman, and school superintendents of the 1st District to further discuss how the stimulus funding will improve our educational system and assist in balancing their local budgets.” ###
04.08.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} Congressman Larson’s FY 2010 Federal Funding Requests Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} President Barack Obama and Congressional Democrats are committed to providing our citizens with a transparent and honest approach to federal funding requests. The local projects requested by Congressman Larson will help grow Connecticut’s economy, create jobs and protect our constituents. By clicking on the link below, you will find descriptions of the programs this office has requested funding for on behalf of the constituents of the First Congressional District. Fiscal Year 2010 Federal Funding Request
04.08.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-fareast; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 6, 2009 LARSON RESPONDS TO PROPOSED DEFENSE CUTS TO F-22 PROGRAM Washington, DC – Today, the Defense Department announced their outline for the FY2010 defense budget, which included major cuts to programs like the F-22 fifth generation fighter plane. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: “The defense budget that Secretary Robert Gates announced today offers some promising developments and reforms in defense acquisitions, but it also laid the groundwork for one change that I am extremely concerned about. The drastic cutback of the F-22 program would mean serious economic consequences and negatively impact national security for the entire nation. I will work with my colleagues to protect this program that is absolutely vital to Connecticut’s workforce. “The F-22 is the only fifth generation air dominance fighter plane in use today. It represents a technical and tactical achievement for our military that will be particularly important to protect our homeland against the emerging threats. Ending this program will seriously limit our Air Force and leave us vulnerable in military conflicts that could arise. Keeping the technical know-how and manufacturing ability in Connecticut, and the 43 other states that help build this advanced aircraft, is incredibly important to our future national security. “Maintaining a robust manufacturing base is also vital to our local and national economy as we see good jobs disappear and average Americans face tough times because of mistakes made by paper-pushers on Wall Street. Connecticut has always been a leader in high-tech manufacturing and we pride ourselves on being home to jobs where real Americans make real products that help our nation and advance our economy. The curtailment of the F-22 program could mean a loss of nearly 100,000 jobs across 44 states. Our nation cannot afford that kind of blow right now, not when we are experiencing such severe crises in other parts of our manufacturing sector like the auto industry. We must smooth the transition to the high-tech manufacturing economy that will mean prosperity for this nation for generations to come, not deal our manufacturing industry another fatal blow. “We have been through this before. The Pentagon makes a recommendation then Congress acts. We have won this fight before and we will win it again and keep these jobs in Connecticut.” ###
03.23.2009	March 23rd 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 Larson Announces Bradley International Airport To Receive $8 Million From ARRA Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson(CT-01) announced that Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks will receive $8 million dollars from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The funding, allocated by the U.S. Department of Transportation, will be used to repair a runway at the 62 year old airport. "Bradley International Airport serves as Southern New England's gateway to the world. This funding will not only improve the airport's infrastructure, but will also save and create jobs during our tough economic times," said Larson. Bradley International Airport is served by fifteen airlines, including nine major cargo carriers. There are approximately 18,000 full-time employees who are directly or indirectly dependent on the airport. "The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act offers the short term help and long term solutions needed for the state. Bradley generates over $4 billion dollars of economic activity every year. By making this critical investment in our state's major hub of commerce and transportation, we boldly set the path toward increasing the overall economic strength of the state and our region." ###
03.17.2009	March 17, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/ 860-278-8888 LARSON: AIG HAS ABUSED THE TRUST OF AMERICA'S TAXPAYERS Washington D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson issued the following statement concerning AIG using taxpayer funds to pay executive bonuses: "This must stop now. AIG has abused the trust of America's taxpayers far too many times. Congress must act immediately to recover the unearned and undeserved bonuses paid to AIG employees who helped create the crisis faced by our financial system and our economy. I have met with the Speaker and other Democratic leaders on this issue. We will be bringing legislation this week to recover taxpayer funds and, during the coming weeks, will institute further restrictions on the use of these funds by companies receiving Federal aid." "In the past month, I have called for new leadership on Wall Street. This is stark evidence that we need more and deeper reform in addition to new and responsible leadership to help restore trust in the financial system." ###
03.12.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE March 12, 2009 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON, OBAMA ANNOUNCE $102.85 MIL IN WEATHERIZATION FUNDING FOR CT Washington, DC – The White House announced today that $8 billion in Weatherization funding will begin to be released to states over the next few days. More than $100 million of this funding will come to Connecticut. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, responded to the announcement. “Investing in Weatherization Assistance and the State Energy Program is one of the best ways to get money to the families that need it most. This money will help families lower their energy bills, it will put hardworking Americans back to work, help the environment, and it will put us on a path towards greater energy independence. As part of our American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, this money will offer short term help to Americans who have lost their job or are having trouble making ends meet, and long term solutions to end our dependence on foreign oil. “Investing in green industries is one of the most responsible and effective ways we can grow our economy in the long term. It brings money and jobs directly to our local economy. Fixing our economic problems won’t happen overnight. It will take time and a lot of hard work to repair the damage that has been done to our economy. But, with efforts like the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the Weatherization Program, we are making great progress.” Background: The DOE’s Weatherization Assistance Program allows low-income families to reduce their energy bills by making their homes more energy efficient, reducing heating bills by an average of 32% and overall energy bills by hundreds of dollars per year.This funding will allow the Weatherization Assistance Program to increase the average investment to up to $6,500 per home in energy efficiency upgrades and expand eligibility to families making up to 200% of the federal poverty level – or about $44,000 a year for a family of four. The increased funding and expanded eligibility will help an additional 17,000 Connecticut households save on heating and cooling costs.The State Energy Program funding will be available for rebates to consumers for home energy audits or other energy saving improvements; development of renewable energy projects for clean electricity generation and alternative fuels; efficiency upgrades for state and local government buildings; and other innovative state efforts to help save families money on their energy bills. ###
03.10.2009	March 6, 2009 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 CONNECTICUT TO RECEIVE ALMOST $20.6 MIL IN CRIMINAL JUSTICE GRANT FUNDS Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) is pleased to report that the White House announced today that Connecticut will receive $20,593,268 in grant funds for criminal justice programs throughout the state. $12,479,843 of that money will go to the state. The rest will go directly to the local towns and cities. (See below for a breakdown of the direct funds towns within Connecticut's first district will receive.) The money is being distributed through the Edward Byrne Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program. This program supports initiatives to prevent and control crime and improve the criminal justice system. JAG funds can be used for state and local initiatives, technical assistance, training, personnel, equipment, supplies, contractual support, and information systems for criminal justice for any one or more of the following purpose areas: law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment programs; and planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs. Congressman Larson said, "Our police officers and criminal justice system make up the backbone of our communities. In these tough economic times I know funds are stretched thin, shifts are cut and the job of fighting crime on our streets becomes more difficult. I am glad that a portion of the money from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will go to preserve and even grow our frontline criminal justice programs. These funds will not only keep us safe in our neighborhoods, but they will create jobs and improve our economic security as well." JAG Funding for Towns in Connecticut's First District: · Berlin - $18,147 · Bloomfield - $55,837 · Bristol - $172,047 · Cromwell - $13,959 · East Hartford - $225,092 · East Windsor - $21,288 · Glastonbury - $18,496 · Hartford - $1,529,576 · Manchester - $140,639 · Middletown - $58,280 · Newington - $24,080 · Rocky Hill - $25,475 · South Windsor - $18,496 · Southington - $27,220 · Torrington - $97,714 · West Hartford - $113,418 · Wethersfield - $34,549 · Winchester - $20,241 · Windsor Locks - $12,912 · Windsor - $26,173
03.10.2009	March 5, 2009 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON WELCOMES FIRST $137.5 MILLION IN TRANSPORTATION RECOVERY FUNDS TO CONNECTICUT Hartford, CT - The White House and the Department of Transportation announced that the first $137,526,347 in American Recovery and Reinvestment Act transportation funds will be released today to Connecticut. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) welcomed this infusion of funds and the jobs it will bring to the first district. The city of Hartford will directly receive nearly $30 million for transportation projects and an additional almost $500,000 for rail improvements. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is expected to create 41,000 new jobs in Connecticut. "Connecticut, like many other parts of this nation, has seen the terrible effects of the current recession. Many of our neighbors and friends have been laid off. And, thousands are losing their homes or their health care. Today, we begin to turn that around with funds that offer short term help to our current crisis and long term solutions to keep our economy strong. The $137.5 million that is coming to our state, and particularly the almost $30.5 million that is already slated to go directly to Hartford, will go a long way to boost our local economy. It will put the men and women in our construction industry to work on projects that will benefit our area in the long run. And, it will create demand for all of the businesses that supply equipment and support to our transportation industry, infusing money into the every sector of our economy. " From the $137,526,347 the following amounts will be distributed to the cities and municipalities according to formulas in the law: · $101.5 million in grants from public transportation capital investments in urban areas. Hartford will get nearly $30 million of that. · $4 million for transit capital assistance to rural and small urban public transportation systems. · $32 million for capital projects to modernize or improve our rail systems, including about $500,000 to Hartford.
03.05.2009	CONGRESSMAN LARSON INTRODUCES CARBON TAX LEGISLATION Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced legislation today that would tackle our climate change crisis while protecting hard working Americans from rising energy costs. The carbon tax legislation will put a tax on the producer of carbon emissions and pass the revenue on to working Americans as a payroll tax rebate. "I believe that the best way to address climate change is the way that is simplest and most transparent," said Larson. "Unlike a cap and trade system, my carbon tax would create no complex new bureaucracies or complicated auction schemes. Rescuing our environment should not be an excuse to create a new market for investors to exploit. We've seen the impact of rampant speculation and out of control derivative trading on our energy market, our housing market, and our stock market. Our planet is too precious to put in the hands of Wall Street executives looking to make a profit." Instead of creating a market that would be a boon for Wall Street, Larson's legislation would create a tax cut that would be a boon for working Americans. A recent study found that the auction a cap and trade system would create would lead to the world's largest derivative market. Warren Buffet wrote in his letter to shareholders this week that derivatives are dangerous and impossible to regulate. In fact, some companies are already trading carbon credit derivatives in anticipation of a cap and trade system. Larson said, "if we haven't been able to properly regulate derivatives so far, what makes us think we would be able to regulate carbon credit derivatives? We are suffering the effects of one speculative bubble bursting now. The American people simply do not want another system they might have to bailout." The American people want their government to level with them. They understand that any climate change policy we enact will increase energy costs. So, rather than hide those costs in a complicated auction system, Larson's legislation is simple and straightforward. It would put a $15 per metric ton tax on carbon at the source - the mine mouth, refinery or point of importation - in the first year, increasing $10 per year after that. The revenue would be distributed right away to hard working Americans and alternative energy investment. "I have yet to meet one person who can explain a cap and trade auction in a way that someone at Augie and Ray's, my local diner, could understand," said Larson. "But, a carbon tax is a simple solution that people can wrap their arms around." A carbon tax also offers the benefit of price certainty to American families and small businesses. A cap and trade system could lead to wild fluctuations in energy prices, making it hard for families and businesses to plan and budget. By regularly monitoring emissions and adjusting the rate of taxation, as this legislation does, it can also provide some certainty in emissions reduction. Congressman Larson's carbon tax legislation fits within the broad framework the Obama Administration laid out in its budget outline. It would use the revenue of a new climate change policy to pass tax savings on to the consumer and help impacted industries. "We agree on the goal, the debate is over the mechanism," said Larson. ###
03.04.2009	March 4, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds/860-278-8888 Hartford, CT -U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that the Winsted Volunteer Fire Department will receive a federal grant award of $35,910 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. With the funding, Winsted will be able to retrofit its firehouses with a diesel exhaust extraction system designed to protect the fire fighters and the surrounding community from airborne contamination. The installation of the system will make the department compliant with U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration (OSHA) standards. Congressman Larson supported Winsted's application for the Assistance to Firefighters Grant. "I'm pleased to announce this federal funding award to the Town of Winsted and its fire department. First responders deserve our support and admiration for their tireless work on behalf of our families and our communities," said Larson. "Every day, workers and citizens across the nation are exposed to the dangers of diesel exhaust. This funding will protect the firefighters and the communities surrounding the fire department from the adverse health effects caused by this invasive airborne containment." "The Assistance to Firefighters Grant program provides the necessary funding to allow firefighters to do their job safely. I continue to support the funding of this vital and necessary program." According to OSHA, individuals exposed to diesel exhaust can face the risk of health effects ranging from headaches and nausea to cancer and respiratory disease. Please click here for a fact sheet on the Assistance to Firefighters Program.
03.01.2009	February 26, 2009 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888 Larson Names Local Students to the First Congressional Youth Advisory Cabinet Larson: "Together, we can be a strong catalyst for our most promising policies affecting children and youth" Hartford, CT- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced the first official class of students who will serve on the First Congressional District Youth Cabinet. This historic announcement will transform the role the youth of Connecticut will have with their government. The youth cabinet, the first youth advisory board of its kind in the nation, will serve as an advisory board to Congressman Larson on issues facing young Americans across the nation. The creation of the cabinet will help foster a stronger relationship between the young people of the district and their government and give them an unique prospective on public service. The enhanced exposure provided to the cabinet members to their government and their elected officials will allow them to share the value of public service with their peers. "Elected officials have not fully utilized the voice of our youth. All across the country, governments on the municipal, state, and federal levels, create legislation that directly affects the well-being of our youth" said Larson. "With much expected of them, it is imperative that our leaders provide the youth of our nation a meaningful role in the creation of policies affecting their everyday lives. I am proud to do so today, by naming the inaugural class of the first congressional youth cabinet in the country" The youth cabinet is a non-partisan, non-political entity consisting of youth from the cities and towns within the First Congressional District. Members of the cabinet are between the ages of thirteen and eighteen years old and were nominated by their town's superintendent of schools or their high school principal to serve on the cabinet for a two year term. "As a former teacher, I believe in the incredible talents that exist in every young person. I was truly impressed with the qualifications and backgrounds of this group. They are exceptional students in and out of the classroom, active members of their community, and upstanding citizens of goodwill. Together, we can be a strong catalyst for our most promising policies affecting children and youth." The following are the members of the inaugural First Congressional Youth Cabinet: Name Grade City High School Breana Vessichio Senior Berlin Berlin High Carson Collier Senior Berlin Berlin High Calvin Brown Sophomore Bristol Bristol Eastern High Kristen Weglarz Senior Bristol Bristol Central High Amanda Hernandez Sophomore Bloomfield Bloomfield High Andrew Coleman-Hooker Sophomore Bloomfield Bloomfield High Matt Ryan Senior East Hartford East Hartford High Nathan Marques-Hendley Junior East Hartford East Hartford High David Schwegman Junior Granby Granby Memorial High Sara Miltenberger Sophomore Granby Granby Memorial High Kara Googins Sophomore Glastonbury Glastonbury High Robert Hogan Sophomore Glastonbury Glastonbury High Emmanuel Morales Senior Hartford Law and Government Academy Xiomara Colon Senior Hartford Law and Government Academy Angela Dunham Senior Hartford Weaver Name Grade City High School Robin Waring Freshman New Hartford Northwestern Regional #7 Nicole Iacobucci Freshman Newington Newington High Nicholas Grondin Freshman Newington Newington High Samantha Iacobucci Junior Newington Newington High Kyle Kibby Junior North Granby Granby High Keenen Kelley Junior Portland Portland High Logan Manning Junior Portland Portland High Isabelle Palumbo Junior Southington Southington High Alex Torres Junior South Windsor South Windsor High Saagar Pandit Senior South Windsor South Windsor High Gabrielle Franza Senior Rocky Hill Rocky Hill High Andrew John Duarte Senior Rocky Hill Rocky Hill High Jeff Pawlak Senior West Hartford Conard High Kenneth Brand Junior West Hartford Hall High Sam Cantor Senior West Hartford Hall High Alexander Tougas Junior Wethersfield Wethersfield High Bridget Cloonan Junior Wethersfield Wethersfield High Nathan Ramsey Junior Windsor Windsor High Sheryl Comer Junior Windsor Windsor High Sarah Hague Freshman Winsted Northwestern Regional #7
01.29.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin-top:0in; mso-para-margin-right:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:10.0pt; mso-para-margin-left:0in; line-height:115%; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 29, 2009 CONTACT: Emily Barocas 202.225.7295 LARSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO EXAMINE CAUSES OF FINANCIAL DOWNTURN Washington, DC - This week, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, introduced legislation that would create a commission to investigate the true causes of the economic crisis our country is suffering through. Congressman Larson said, "We have been addressing the symptoms of our financial crisis rather than curing the disease because we don't have a good diagnosis. The American people have lost their homes, jobs and health care as this recession has hit communities across the country. Journalists, pundits, lawmakers, and most importantly the American people have all raised the question of how we got here. We must answer those questions." This legislation is a major step forward. It would create a nonpartisan, congressionally appointed commission to determine what caused this financial crisis and what can we do to keep it from happening again. The commission would report back to Congress within 90 days on the tax ramifications of the current crisis, and the legislative and oversight environment that led to it. It would look, for example, at the regulation of the derivative markets and mortgage-backed securities to determine if they are regulated properly and if complex and unstable financial products like these make us vulnerable in a global economy. It would investigate the effectiveness and transparency of our regulatory agencies, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC). Larson said, "Did our regulatory agencies turn a blind eye to market manipulation and unethical behavior? Are new markets being monitored with outdated regulation? These are all questions the Commission would answer." The Commission would also advise lawmakers on the content of an "investors' bill of rights" that could then be turned into legislation. It would protect average Americans' 401(k)s, pensions and savings from corporate greed and mismanagement. The ultimate goal of the Commission is not just to provide legislative suggestions, but also ideas to reform the culture of American business. Larson said, "I would involve top executives in the process, so that they can take the lessons learned back to their companies and change the way business in this country is done." The legislation has been referred to the Ways and Means Committee of which Congressman Larson is a member and the Financial Services Committee. ###
01.28.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: January 28, 2009 Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON: RECOVERY PACKAGE IS A FIRST STEP IN A LONG CLIMB TO ECONOMIC STABILITY Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives will vote on America's Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "Last week President Obama stood on our nation's front lawn in front of 2 million Americans and delivered a message that was clear and realistic but hopeful. "We face a rendezvous with reality. The Bush Administration left us with the worst financial crisis this country has seen since the Great Depression. Nearly every component of our economy has deteriorated. Our budget deficits, trade deficits and debt have reached record level. Unemployment has reached the highest level in fifteen years- nearly 4 million manufacturing jobs have been lost. On Monday of this week alone companies cut 71,000 jobs. Inflation is on the rise and household savings are down. States are facing enormous budget shortfalls and are being forced to cut services - my home state of Connecticut is facing a $1 billion deficit this year. "Most Americans don't need to see these statistics to know how serious this problem is. They feel it in their homes and communities as their neighbors lose their jobs, health care and homes. Our economy is in a deep, cavernous hole. Our climb out will be steep and steady and it will take the hard work, innovation and sacrifice of the American people. "The recovery package we will vote on today will not solve all of our problems, but it is a first and necessary step. It will provide short term help to those who have been hurt most by the economic downturn and long term solutions to put our economy back on solid footing. "This package brings recovery, investment and hope." ###
01.27.2009	Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} Normal 0 false false false EN-US X-NONE X-NONE MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-priority:99; mso-style-qformat:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:11.0pt; font-family:"Calibri","sans-serif"; mso-ascii-font-family:Calibri; mso-ascii-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-fareast-font-family:Calibri; mso-fareast-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-hansi-font-family:Calibri; mso-hansi-theme-font:minor-latin; mso-bidi-font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-bidi-theme-font:minor-bidi;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: January 27, 2009 Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 LARSON CONDEMNS CULTURE OF GREED ON WALL STREET Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, made the following statement. "I am outraged by the actions of John Thain and other Wall Street executives. They have made a mockery of the taxpayer and shareholder. While America loses its jobs and houses and health care, they shower millions on their executives, giving new meaning to the term robber baron. Wasting taxpayer money on personal luxuries and undeserved bonuses at a time of such serious crisis in the financial sector is morally reprehensible. These actions are further evidence of the culture of unrepentant greed on Wall Street. "To save the entire economy from being brought down by Wall Street's bad actors, I and other Members of Congress, both Democrats and Republicans, supported the Bush Administration's request to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). And, I still believe that the consequences of not passing TARP would have been even more catastrophic. "But now, we must explore all option to resolve the credit crisis because the Bush Administration, Wall Street and big banks failed to meet the expectations we set for them. The creation of a so called "bad bank", direct government lending to consumers and businesses, lending through the Small Business Association and other alternatives must now be on the table." "The legislation that the House passed last week to hold executives accountable for how they use TARP funds and set executive pay caps was a good first step towards accountability. But, we need to do more." "Those who brought down our financial system need to be held accountable. I strongly support the prosecution of anyone who uses tax dollars to betray the public trust. We must revamp and restructure our regulatory agencies - the SEC, CFTC and FINRA. We must examine the role of rating agencies in the collapse of our financial markets. And, I will demand that the Treasury Department and other agencies recover all improperly used funds. "It is imperative that we don't make the same mistakes again. We owe it to future generations to do a thorough and exhaustive review of what brought about this crisis." ### About John Thain and Merrill Lynch: The Wall Street Journal and other media outlets have reported that Mr. Thain lobbied for a multi-million dollar bonus for himself and later pushed through more than a billion dollars in bonuses for Merrill employees despite the company's sale, catastrophic losses and need for extensive TARP (Troubled Asset Relief Program) funds from the federal government.
01.22.2009	LARSON ANNOUNCES FEDERAL GRANT TO HARTFORD FIRE DEPARTMENT Hartford, CT -U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that the Hartford Fire Department will receive a federal grant award of $240,800 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and The U.S. Department of Homeland Security's Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. With this funding, Hartford will be able to purchase a new fire engine for the southeast section of the city. The current truck responds to emergencies in an area larger than any other truck in Hartford as well as providing support to surrounding municipalities. Larson wrote a letter to the Department of Homeland Security in support of the city's grant application. "I'm pleased to join Mayor Eddie Perez and Fire Chief Charles Teale in announcing this award to the city. With this funding, the City of Hartford will be able to better ensure the safety and security of our citizens. We will replace one of the city's oldest fire engines with a newer, more efficient model," said Larson. "I will continue to support the Assistance to Firefighters grant program, as it enhances the security of the residents and first responders of Hartford and the entire First Congressional District." In 2007, Larson announced a similar fire grant to the Hartford Fire Department for $601,000 for the purchase of a new fire tower ladder. Hartford Mayor Eddie A. Perez said, "I want to thank Congressman Larson for his leadership and never-ending support for our Fire Department and all of our Public Safety officials. The safety and security of our residents and visitors is a top priority and it is essential that Hartford has the tools needed to keep them safe and keep our firefighters safe as well. Hartford also serves surrounding communities in need so this is more than just a Hartford firetruck it is a safety apparatus for the entire region. It gives added meaning to Homeland Security." Hartford Fire Department Chief Charles A. Teale, Sr. said, "The Hartford Fire Department is pleased to announce that it has received verification of an Assistance to Firefighters Grant through FEMA and the Department of Homeland Security. The total amount of the grant will be utilized to pay 80% of the cost of an Engine Apparatus, which is currently needed in the Southeast section of the city. I would like to thank Congressman Larson for his efforts related to the acquisition of this award. Especially since September 11, 2001, he has shown a sincere appreciation and concern for the residents of the City of Hartford through its Fire Department. The resources that will be acquired would not be possible without his influence." ###
01.16.2009	LARSON RECOGNIZES MARTIN LUTHER KING DAY Washington, DC - In honor of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: "Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. recognized that in striving toward equality, the work begins in our neighborhoods and streets. We pause on January 19, 2009, Martin Luther King Day, to remember Dr. King's legacy and promote his message of service. President-elect Barack Obama truly understands that message. When he calls for progress and change he asks the American people to participate in that change. He understands that change does not just come from the halls of Washington, but also from communities all across this country. Martin Luther King Day should inspire us all to participate in serving our communities to make this country a better place." ###
01.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 9, 2009 LARSON STATEMENT ON ISRAEL RESOLUTION WASHINGTON, DC – Today, members of the United State House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly in favor of a resolution that reaffirms our support for Israel and the right of the Israeli people to protect themselves. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: “Today, the House of Representatives stood in solidarity with the people of Israel and reaffirmed their right to protect themselves from Hamas attacks. “When Israel pulled out of the Gaza Strip in 2005, they did it with the hopes of creating peace and calm. Unfortunately, since then Hamas has fired more than 6,000 rockets onto Israeli soil, killing and injuring Israeli citizens. During this time, Israel has shown remarkable restraint in not retaliating. But, in December 2008 Hamas brazenly refused to continue a ceasefire. Instead they chose to ratchet up attacks. Israel was forced to respond. “No other country in the world would have shown that kind of restraint, and none should be asked to. “At the same time, we recognize the dire humanitarian crisis currently taking place in Gaza. While Israel has provided humanitarian assistance throughout this conflict, the situation will not be fully addressed until a stable and lasting peace can be achieved between the Israelis and Palestinians. “For that reason, I support a ceasefire that ends rocket attacks by Hamas, prevents additional arms and explosives from entering Gaza, and jumpstarts a diplomatic initiative in the region.” ###
01.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 9, 2009 LARSON STATEMENT ON LILLY LEDBETTER AND PAYCHECK FAIRNESS ACTS Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly in favor of closing the gender-based pay gap by passing the Paycheck Fairness and Lilly Ledbetter Acts. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: “First of all, I want to commend my colleague Congressman Rosa DeLauro for her steadfast work on this issue. She first introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act over a decade ago and has worked against the odds since then to get it passed. Today is a landmark day for her and for women across this country. “To American families in the midst of an economic crisis, every dollar of income is important. At a time when too many Americans are seeing their jobs cut and wages slashed, gender should not be another barrier to making ends meet. So, today the House of Representatives voted to close the gender-based pay gap and give women the opportunity to recoup any lost back pay. Women should not earn $.77 for every dollar a man earns. They should not be short-changed hundreds of thousands of dollars over the course of a lifetime of hard work. This should not occur in America where a woman can be a candidate for president, CEO of a major corporation or Speaker of the House of Representatives. “Closing the gender pay gap is the first of many things this Congress will do for working Americans. As we rebuild and reinvest in our economy, our focus will be on policies that help average Americans first and foremost like tax rebates, job creation and health care reform.” ###
01.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 9, 2009 LARSON RESPONDS TO DISMAL UNEMPLOYMENT NUMBERS WASHINGTON, DC -- The unemployment rate hit a 15-year high today at 7.2%, according to a Labor Department report. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said: “Today’s unemployment numbers are the harshest evidence so far of the severity of our economic crisis. But, for many Americans, it reinforces a reality they are already too well aware of. Addressing the crisis of the unemployed is the top priority of our economic recovery plan. We will provide short term help and long term solutions to this problem. First, we will help those most impacted by the economic downturn by extending unemployment insurance and access to health care. We cannot allow our fellow Americans to suffer while their jobs are slashed and wages cut. “Our recovery and reinvestment plan must also be focused on creating jobs. Our goal is to save or create 3 million jobs over the next two years -- a far cry from the 1 million we have lost in just the last two months. We must create jobs that stay in America and rebuild our economy over the long term. We need to build new industries like an American energy base and reinforce those that have made our nation great. We need to make America competitive in the global marketplace by training the world’s best workforce for the jobs of the 21st century. “There is no easy path ahead. We have a lot of work to do and more bad news to endure before it is done. But, I have confidence that we can bring our economy out of this downturn and restore pride and integrity to our workforce.” ###
01.16.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 6, 2009 LARSON NOMINATES PELOSI FOR SPEAKER, LAYS OUT SWEEPING PLANS FOR ECONOMY Includes tax cuts for the middle class and targeted investments Washington, DC – The 111th Congress was opened today with the swearing in of new members and the election of Nancy Pelosi as Speaker of the House. Congressman John B. Larson in his role as Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, nominated her for the post. Following the swearing in, he said: “I am humbled today to have taken the oath of office for my sixth term as the Congressman from Connecticut’s First District and to have placed the honorable Nancy Pelosi’s name in nomination as Speaker of the House of Represenatives. “There is much to do and I am happy to welcome the new freshman class as they join in our efforts. I am particularly excited to have Congressman Jim Himes joining the Connecticut congressional delegation. “We have great challenges before us – first and foremost the struggling economy. American families are feeling squeezed by the tough budget choices they face in order to make ends meet. Too many are losing their homes, jobs and hopes for the future. “I am honored to have been elected by my colleagues to serve as Chairman of the Democratic Caucus at this pivotal time. I will work with the other members of leadership and my colleagues from around the country to provide short term help and long term solutions for our country’s economic problems. “America’s middle class and small businesses are the bedrock of our communities and the engine of our economy. That bedrock has been badly shaken by the current economic crisis. For years, Democrats in Congress have been fighting for tax relief for the middle class and small businesses. Now, our Recovery and Reinvestment Plan will give us the opportunity to enact tax cuts that put them first. We can provide small businesses with the tax benefits they need to create jobs and families with the tax breaks they need to help make ends meet. “We will invest in meaningful infrastructure projects that create jobs and spur economic growth in the short term while providing real value in the long term. Targeted investment in our schools, transportation system, cities and towns are critical. We will create the world’s most effective and efficient health care system that expands coverage and lowers costs for more Americans. We will build a comprehensive K-12 and higher education system that prepares all of our children for a new technologically advanced economy. “And we must provide this all with the highest level of accountability. We need to restore Americans’ faith in government to spend their money wisely and responsibly. And, we must ensure that we are getting maximum return for every tax dollar we invest into these programs. “This is a tall order. But, I believe with President-elect Obama and the new Democratic Congress we are poised to meet our goals.” ###
01.09.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: PIC Communications OfficeJanuary 9, 2009 202-203-1700 Public Tickets Available for Inaugural Parade5,000 Bleacher Seats Lining Parade Route to Go On Sale Washington, D.C. -- The Presidential Inaugural Committee announced today that 5,000 tickets for the 56th Inaugural Parade will go on sale to the public at 1:00 PM EST today for $25 each. Tickets will allow spectators to have access to the bleachers along the historic parade route from the Capitol to the White House. Tickets will be available for sale at Ticketmaster.com or by phone at 202-397-SEAT (7328), 410-547-SEAT(7328) or 703-573-SEAT(7328). Tickets will be distributed on a first come, first serve basis."We are very pleased to make these tickets available to the public as part of our commitment to holding the most open and accessible Inauguration in history," said Presidential Inaugural Committee Executive Director Emmett S. Beliveau. "The Inaugural Parade is a celebration of America, and we are working to make sure that as many citizens as possible can take part in this historic tradition." Thousands of spectators will line the 1.7 mile parade route as the new President and Vice President are escorted from the Capitol to the White House by over 13,000 parade participants. Over 90 music, cultural and community groups will join representatives from our Armed Forces in the historic parade, which concludes at the presidential reviewing stand, where the President and Vice President will watch the processional with their families.Tickets are limited to four per person for purchase. Tickets are not required to view the parade, but the purchase of tickets will guarantee spectators a seated spot along the parade route. Ticket holders must be in their seats no later than 1:00 PM EST on January 20th. Standing room will be available along Pennsylvania Avenue on a first come, first serve basis. Earlier this month the PIC announced that hundreds of free parade tickets were being made available to Washington, DC students and their families. DC residents can visit www.pic2009.org/page/s/dcstudentessay for more information on how to obtain those tickets. For the latest information on the 2009 Presidential Inauguration, please visit www.pic2009.org or call 202-203-1929. ###
12.17.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 17, 2008 LARSON EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR LAID OFF AETNA EMPLOYEES Hartford, CT -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) responded today to Aetna's announcement of layoffs in their Connecticut offices. "My sympathies and support are with the laid off employees of Aetna today. In these daunting economic times, the task of recovering from a job loss can seem overwhelming. I want to reassure every citizen in Connecticut's First District who has lost their job that I will stand by them. My offices and I are ready to help you secure any federal benefits to which you are entitled. I also encourage you to take advantage of benefits at the state level." Anyone with questions regarding federal unemployment benefits, federal job corps services or other unemployment related issues can call Congressman Larson's district staff at (860)278-8888. ###
11.26.2008	Hartford, CT -- Today, Congressman John B. Larson announced the following policy for the distribution of tickets to the inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States. Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} MEMORANDUM From: John B. Larson, Member of Congress Date: November 26, 2008 Re: Tickets for Presidential Inauguration As you undoubtedly already know, the historic election of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States has generated an equally historic interest in the Presidential Inauguration on January 20th. It is estimated that approximately 4 million individuals will visit our nation's capitol that day to witness President-elect Obama's Inauguration and swearing-in. Inauguration tickets to the grounds of the U. S. Capitol will be available for only a very small fraction of all of those who would like to attend the Inauguration, and each Member of Congress, including myself, has been allocated only 198 tickets for distribution in accordance with each Member's discretion. And, of those 198 tickets, only 21 are for seats and the other tickets will be for individuals who will have to stand. Thus far, my office has received requests for over 5,000 tickets, and unfortunately we will be able to accommodate the wishes of only a few of those from whom we have received requests. I want to try to ensure that those to whom the 198 tickets are distributed by my office comprise a representative cross-section of the First Congressional District. In order to do this, I have established the following process for the distribution of tickets: 1. No more than two tickets will be distributed to any individual, and the tickets may be used only by the requesting individual and his or her spouse, civil union partner, parent or child. 2. Tickets will not be distributed to groups, organizations, corporations or other entities. 3. Media reports indicate that hotel and similar accommodations in the DC area have been fully committed for several weeks now, and are no longer available. Thus, to help ensure that the tickets that we distribute are actually used, tickets will be distributed only to those who have been able to make arrangements for accommodations at hotels or with family or friends. 4. I have identified a number of categories of individuals to whom the tickets will be distributed. These categories include my family and long-time friends; members of my Congressional office staffs; elected and appointed officials; political leaders; community leaders; teachers and other educators; community volunteers; and other categories that I may identify. Each individual who requests tickets will be assigned to one of these categories, and tickets will be allocated to each category based on the number of individuals and ticket requests in each category and to help ensure an appropriate cross-section of those receiving tickets. Within each category, certain tickets will be distributed to individuals identified through a selection process intended to help further ensure an appropriate cross-section of those receiving tickets, and other tickets will be distributed to individuals chosen by lot. 5. Consideration will be given only to requests for tickets that we receive by Friday, December 5th. 6. Not later than December 15, my office will notify those who have been selected to receive tickets, and those who are so notified will be asked to provide my office, prior to December 31, with the name of those who will be using the tickets, and the hotel or residence where arrangements have been made for accommodations. 7. Tickets will be delivered by the Inauguration Committee to congressional offices just prior to the event. In addition, there will be increased security around Capitol Hill because of the large influx of people coming to Washington for the Inauguration which will lengthen the process of traveling in and out of federal buildings. Therefore, people selected to receive tickets must arrange to pick up their tickets between 9am and 5pm on Monday January 19th at my Congressional Office on Capitol Hill. 8. My office will provide information about general inauguration activities for those who have contacted the office and plan on being in Washington during the Inauguration regardless of being selected for a ticket to the Inauguration ceremony. I regret that many of my friends, constituents and others who contribute to the well-being of the First Congressional District will be disappointed because we will not be able to accommodate their requests for tickets. I hope that everyone will understand the need for this process and will feel that the process is a fair one and will result in a representative cross-section of our community. Please check our website, www.house.gov/larson, for further updates, or call Gladys Mercado at (860) 278-8888, if you have any questions.
10.29.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 29, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 IN HEARING, LARSON ADVOCATES FOR NEW INDUSTRIAL POLICY Washington, DC - In a hearing of the House Ways and Means Committee today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, questioned witnesses about the need for a new industrial plan to improve our economy. Larson said after the hearing, "For years now, our economy has been based on bloated paper assets. We rise and fall based on the value of stocks, derivatives and futures. And the result has been a series of bubbles that burst under the weight of their own overvalued components. It is time to rebuild our nation's economy on the basis of real tangible goods and work. It is time to invest in our country's infrastructure to make us competitive in a global market. We need to improve technology in our schools to give our students the tools they need to learn and thrive. And, we must rebuild our broken highways, bridges and railroads." In questioning, Congressman Larson asked David Mongan, President of the American Society of Civil Engineers, if he saw the need for a new industrial policy. Mongan said that we do, and reinforced the idea that our schools and infrastructure are falling behind our competitors'. To be competitive, he said, we must invest in schools and roadways at the same level as our colleagues in competing nations. Randi Weingarten, President of the American Federation of Teachers also spoke of our schools as the place in the clearest need of increased investment in technology and infrastructure. She pointed to a lack of funding for technology like broadband in our schools. Larson said, "We must rebuild our economy from the ground up. That means investing in our nation's core infrastructure and workforce. I look forward to working to ensure that we take the steps necessary to accomplish that." ###
10.14.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 14, 2008 Contact: For Larson – Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 For Dodd – Bryan DeAngelis/202-224-2823 For Lieberman – Erika Masonhall/202-224-4041 DODD, LIEBERMAN, LARSON APPLAUD COLTSVILLE HISTORIC LANDMARK DECISION Washington, DC -- Secretary of the Interior, Dirk Kempthorne, announced today that Hartford’s Coltsville has been officially named a National Historic Landmark. The Secretary’s sign off confirms the unanimous decision made by the National Park Service Advisory Board in July and a similarly unanimous vote by the Landmark Subcommittee late last year. Today’s announcement also conveys some tax and rehabilitation benefits to the site and puts Coltsville one step closer to achieving all of the benefits of National Park Status. “The Colt Factory was a vital component of Connecticut’s industrial success and accordingly, it holds a prominent place in the history of our state and our nation,” said Senator Chris Dodd (CT-D). “I applaud Secretary Kempthorne’s recognition of Coltsville’s historical significance. I will continue to work towards the goal of obtaining National Park Status for the Colt factory and the surrounding area so that it will be preserved for future generations to learn from and enjoy.” A spokeswoman for Senator Joe Lieberman (CT-ID), Erika Masonhall, said “Senator Lieberman welcomes this decision because it recognizes Coltsville for the important role that this site played in making Hartford a leading industrial area. The Colt family’s spirit has helped make this important designation a reality.” Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said, “The Colt Factory and the surrounding area are an important piece of U.S History – one that should be honored and preserved for our local benefit and our national historical record. I am thrilled with Secretary Kempthorne’s decision. I look forward to continuing to work with members of our community to secure the National Park Status that the area deserves.” The Colt Factory and the surrounding historic district is a landmark in Hartford and a site of great national importance. It was the seed of the Industrial Revolution in this country. The manufacturing innovations that were achieved at Colt spawned some of the most successful businesses in the nation including Pratt and Whitney and the Ford Motor Company. Under the guidance of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, Colt Firearms established the United States as a world leader in business and was the first American company to go abroad. ###
10.06.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 6th, 2008 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860- 539-4924 LARSON ANNOUNCES OVER 54,000 RESIDENTS OF CONNECTICUT HAVE NOT FILED TO RECEIVE STIMULUS CHECKS Hartford, CT-Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson announced that more than 54,000 individuals, over 13,000 in the first congressional district alone, have not claimed their economic stimulus payments. Larson was joined by Mayor Art Ward of Bristol and Robert Peruzzi, Senior Stakeholder Relationship Tax Consultant for the Internal Revenue Service at the Bristol City Hall Chambers for the announcement. The deadline to file for an economic stimulus check is October 15th. Many of the qualified individuals who have not filed or received a stimulus checks are senior citizens, military veterans, and individuals with disabilities. “In my district, over 13,000 individuals including around 6,000 in the Greater Hartford area alone have not filed for their economic stimulus checks. Many of those eligible filers are low-wage workers, seniors, veterans, and individuals with disabilities: the citizens who need these rebate checks the most,” said Larson. “It is important, with winter nearing and the high price of home heating oil and gas, that they receive money to assist them in their day-to-day lives, while stimulating our local economy.” The breakdown of potential remaining filers to receive economic stimulus checks in the first congressional district by town is the following: -Hartford, 3,321 filers -Bristol, 1,074 -West Hartford, 995 -East Hartford, 890 -Torrington, 817 -Middleton, 811 -Manchester, 810 -Bloomfield, 483 -Wethersfield, 472 -Newington, 466 -Windsor, 447 -Southington, 399 -Rocky Hill, 384 -Cromwell, 340 -Glastonbury, 321 -South Windsor, 256 -Berlin, 243 -Winsted, 206 -East Windsor, 199 -Windsor Locks, 180 -Portland, 130 -Granby, 101 -South Glastonbury, 40 -East Granby, 39 To receive a stimulus check, most taxpayers only needed to file a 2007 income tax return. For individuals who are recipients of Social Security, Social Security Disability Railroad Retirement, and veterans’ disability benefits, will have to file a 1040A tax form with the IRS by October 15. Larson also announced that former Connecticut State Senator Biagio “Billy” Ciotto, Larson’s District Office Ombudsman and his District Office IRS liaison will visit local senior centers in the first congressional district this week to host informational sessions to remind eligible retirees and veterans of the upcoming deadline and assist them in filing a 1040A tax form. Larson’s Staff will be at the following locations this week: North End Senior Center 80 Coventry St. Hartford, CT Tuesday Oct. 7 10:30am East Hartford South End Senior Center 70 Canterbury Rd. Tuesday, Oct. 7th 11:30am Windsor Locks Senior Center 41 Oak St. Thursday Oct. 9th 11:00am Windsor Senior Center 599 Mattianuck Ave. Windsor, CT Friday Oct. 10th 12:45pm East Hartford North End Senior Center 30 Remington Rd. Tuesday, Oct 14th 1:30pm To receive a 1040A form or to ask questions concerning eligibility and assistance in filing the form, please contact Congressman Larson’s District Office at 860-278-8888 or the IRS at 1-866-234-2942 or on the web at www.irs.gov. Congressman Larson is a member of the House Committee on Ways and Means.
10.03.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 3, 2008 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860- 539-4924 Larson Lauds Passage of Unemployment Compensation Extension Act Washington D.C. - Today the House of Representatives passed HR 6867, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008 by suspension of the rules. This bill extends unemployment insurance benefits for another 7 weeks in every state and would provide an additional 13 weeks in high unemployment states, defined as having a seasonally-adjusted, three month average total unemployment rate of 6 percent. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of Democratic Caucus, released the following statement after the passage of the H.R. 6867 the “Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2008: "The U.S. economy has lost jobs every single month of 2008, a total of 760,000 jobs since the beginning of the year. Consequently, over the past 12 months, the number of unemployed Americans has increased by 2.2 billion. Unemployment insurance provides an important safety net for American families who find themselves unemployed and seeking jobs in this troubled economy. Without congressional action, nearly 800,000 Americans will have exhausted their unemployment benefits by the end of October. “With 11,000 Connecticut residents facing exhaustion of their unemployment benefits in October, this important bill will provide an extension of up to 13 weeks to help those workers get back on their feet. “At this time of great economic uncertainty, the American people need to know that their representatives are looking out for the interests of Main Street, not Wall Street. This bill is an investment to our greatest resource: the American people.” ###
10.03.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 3, 2008 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860-539-4924 LARSON VOTES FOR ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT Short-term Solution for a Problem in need of Comprehensive Oversight and Reform Washington D.C.-Today, the House of Representatives passed the Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by a vote of 263 to 171. The bill is similar to the bill that was voted on and failed in the House on Monday, but it adds an important expansion of FDIC insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 in order to protect small businesses' ability to make payroll and meet their needs. It also adds billions of dollars in energy and business tax extenders, AMT relief for 23 million Americans, disaster relief and mental health parity reform. However, these provisions from the Senate, unlike those previously passed by the House, are not fully paid for. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus made the following statement: "I am outraged over the earmarks that the Senate has added to this bill. The House of Representatives has consistently supported these tax extenders for wind, solar, fuel cells and clean energy because we know that this is the future for energy independence for America. We also know that these tax credits means jobs in America and right here in Connecticut. But we've supported these provisions in a fiscally responsible way and insisted that they must be fully paid for. We also have supported AMT relief for 23 millions of Americans but we supported it in a fiscally responsible way. However, the Senate has left us with no choice in this matter and the gravity of the economic situation we find ourselves in necessitates a vote in favor of this bill. The bill makes significant changes to the original Treasury proposal. I commend the hard work of the House Democratic Leadership and Connecticut Senator Chris Dodd, who worked to ensure that were protected by requiring the plan to be repaid in full. They also ensured that the bill requires Congressional review after the first $350 billion disbursement and gives taxpayers a share of the profits. It puts limits on excessive compensation for CEOs and executives, including no golden parachutes or CEO compensation that encourages unnecessary risk-taking. It also provides strong independent oversight and transparency, including four separate independent oversight entities to protect the taxpayer's investment. Finally, it allows the government to work with loan providers to change their terms of mortgages; thus reducing the number of foreclosures in coming years and preventing home foreclosures from crippling America’s economy. "This bill is by no means the silver bullet to solve this economic crisis. I remain as frustrated and skeptical as the constituents I serve. However, I believe this is a foreshadowing of the economic fallout that we face. This response is a short-term solution to a long-term problem that congress must now deal with. We must now begin the hard work of revamping our entire regulatory system to ensure that this cannot happen again. We must be ever vigilant; it is the American people's hard earned money, their retirement security and their futures that are on the line. We cannot simply allow these markets to operate in the dark and without oversight. We must root out the fraud and abuse and make Wall Street work for Main Street so that everyone can prosper. " ###
09.29.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 29, 2008 LARSON RESPONDS TO HOUSE VOTE ON THE EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABLIZATION ACT Washington D.C.-Today the House of Representatives voted on the “Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.” The bi-partisan bill attempted to stabilize the economy, preserve homeownership, and protect taxpayers and businesses on Main Street from Wall Street’s greed. The bill also eliminated windfalls for executives and CEOs and increased oversight and accountability. U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, released the following statement: “I remain as skeptical and as frustrated as the citizens I serve. The Bush Administration laid this crisis at our doorstep - a financial mismanagement version of Hurricane Katrina, except this was no natural disaster, it was entirely manmade. The uncertainty and danger of not acting, in my mind, would place citizens in greater peril, by not protecting their pensions, their jobs and their security. “In voting for this measure, I also called for increased oversight and review to further root out fraud, abuse and mismanagement that has obviously taken place. I commit to redouble our efforts on behalf of the American people to curb what has, for the past 8 years, been the most free-wheeling, unregulated economy since the Great Depression. Up to now, the foxes have been guarding the henhouse. This will change and the American people demand that change. "Our work here is not done. Regardless of our immediate next steps, the next Congress will need to focus on a multi-faceted approach to getting our broken economy back on track. A key component will be a complete overhaul of our financial regulatory system so the practices that caused this crisis will not reoccur.”
09.26.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 26, 2008 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860- 539-4924 LARSON SECURES LONG-TERM TAX INCENTIVES TO SPUR FUEL CELL GROWTH Washington D.C.-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, announced today that the House of Representatives passed bi-partisan legislation that will encourage the production and use of renewable energy and provide tax relief for millions of families. With the passage of H.R. 7060, the Renewable Energy and Job Creation Tax Act of 2008, currently expiring tax credits and deductions used to enhance America’s economy, energy independence, and creation of new green jobs will be extended without adding to the national debt. Included in the bill is an eight year extension to the fuel cell investment tax credit. This will provide a major boost to Connecticut’s fuel cell industry. Connecticut serves as a leader in the research and manufacturing of hydrogen fuel cells. The development and commercialization of this green technology is not only important for environmental consciousness and economic stability, but also for our national security interests. Connecticut is home to over 30 companies and over 2,000 jobs associated with fuel cell production. Larson is the founder and co-chair of the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Coalition as well as a member of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. “With the leadership of Chairman Rangel, the House today passed a bipartisan bill that will provide tax relief for families and businesses, while moving our country toward clean energy and energy independence. This legislation will provide an eight-year extension for the renewable energy investment tax credit which will significantly jumpstart investment in renewable energy technologies, specifically Connecticut’s fuel cell industry,” said Larson. “This is a great step of government investment that will motivate the private sector to invest in this green technology.” "I hope that this legislation will serve as an impetus for state and local governments to step up their investment in fuel cells and other alternative energy technologies in Connecticut. The Democratic Congress is committed to ensuring that the United States leads the way in green technology and Connecticut has been a pioneer in this regard. We have a great opportunity to invest in our workforce in Connecticut, but we cannot rest on our laurels; we must continue to work to ensure that these companies, and more importantly, these green jobs, remain in Connecticut." The Bill will reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil by promoting the production and usage of renewable energy by: --Providing a long-term extension and modification of solar energy and fuel cell investment tax credit --Providing incentives for the production of renewable fuels, such as biodiesel --Encouraging the use of energy efficient products, such as plug-in hybrid cars --Providing incentives for energy conservation in commercial and residential structures H.R. 7060 will provide essential tax incentives for businesses to invest in renewable energy technologies by: --Extending the research and development credit --Extending the production tax credit for energy created from biomass, geothermal, hydropower, landfill gas and solid waste
09.25.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 25, 2008 Contact: Paul Mounds 860-278-8888/860- 539-4924 LARSON SECURES FUNDING FOR AMERICAN TROOPS Washington D.C.-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that with the passage of H.R. 2638, Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act of 2009 the House has once again made a strong commitment to fund our troops, put their safety first, rebuild our military and restore troop readiness. Congressman Larson also helped ensure that significant investments were made into Connecticut’s defense manufacturing and hydrogen fuel cell industries and the Connecticut Air National Guard, all of which are important to Connecticut’s economy. These investments help keep our troops safe by providing them with first-rate equipment and technology. H.R. 2638 includes Fiscal Year 2009 Defense Appropriations, Military Construction/Veterans Affairs, and Homeland Security Appropriations bills. “With this funding we will begin to rebuild our military and take care of the soldiers and families who make the U.S. Military's heroic efforts possible. We are committed to providing our troops with the safest and best possible technology and the passage of this bill reflect our strong dedication to this goal,” said Larson. The Defense Appropriations bill provided significant investments to the state’s defense manufacturing industry, including: --$6.9 billion to the Air Force and Navy for procurement of 14 F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Lighting IIs and continuing a program for alternate engine development --$2.9 billion for F-22A Raptors --$236 million for C-17 Globemasters Research and Development --$1.6 million for DoD Hydrogen PEM Fuel Cell Medium/Heavy Duty Vehicle Demonstration Program --$1.6 million for Defense Applications of Carbonate Fuel Cells --$1.6 million for Regenerative Fuel Cell Back-up Power --$3.2 million for Universal Control – FADEC (Full Authority Digital Engine Control) --$1.2 million for UAV-Resupply BURRO --$2 million for Legacy Aerospace Gear Drive Re-Engineering Initiative --$1 million for Smart, Modular Regenerative Off-Grid Hydrogen Fuel Cell --$3.2 million for Video and Water Mist Technologies for Incipient Fire Detection on Ships Larson secured over 5.4 million dollars in the Defense Appropriations bill that will benefit Connecticut’s fuel cell industry. “With this funding, Connecticut’s Fuel Cell industry will continue to develop a technology that will not only protect our troops but will benefit the state of Connecticut, while protecting the environment and decreasing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil”, Larson said. “Connecticut is a world leader in fuel cell technology. It is my hope that with this substantial investment by the federal government, states and municipalities will also be encouraged to invest in these technologies and attract these businesses and jobs to the state of Connecticut. I am proud my colleagues in Congress recognize the importance of this industry to our state and our country." The Fiscal Year 2009 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs bill includes $7.3 million secured by Larson and the Connecticut Delegation to expand the engine shop at the Air National Guard Base at Bradley International Airport, located in Larson’s congressional district. The funding will improve and expand the existing Bradley facility to support the CT National Air Guard’s engine repair missions.
09.24.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE September 24, 2008 LARSON GETS TOUGH ON SPECULATORS - INSPECTOR GENERAL MEASURE PASSED Washington D.C. - U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus released the following statement after the passage of HR 6406, which will provide the Inspector General (IG) of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with more power and autonomy to investigate CFTC’s regulation of the oil market. “It is crucially important, given our present economy, that this Congress do everything that it can to restore oversight and review, and assure the American people that this is the people’s House and we’re watching what’s happening on Wall Street on their behalf. We need to hold accountable those not acting in the best interests of the American people and who care only about their own financial gain at whatever cost. “Over the past eight years the Bush Administration has employed the partisan energy and economic policies of tax breaks to oil companies and the deregulation of the financial markets, which has collectively landed our economy in its present position. Today in the House through Democratic leadership, we passed a bi-partisan regulation that will put our broken system back on the road to recovery by giving the American people the type of oversight on our energy and financial markets they deserve. “We have seen the disastrous effects that can result when we allow the fox to guard the hen house. This legislation is an important step toward ensuring that there is some sunshine on the financial and “dark” commodities markets that will help to protect the future and wellbeing of the American people.” HR 6406 seeks to elevate the current Inspector General of the CFTC from a designated IG to an established IG pursuant to Section 3 of the Inspector General Act of 1978. Rather than being hired by and operating internal to the CFTC, this bill will elevate the IG to his own, independent office, adopting the same IG structure that major US Departments like the Departments of Energy and Defense utilize. Under current law, the Inspector General of the CFTC is appointed and serves under the jurisdiction of the Chairman of the CFTC, the exact same individual and agency the Inspector General is accountable to oversee. This structure indirectly makes the IG dependent on the agency’s Chairman. This legislation will ensure that the Inspector General of the CFTC has the ability to fulfill all of the office’s duties, with more independence and authority to investigate overall agency ineffectiveness and abuse. ###
09.18.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 18, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON GIVES LOCAL CITIZEN CREDIT FOR SPECULATION BILL Bill to lower oil prices and restore the market passes the House. Washington, DC - Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation that will restore integrity to our energy futures markets. It restores the fundamentals of supply and demand in a market that has been struck by rampant speculation. Congressman John B. La rson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "The best ideas in Washington often come from outside of Washington. Today, we see the result of one of those ideas. In January John Mitchell, the former Mayor of South Windsor and an oil dealer, came to me with a problem. The cost of a barrel of petroleum was skyrocketing and local senior citizens were being forced to turn over their entire Social Security checks to fill their home heating oil tanks. He told me that these prices weren't the result of supply and demand, but rather speculators in the energy futures market who were unfairly driving up the cost. So we worked together to solve this problem. And today, we take the first major step towards remedying that situation. "I commend all of my colleagues who have worked hard to bring this legislation to the floor, including Colin Peterson, Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, Bart Stupak, Rosa DeLauro and Chris Van Hollen. "In the past few weeks we have seen the price of a barrel of oil suddenly drop from about $150 to below $100. This drop wasn't because of any increase in supply or decrease in demand. It was because speculators got nervous. They saw Congress beginning to take a harder line against them and they saw innovative Americans finding ways to reduce their consumption of oil. "This is just the beginning. The market manipulation that the Bush Administration has turned a blind eye to for years will be stopped. In so many sectors of our economy - banking, mortgages, energy - Bush and the Republicans took the referee off the field and the American people are suffering because of it. They allowed a few greedy investors to run away with our markets. Well, this legislation puts the referee back on the field. "This is real reform for the real people. It puts Main Street - not Wall Street - first." ###
09.18.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 18, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 MAYOR BLOOMBERG LAUDS LARSON'S CLIMATE CHANGE LEGISLATION Washington, DC - The House Ways and Means is currently holding its first hearing on the issue of climate change legislation. Members are particularly looking at the benefits of any potential carbon tax or cap-and-trade legislation. The panel first heard from New York City Mayor, Michael Bloomberg. Mayor Bloomberg called carbon tax policy, like the one Congressman John Larson has proposed, the best way forward. Larson has proposed legislation that will reduce payroll taxes for citizens in exchange for a tax levied on the carbon emissions spewed by approximately 2,000 polluters. It passes the benefits of the tax onto consumers. Mayor Bloomberg said in written testimony, "Pricing carbon emissions could involve levying a carbon tax, as Congressmen Stark and Larson have proposed. This is the approach nearly every economist prefers - as do I." Mayor Bloomberg also noted vital elements of any effective policy. He said it must be simple and straightforward. It must put the burden of the price on carbon emissions upstream at the point of fossil fuel production. And, Congress must offset the higher costs to consumers with rebates on payroll or other personal taxes. These are all important characteristics of Congressman Larson's legislation. This country is at a crossroads. For the first time the candidates at the top of both major party tickets believe in climate change and believe that something must be done. And the prospect of real legislation in the next Congress is great. Larson spoke on behalf of his carbon tax legislation, citing the "fierce urgency" of acting on this issue now. He said, "Let's look at what would be revenue neutral. Let's look at taxing polluters upstream but passing the benefits downstream to the consumers, reducing payroll taxes and using our creativity and this committee's authority to create a system that will provide the opportunity and innovation and tax relief they need as well." ###
09.11.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE CONTACT: September 11, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON HONORS FAMILIES OF 9/11 VICTIMS Washington, DC -- On September 11th we saw an attempt to strike down all that makes America In those violent attacks, terrorists hoped to divide us and show the weaknesses in our society. Instead they saw the strength as Americans came together to mourn and rebuild. These seven years later, the lesson of that terrible day is the importance of service to our communities and the support we can draw from each other. great – our people, our sense of possibility and our ambition. We saw that in the Keane family of Wethersfield, Connecticut. The Keane’s suffered a terrible loss with the death of their beloved husband, father and grandfather, Richard in the World Trade Center But, they turned their personal sadness towards growth and opportunity for the community that Richard loved. Today they will unveil the 9/11 Memorial Sports Center in Wethersfield, a facility built with the funds and hard work of the Keane Foundation. They brought pieces of the towers that fell to their town as a permanent reminder of what was lost. What a beautiful testament to a wonderful man and what an incredible display of strength for this town. on September 11th. Today and everyday, I stand with the families of the victims in expressing my sympathy and support. They are the bedrock of our communities and the strength they have shown over the past seven years is what makes this country great. ###
09.10.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 10, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 LARSON HAILS PENTAGON TANKER ANNOUNCEMENT Washington, DC – Today, the Pentagon announced that it will delay rebidding of the Air Force’s mid-air refueling tanker program until the next administration. Officials cited timing costs as their main consideration. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said, “I am thrilled with the Pentagon’s announcement that it will delay the rebid on the Air Force mid-air refueling tanker program. This is too serious a matter to rush to a quick decision on. And, too important an issue to our national security to hold another flawed bidding process. The Pentagon has finally made a responsible decision. I am confident that at the end of a fair bidding process the Boeing plane with Pratt & Whitney parts will be deemed superior. I am further certain that the American workforce, so highly skilled in the aerospace industry, will prevail. Because of pressure from Congress, the Pentagon must now take into account the impact this contract will have on the American workforce. This change is a huge boost for the American people, our economy and our national security industry.” ###
07.30.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 30, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 REPUBLICANS STAND IN THE WAY OF LOWER PRICES AT THE PUMP Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives took up legislation that would have ended excessive speculation on our energy markets and lowered the price of gas and oil. Unfortunately, when the Republican leadership realized that the legislation had garnered 290 votes, enough to pass, they began picking away at their members, forcing them to change their votes. The Republican leadership alone doomed the legislation. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: “Consumers who have to face exorbitant prices at the pump this weekend have just a few people to blame for their suffering. The Republican Leadership of the House of Representatives stood directly in the way of lowering those prices today. We watched from our side of the aisle as they confronted member after member forcing them to change their vote on critical legislation that would have reduced the excess speculation on our energy futures market and lowered the price of oil, causing it to fail. “Republicans talk about having an “all of the above” strategy when it comes to energy policy. Funny. Where was that strategy today when they blocked this crucial energy legislation? Where was that strategy when they blocked countless other pieces of important energy legislation over the past few weeks? “Republicans are indifferent to the true suffering of the American people who are bearing the unbelievable weight of outrageous gas prices. Instead they push a drill, drill, drill policy that is nothing but a gift to their friends in big oil. “I am deeply saddened by the turn of events on the floor of the House today. I sincerely encourage my Republican friends to reconsider their decisions and support legislation to rein in market manipulation and outrageous speculation.” ###
07.29.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 29, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 OBAMA MEETS WITH HOUSE DEM CAUCUS; LARSON RESPONSE Washington, DC - Senator Barack Obama met with the House Democratic Caucus today. Following the meeting, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "Senator Barack Obama is a hope monger. His enthusiasm and spirit lifted the House Democratic Caucus to its feet for a standing ovation on more than one occasion. He spoke of unity and resiliency in this critical moment of American history. He held up the promise of a better future. But, most importantly he talked about the hard work that will be required from all of us not just to win the election this November but to turn that victory into substantive policies that help the American people. He laid out goals and plans on issues from health care, transportation and energy to Iran and the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. And, he humbly said that he couldn't take credit for the 200,000 person crowd that gathered to see him in Berlin. They were there to see a symbol of the hope and promise that America could be restored to its past greatness on the world stage. "I look forward to working with a President Obama come January to move ahead with the change this country so badly needs." ###
07.23.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 23, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 CONGRESS PASSES SWEEPING HOUSING LEGISLATION Washington, DC – Today, the House passed sweeping legislation that will allow thousands of American families to stay in their homes and keep our mortgage industry from falling into despair. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: “Millions of families in communities across this country have lost or could lose their homes to foreclosure. This burst housing bubble is leading our economy head first into a recession. The impact of the mortgage crisis is ricocheting through every sector of our society. “The legislation we passed today in the House will allow thousands of those families to stay in their homes by refinancing into lower cost government-insured mortgages. It will restore integrity to the American communities that have been ravaged by foreclosure. And, it will boost the flailing housing market. “I also worked to include a provision in the legislation that will ensure that community development and low income housing projects like Artspace in Connecticut continue to be built and allowed to thrive in our neighborhoods. “I commend the work of Chairman Barney Frank and Senator Chris Dodd on this important legislation.” ###
07.21.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 21, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 COLTSVILLE PASSES NEXT TEST TOWARDS HISTORIC LANDMARK DESIGNATION WASHINGTON, DC - The National Park Service Advisory Board voted today to approve Coltsville's bid to become a National Historical Landmark. Connecticut Senators Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Chris Dodd (D-CT), as well as Congressman John B. Larson (D-CT-01) applaud the Board's decision and its recognition of the important piece of history that the Colt Factory represents. The decision now heads to Secretary of the Interior Dirk Kempthorne's desk for final approval. This is a major step towards attaining National Park status for the area and all of the benefits that come with that designation. Congressman Larson said, "Today's vote is a major victory for Coltsville and a major victory for Hartford. This important site is on its way to getting the recognition, protection and funding that it deserves in order to protect its historic integrity. I am incredibly proud of all of the work that has gone into this bid from all parts of our community. It is testament to the value that we place on our city's treasures and history." "I applaud today's decision to recognize Coltsville as a National Historic Park," said Dodd. "This designation will honor the significant contributions of Sam and Elizabeth Colt to Connecticut and the nation, and will preserve Coltsville's place in our state's history. I hope Secretary Kempthorne will act quickly to sign this measure." "I applaud the National Park's Service decision today to designate the Coltsville Historic District in Hartford as a National Historic Park," said Lieberman. "The Colt Armory's distinctive blue roof has been a beacon for residents and visitors to Hartford for over 150 years. Today's decision not only recognizes the important industrial innovations that Samuel Colt brought to Connecticut, making Hartford a leading industrial area, but also acknowledges Elizabeth Colt's role in keeping Hartford strong following the 1864 fire at the armory. This spirit has helped drive the numerous community, state, and federal groups to make this designation a reality." The Colt Factory and the surrounding area is a landmark in Hartford and a site of great national importance. It was the seed of the Industrial Revolution in this country. The manufacturing innovations that were achieved at Colt spawned some of the most successful businesses in the nation including Pratt and Whitney and the Ford Motor Company. Under the guidance of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, Colt Firearms established the United States as a world leader in business and was the first American company to go abroad. The National Historical Landmark designation does convey some tax and rehabilitation benefits to the site. Today's vote comes after a unanimous vote on the issue by the Advisory Board's Landmark's Subcommittee this past December. ###
07.16.2008	Normal 0 false false false MicrosoftInternetExplorer4 st1\:*{behavior:url(#ieooui) } /* Style Definitions */ table.MsoNormalTable {mso-style-name:"Table Normal"; mso-tstyle-rowband-size:0; mso-tstyle-colband-size:0; mso-style-noshow:yes; mso-style-parent:""; mso-padding-alt:0in 5.4pt 0in 5.4pt; mso-para-margin:0in; mso-para-margin-bottom:.0001pt; mso-pagination:widow-orphan; font-size:10.0pt; font-family:"Times New Roman"; mso-ansi-language:#0400; mso-fareast-language:#0400; mso-bidi-language:#0400;} FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE; jULY 16, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/ 202-225-7295 NEW ENGLAND DELEGATION ASKS PELOSI TO TRIPLE FUNDING FOR HOME HEATING AID Washington, DC -- It may be warm outside, but members of the New England Congressional Delegation are already thinking about the dead of winter. Twenty members sent a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi today, urging her to increase to $9 billion for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in a second economic recovery package. To ease the burden of rising heating costs and expand eligibility for the program, the delegation believes it will be necessary to more than triple current funding. They are also requesting $1 billion for Weatherization Assistance. With the price of home heating oil over $4.00 a barrel, many households in New England will be paying upwards of $4,000 to heat their homes this winter. These high prices will severely stretch the budgets of even middle class families. “Last winter, I heard stories of elderly women turning over their entire social security checks to pay for their home heating oil. With conditions expected to get worse this winter, I can hardly imagine the impact on our communities,” said Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. More than 6 million New England households rely on oil to heat their homes. And, the volatility in the oil market does not bode well for them. Congressman John Olver (MA-01) said, “Between high gas prices and the near doubling in the price of home heating oil, this winter is shaping up to be a perfect storm for residents of Massachusetts. This historical investment in LIHEAP and the Weatherization Assistance Program is warranted, if not a moral obligation, to avoid a societal disaster.” “Keeping your home heated in New Hampshire is not a matter of convenience or comfort but a matter of survival. Congress must take action now to prevent a regional crisis this winter where thousands will be faced with a horrible choice of feeding their children or keeping them warm and healthy,” Congressman Paul Hodes (NH-02) said. President Bush needs to start standing up for the American people," said Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01). "Thousands of families across New England will be unable to heat their homes this winter because of cuts the Bush administration has made to LIHEAP. I urge Speaker Pelosi to provide this emergency funding so families do not have to choose between putting food on the table and staying warm.” ###
07.14.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 14, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295 or 202-593-1377 LARSON RESPONDS TO BUSH DRILLING BAN ANNOUNCEMENT Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, responded today to President Bush’s announcement that he would lift the ban on offshore drilling.“What the President did today is nothing but an empty gesture that will do nothing to lower the price of oil. Now is not a time for gestures, it is a time for action. The American people are hurting under seven years of Bush energy policy. They need results. “The President should do what Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the Democratic House leadership have called on him to do. He should release some oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPRO). Right now, President Bush is sitting on 700 million barrels of taxpayer’s oil. Infusing just a small portion of that into the market will go a long way to lower gas prices now. “Democrats are not opposed to drilling. We think the oil companies should drill on the 68 million acres of land that is available to them. Over 80% of the oil and gas resources on federal lands and the Outer Continental Shelf are currently open for development. Why aren’t they drilling there?” ###
07.10.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 10, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7296 LARSON JOINS SPEAKER IN CALLS FOR BUSH TO FREE OUR OIL Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, joined Speaker Pelosi and other members of leadership today in calling on the President to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Congressman Larson said:“The American people are suffering under the pressure of exorbitant gas prices. President Bush has an opportunity to do something that will relieve that burden now. I join with my colleagues in calling on him to release oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve and finally put the American consumer before his friends in big oil. I urge every American to call or write to the President. Ask him to release our oil, bought with taxpayer money, to lower the prices we are all facing at the pump. By releasing oil from the SPRO, President Bush will be following in the footsteps of other presidents faced with an energy crisis. Withdrawals from SPRO have been made before, when the price of gas was far below what we are dealing with today. The SPRO is well above the levels needed for national security purposes. I see no reason the President would not want to release oil from the SPRO despite blind indifference to the plight of the American consumer. The President’s energy policy, developed in secret with oil executives, has completely failed the American people. We see gas prices rising to all time highs under his leadership. When the Republican energy policy was enacted almost three years ago, they told us it would help America become more energy independent. The reality of their leadership is now obvious. While the long term goals of an energy policy may be lost on this president, I hope the short term objective of lowering gas prices is not. The American people are pleading with him to help them. I hope he answers their call. President Bush must free our oil.” ###
07.09.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 9, 2008Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON TESTIFIES BEFORE AG COMMITTEE ON OIL SPECULATION LEGISLATION Washington, DC – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, testified today before the House Agriculture Committee as part of a hearing reviewing legislative options to curb excessive speculation in the oil futures markets and drive down oil and gas prices. Congressman Larson has introduced legislation that would take the speculators out of the unregulated energy futures markets. His bill would require anyone investing in the “dark” markets be able to take receipt of the produce in which they are investing. The following are excerpts from his prepared testimony. “In properly functioning markets, speculators play an important role in managing financial risk. The danger of combining unregulated speculation with commodities that have a finite supply like oil is that it can become excessive, causing artificial price distortions and volatility in the market. New CFTC data, discussed in a hearing in the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations last month show that in 2000, when the CMFA was enacted, 63 percent of the oil on the WTI futures market was held by physical hedgers, compared to 37 percent held by speculators. By April of this year, that ratio had reversed itself, with speculators now dominating 71 percent of the market compared to physical hedgers at 29 percent.” “President Roosevelt said in his message to Congress on February 9, 1934, “It should be our national policy to restrict, as far as possible, the use of these exchanges for purely speculative operations.” Given that since 2000 speculators have taken control of over 70 percent of the WTI futures market, on the one exchange that is currently regulated, we need to ask ourselves if the market has become exactly what President Roosevelt warned against.” “The approach H.R. 6264 takes to restore the fundamentals of supply and demand to the market and reestablish a reliable price discovery process is to focus on the activities of the physical hedgers, the producers and consumers, the market participants the commodity markets were established to serve.” “By limiting the participation of speculators and focusing on the activities of the physical hedgers this legislation will ensure that prices will most accurately reflect the true supply and demand of the underlying physical commodity.” ###
07.02.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 2, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SEND PRESIDENT LETTER TO URGE HIM TO TACKLE OIL PRICES AT G8 SUMMIT Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, along with Congressman Bart Stupak, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, sent a letter to President George Bush this week urging him to bring up the global problem of rising oil prices and particularly excess speculation at the G8 Summit later this month. Because oil prices and speculation are a global problem, the signers of the letter believe that it can best be solved with cooperation across borders. The letter states, "Without a comprehensive review of activities in the entire petroleum market, it is unlikely that a truly accurate assessment of speculative behavior and its impact on price can be made. This is particularly true in today's global economy, where strategic cooperation and coordination among nations is necessary to ensure stability and transparency in globally traded commodities." Congressman Larson (CT-01) said, "The G8 Summit is the perfect forum to bring up an issue that is a top priority not just for us at home, but in countries across the globe. England's Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, called oil prices ‘a global shock" that requires ‘global solutions.' As Congress works hard to tackle this issue, I believe it is incumbent on this President to do what he can on the international stage as well." Congressman Stupak (MI-01) said, "Whether an individual exchange closes in New York, London or Dubai, energy markets operate globally. While U.S. regulators must do their part to investigate and address the excessive speculation artificially inflating energy prices, this truly is a global problem that requires action from all of the key players in the global economy." Please see below for the full text of letter. June 30 2008 The President The White House Washington DC Dear Mr. President: The upcoming July 2008 G-8 Summit is an important opportunity to tackle the problem of rising oil prices on a global scale. We urge you to engage your counterparts in efforts to reduce global oil speculation and other questionable market activities that distort the supply and demand market equation and artificially distort the price of these commodities. While we understand that global supply and demand issues as well as the weak U.S. dollar play a role in determining price - the fact remains that current supply and demand conditions do not add up to current market price increases. Speculation, in most cases by individuals that will never take a barrel of oil into inventory, is placing a distorted premium on the price of oil. This is evident by the nearly $240 billion growth in oil future investments since 2000. On March 4, 2008, Guy Caruso, Administrator of the Energy Information Administration testified before the Senate that speculation was currently adding as much as 10 percent to the price of oil, a relatively conservative estimate compared to some from the private sector. As far back as March 15, 2005, Exxon Mobile CEO Lee Raymond was quoted in the New York Times saying "We are in the mode where the fundamentals of supply and demand really don't drive the price." Three years later, during questioning in April 2008 before the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, Stephen Simon of Exxon Mobil cited speculation as one of the major causes of the exorbitant oil and gas prices we've seen, while executives from Shell, BP, Chevron, and ConocoPhillips agreed. The U.S. is not alone facing the effects of the recent high spike in oil prices. On May 28, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown wrote in The Guardian that "a global shock on this scale require global solutions" and argued that a global strategy to address the impact of higher oil prices be on the agenda for this year's G-8 Summit. We agree with the need for greater international cooperation in bringing transparency to the global petroleum commodity and derivative markets and urge you to join with Prime Minister Brown and other G-8 leaders to discuss solutions to this critical issue. The recent announcement by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission on May 29 that they have reached agreements with the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority (FSA) and the ICE Futures Europe for expanded information sharing on trading activities in regulated markets is a step in the right direction. However, this effort stops far short of bringing transparency to the currently unregulated markets. It ignores transactions currently excluded or exempted from CFTC oversight under Sections 2(g) and 2(h) of the Commodities Exchange Act. We remain concerned that it is impossible to draw realistic conclusions about market behavior when looking at only a fraction of the market. Without a comprehensive review of activities in the entire petroleum market, it is unlikely that truly accurate assessment of speculative behavior and its impact on price can be made. This is particularly true in today's global economy, where strategic cooperation and coordination among nations is necessary to ensure stability and transparency in globally traded commodities. In the banking sector, the inter-governmental Financial Action Task Force (FATF) created at the 1989 G-7 conference to develop and promote national and international policies to combat money laundering and later terrorist financing has proved a successful model of international financial information exchange and policy development. As you prepare for next month's G-8 summit, we urge you to discuss with your colleagues a similar effort focused on building international transparency in oil commodity transactions and developing policies to thwart speculative positioning or other manipulative behavior that impacts prices and undermines market fundamentals. Sincerely, Rep. John Larson Rep. Bart Stupak Rep. Betty Sutton Rep. Jan Schakowsky Rep. André Carson Rep. Ruben Hinojosa Rep. Bill Pascrell Rep. Louise Slaughter Rep. Tim Bishop Rep. Jim Oberstar Rep. Henry Waxman Rep. Tammy Baldwin Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Joe Donnelly Rep. Dale Kildee Rep. Hank Johnson Rep. Bennie Thompson Rep. Jerry Costello Rep. Russ Carnahan Rep. Mike Doyle Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Baron Hill Rep. Maurice Hinchey Rep. Chaka Fattah Rep. John Yarmuth Rep. Raúl Grijalva Rep. Steve Rothman Rep. Charlie Wilson Rep. Diane Watson Rep. Peter Welch Rep. James Langevin Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. Phil Hare Rep. Sam Farr Rep. Paul Hodes Rep. Neil Abercrombie Rep. Betty McCollum Rep. Dennis Kucinich Rep. Michael Michaud Rep. Xavier Becerra Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Ellen Tauscher Rep. David Wu Rep. Gene Taylor Rep. Jason Altmire Rep. Mike Honda Rep. Hilda Solis Rep. Carolyn McCarthy
07.02.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 30, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-2265 CONGRESSMEN LARSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO CREATE INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL AT TRADING COMMISION Hartford, CT – Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, announced today that he introduced legislation (H.R. 6406) that would elevate the Inspector General of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) to give him or her independence and greater authority to oversee the Commission’s activities. According to a GAO report Congressman Larson requested, the CFTC has not been actively monitoring or investigating cases of abuse in the energy futures market. This has allowed rampant speculation to drive up the cost of oil completely unchecked. Congressman Larson said, “The CFTC has abdicated its responsibilities in monitoring and regulating the energy futures market. An Inspector General who has the necessary independence and resources to make sure the CFTC goes back to work will go a long way towards putting our broken energy markets back on track. For too long, the CFTC has answered to Wall Street and K Street. Now, they must answer to Main Street. ” This simple legislation would broaden the powers of the existing inspector general by taking them out from the traditional hierarchy of the CFTC and giving him or her the independence to do the job properly. Congressman Larson has been actively pursuing ways to rein in the speculation in the energy markets that has driven the cost of a barrel of oil to record heights. Earlier this year he introduced legislation that would take speculators out of the “dark” markets for energy futures. That legislation would require anyone investing in these markets be able to take receipt of the product in which they are investing. He also supported legislation on the floor of the House of Representatives last week that would direct the CFTC to invoke its emergency powers to oversee and regulate the “dark” markets. ###
06.26.2008	For Immediate Release/ Contact: Emily Barocas June 26, 2008 202-225-7295/202-593-1377 CONGRESSMEN LARSON AND LOBIONDO WITH DOZENS OF OTHERS EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR SPECULATION LEGISLATION Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, and Congressman Frank LoBiondo (NJ-2) along with dozens of other members of Congress stood in the shadow of the Capitol today to express bipartisan support for legislation that will reduce speculation in the energy markets and drive down gas prices. The leadership of the House of Representatives has committed to moving such legislation in the month of July. "The concept of supply and demand is broken in our oil market," said Congressman Larson. "Oil prices keep skyrocketing to record levels while demand is flat or down. When everyone from the former head of trading at the Commodities Futures Trading Commission to the Secretary General of OPEC and executives from the big oil companies say that speculation is a major contributing factor to rising gas prices, it is obvious that we need to do something bold." In 2000 there was $9 billion of investment in oil futures. Now, that number is up to $250 billion. This huge increase is fueling the rise in gas prices and making it difficult for average Americans to make ends meet. This type of artificial distortion of the markets threatens the very underpinnings of our market system. "From our families to our businesses, everyone is feeling the financial strain from increasing fuel costs. When we see oil prices spike not because of the demand by consumers, but because of the mere speculation by energy traders, then every American should be outraged and Congress is required to act," said LoBiondo, an original cosponsor of the legislation. The Consumer Oil Price Protection Act, H.R. 6264, would reduce speculation in the markets by requiring that anyone who is investing in energy futures on the "dark" markets be able to take receipt of that product. In other words, it would take speculators out of the unregulated markets and shed some light on their activities. "Many economists have estimated that excessive speculation is adding between $20 and $50 to the price of a barrel of oil. We need to close loopholes and help reestablish oversight of the commodities markets to ensure that gas prices truly reflect the laws of supply and demand," said Congressman Baron Hill (IN-9). Other estimates suggest that speculation contributes up to 70% of the cost of a barrel of oil. And, reducing speculation would have a huge impact on the price at the pump. "Middle class families are suffering at the pump and I am pleased to join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in support of this important legislation," said Congresswoman Shea-Porter (NH-1). "I am hearing from families who literally cannot afford to drive their kids to the local ice cream shop-this is unacceptable. We must work together to get gas prices down." Congress is committed to acting on this issue. There are plans to hold hearings in the relevant committees over the next few weeks and consider legislation during the month of July. Speaker Pelosi sent a letter to President George Bush calling on him to direct the CFTC to use its emergency powers to bring order to the energy markets. And, the House will bring up legislation today directing such action. "Congress must rein in unscrupulous market speculators who artificially drive up the price of oil through fear. If no action is taken, what we are seeing now will pale in comparison to the overwhelming burden homeowners will feel this fall and winter when they purchase home heating fuel. Americans deserve immediate short-term price relief and want long-term solutions to our nation's energy policies. I applaud my Connecticut colleague, Vice-Chairman John Larson, for his leadership on this issue," said Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02). "The Consumer Price Protection Act will help curb the uncontrolled speculation in oil markets that is artificially increasing the price of oil. Market manipulation is unconscionable and is one of the problems we can combat swiftly," said Congressman Chris Smith (NJ- 4). "Excessive speculation is driving up energy costs for American families and crippling our economy," said Congressman Bart Stupak (MI - 1), chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and a leader on this issue. "I have been looking at energy speculation for three years and just Monday held a seven-and-a-half hour hearing on the topic. Congress has the facts. Now we must take up comprehensive legislation to close off the loopholes that are allowing speculators to manipulate the markets." The dozens of members gathered today stand in support of legislation that puts the American consumer first and lowers gas prices for us all. ###
06.18.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE : Wednesday 18 June 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas (Larson) 202-225-2265 Members of the CT House Delegation Welcome GAO Decision Upholding Boeing Protest of Air Force Tanker Contract Award Washington, D.C. - Members of the Connecticut House Delegation issued the following comments, following the Government Accountability Office's decision to sustain the Boeing protest of the Air Force acquisition process for the $35 billion award to replace the aging KC-135 air refueling tankers. In the GAO's review of the record, they concluded "that the Air Force made a number of significant errors that could have affected the outcome of what was a close competition between Boeing and Northrop Grumman. We therefore sustained Boeing's protest." The decision to sustain the protest was based on seven points, including that the Air Force failed to assess the relative merits of the proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria identified in the solicitation; the Air Force conducted misleading and unequal discussions with Boeing; and the Air Force's evaluation of military construction costs in calculating the offerors' most probable life cycle costs for their proposed aircraft was unreasonable. Please click here to view the GAO report sustaining Boeing's protest. "Given the Air Force's mistakes in the acquisition process, it is clear that GAO could only make one decision: this contract needs to be revisited. Had the Air Force actually evaluated the proposals with the criteria it outlined, the contract award would have gone to the Boeing and Pratt and Whitney team. This was the best-value solution, which has unrivaled capability and operational flexibility," said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). "As our economy continues to shed jobs - 325,000 since the beginning of the year - it should be noted that the Boeing proposal would support at least twice as many jobs in the U.S. We should not be sending more jobs overseas or outsourcing our defense technological base. We should be creating jobs at home, supporting local innovation, and investing in our economy." "The GAO's announcement reaffirms our position that the Air Force made a deeply flawed decision in its choice of the next generation of mid-air refueling tankers. This is a great victory for the American workforce and the people of Pratt and Whitney. The Air Force failed to take into account important lifecycle costs and the overall cost to American industry of outsourcing this vital contract. What Boeing offered the Air Force was the best plane with the best value to the military and the country. The Air Force's initial decision was based on faulty information and bad analysis. At a time when unemployment numbers are skyrocketing and Americans are struggling to make ends meet, they paid no attention to the impact their decision would have on our economy. I hope and trust that as we move forward with a fairer more open process in reassessing this bid,that the Air Force will bring in all of these important factors in its decision-making process. The eyes of the entire country are on them," said Congressman John Larson (CT-1). "It's a do-over for the Air Force. After months of debate over why the Air Force determined that it would be best to outsource our defense work to foreign nations while our skilled workforce in Connecticut sits idly by, we finally will have a chance to compete fairly. This decision is what's best for the economy and security of not only Connecticut, but the nation," said Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5). "This was exactly the right call," said Rep. Courtney. "The GAO confirmed what Connecticut knew all along: that significant errors made by the Air Force throughout the process led them to choose the wrong plane. The Air Force needs to adopt all of the GAO's recommendations as we move forward in a new and fair selection process. We cannot allow a deeply flawed process to jeopardize our national security and economy." ###
06.18.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 18, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295 or 202-593-1377 CONGRESSMAN LARSON CONDEMNS PRESIDENT’S RHETORIC ON GAS PRICES Washington, DC – Today, Democrats in Congress reacted strongly to the President’s call to increase offshore drilling for oil. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) ¸Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: “President Bush’s attempt to politicize the oil crisis that is wreaking havoc on average American’s ability to make ends meet is uncalled for and poorly informed. Time and again we have shown that more drilling for oil will do nothing to lower the prices at the pump for the millions of people who are suffering today. In fact, drilling in the Alaskan National Wildlife Refuge will not produce a drop of oil for ten years. And even after waiting ten years for, the drilling won’t lower gas prices by more than a few pennies per gallon. “The President’s speech was nothing but a gift to his friends at the big oil companies. And, it is these oil companies who already have rights to drill for 70% of the oil on the Outer Continental Shelf. They have leases to drill on 40 million acres of offshore land, yet they have put only 7 million acres into production. Why should we open more lands to oil exploration, when oil companies are not utilizing the lands they have? This is part of a trend of stockpiling leases to control oil prices and this New Direction Congress can not support it. “The President should keep his focus on ways we can actually lower prices and help American families today. For seven years he has allowed speculators to run rampant in the energy markets. It is time for that to end.” ###
06.13.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 13, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-2795/202-593-1377 CONGRESSMAN LARSON INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO FIX BROKEN ENERGY MARKETS, LOWER GAS PRICES Washington, DC -- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, introduced legislation that would take speculators out of the unregulated energy futures markets. It is these speculators who are unfairly driving up the cost of gas and home heating oil and making it impossible for average Americans to make ends meet. Day after day we see gas prices hit new record highs. This is unsustainable and unfair. This bill would require that anyone who invests in oil futures on the "dark" markets be able to actually take inventory of the product in which they are investing. That means no speculators who are out to make a profit at the expense of the American people and our economy. Congressman Larson said, "I know that this is a bold step. But, given the gravity of the current situation, bold action is exactly what's needed." Experts around the country agree that speculation, not just supply and demand, is driving up the cost of oil. Gay Caruso, Administrator of the Energy Information Administration, said in testimony before the Senate that speculation is adding as much as 10 percent to the price of oil. The CEO of Exxon Mobil, Lee Raymond, even admitted back in 2005 that, "we are in the mode where the fundamentals of supply and demand don't really drive the price." And, during questioning this year before the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, executives from the big oil companies cited speculation as one of the major factors driving up the cost of oil and gas. "I recognize the role that speculators play in a functioning market. But with the volume of trades and amount of money in today's market, that role has been grossly distorted," said Congressman Larson. In fact, the amount of money invested in energy futures has increased more than 1000% since 2000. Then, there were $9 billion in the energy futures market. Today, that number is up to $250 billion. And, much of this trading is happening on markets where there is absolutely no regulation or oversight. "Clearly the market is broken," said Congressman Larson. "It is time to put the American people first and restore the concept of supply and demand to our oil markets." ###
06.11.2008	For Immediate Release: June 11, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 REPUBLICANS DENY ASSISTANCE TO MILLIONS OF UNEMPLOYED AMERICANS Washington, DC - Republicans in the House of Representatives stood in the way of providing an unemployment insurance extension to millions of out of work Americans. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "Today, in the House of Representatives, the difference between the Democratic agenda and Republican roadblocks couldn't have been clearer. While we were trying to provide unemployment insurance extensions for the millions of Americans who lost their jobs as this economy has turned sour, Republicans stood in the way. Republicans are frozen in the ice of their own indifference to the needs of the American people. After seven years of the Bush policies that drove our economy into ruins and squandered a budget surplus, Republicans are turning their backs on the American people. When their friends in the corporate world face tough times, they are more than willing to bail them out. But they won't do the same for American families. "There are more long-term unemployed American workers right now than there were the last time we passed an extension of unemployment benefits. Today's unemployment insurance extension would have provided 13 additional weeks of much needed assistance to 3.8 million Americans, including more than 57,000 in my home state of Connecticut. And, it would have done so at no additional cost to the American taxpayers. The money would have come out of the surplus in the unemployment reserves. "Make no mistake; we will get this legislation to the President's desk, and I hope he signs it. Republicans can either stand with us to relieve the suffering of the 3.8 million unemployed this economy has created, or they can stand in the way." ###
05.29.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 29, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON CONTINUES TO ADVOCATE FOR REGULATING SPECULATORS, COMMENDS CFTC FOR INCREASES IN OVERSIGHT, BUT NEEDS TO GO FARTHER Washington, DC -- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission announced today that it will increase its oversight over the foreign and domestic energy futures markets. This comes after Democrats in Congress have for months been calling for increased monitoring and regulation of these markets that are driving up oil and gas prices. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, has been at the forefront of this fight, not only encouraging the CFTC to increase oversight, but proposing bold legislation that would take speculators out of the energy futures markets. Congressman Larson said, “I’m glad the CFTC is finally stepping up to its responsibilities and taking action to regulate and monitor the energy markets. In Congress, I, along with my Democratic colleagues, have been calling for the CFTC to prevent and prosecute abuses in the markets. I’ve seen the impact that manipulation in the futures markets is having on the prices we pay at the pump. The CFTC must do its part to protect the American consumer. I am glad it is beginning to heed this call. “The CFTC’s announcement today is part of the solution, but not the whole solution. While this announcement today means the CFTC will finally start to share trading information with other agencies regulating world markets, it is still not clear that CFTC is willing to look into the massive amounts of over-the-counter trades or other transactions that are currently exempted or excluded from their oversight. I will continue to move forward with my legislation that will take the speculators out of the markets that the CFTC does not have the authority to regulate. It is those markets where trades happen without any oversight, where regulators have no power and where speculators are going wild driving up costs. My legislation would require anyone who invests in energy futures in over-the-counter trades be able to take inventory of the product. “I heard executives from the big oil companies admit before a hearing of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global warming that speculation in the markets is a major factor in driving up energy prices. Investment in these markets has gone from $9 billion in 2000 to $250 billion today. Congress understands the impact this is having on our economy as a whole. Even the oil executives get it. I am glad the CFTC has finally come around to understand this as well.” For more information on Congressman Larson’s legislation please see the New York Times article here: https://www.nytimes.com/2008/05/25/business/25maker.html?_r=1&ref=business&oref=slogin ###
05.22.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 21, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON RETURNS FROM TRIP TO IRAQ MORE CONVINCED OF NEED FOR TIMETABLE Washington, DC - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, joined Speaker Nancy Pelosi on a trip to Iraq this past weekend. The delegation met with Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. Larson confronted al-Maliki with the reality of America's waning patience with the War in Iraq and the government's performance there. Congressman Larson said, "Having spoken with Prime Minister Maliki, I am even more convinced of the need to establish a timeline for U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. The American people have supported the Iraqi government with life, limb and treasure. Now, it is time for Iraqis to stand up and take responsibility for their own future. It is time for Iraq's neighbors and the Arab League to help create a stable and secure Iraq. It's incumbent for Iraq's neighbors and the international community to step up. It seems obvious to me they are content to see this administration go it alone. "Americans at home are wondering why our troops are paying the ultimate sacrifice in Iraq, caught in the midst of a sectarian war. The United States is going deeper and deeper into debt to rebuild Iraq while the Iraqi government is running a surplus. "Iraq's government must demonstrate to the United States and the world that it is capable of building a strong coalition to lead their country to stability and security. We have yet to see that sort of leadership from them. "This continues to be one of the worst foreign policy decisions in our country's history, the scope of which is eclipsing the Vietnam War."
05.20.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 20, 2008 CONTACT: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295/202-593-1377 CONGRESSMAN LARSON STATEMENT ON THE HEALTH OF SENATOR KENNEDY Washington, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, released the following statement regarding news that Senator Edward Kennedy has been diagnosed with a malignant brain tumor. "Senator Ted Kennedy is a fighter and I have no doubt he will face this next challenge as he has every other - with strength and purpose and will. Senator Kennedy is an American icon. His leadership and ideals have done so much for this country. He's the heart of the New England Congressional delegation and I feel honored to work with him as a force for good in our area. My prayers are with the Senator today and with his wife Vicki, his children, including my dear colleague Patrick, and the entire Kennedy family."
05.16.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 16, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON ANNOUNCES $2 MILLION TO BOOST DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT HARTFORD, CT - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced today that the City of Hartford will get a huge boost in the downtown development of the Front Street Project. The Department of Housing and Urban Development will award a $2 million Brownfields Economic Development Initiative (BEDI) Grant and a $5 million Section 108 Loan for construction and clean up at the Adriaen's Landing Project site. This site will be a part of an exciting new retail and entertainment district that will revolutionize Hartford's downtown area. The development zone includes the Connecticut Convention Center and the Connecticut Science Center, currently under construction. These hubs will serve as a funnel to the new stores and restaurants the BEDI grant and loan will allow us to build. Congressman Larson said, "I am thrilled with HUD's decision to help finance this important project and ensure a bright future for the City of Hartford. This development will bring stores, restaurants and most importantly people to our great city. I would like to thank Connecticut's Senators Dodd and Lieberman for their help in securing this money. And, I look forward to dining at our new restaurants as soon as they open." Congressman Larson wrote a letter and called the Department of Housing and Urban Development in support of the City of Hartford's grant application. Larson said he is pleased the City of Hartford and Front Street developer The HB Nitkin Group, can now move forward in the development and construction of the site. "The City of Hartford has made great strides in the last few years to redevelop and reinvigorate our downtown. This money will give us a push to take the area to the next level," said Congressman Larson. The Brownfields Economic Development Initiative (BEDI) is a competitive grant program that HUD administers to stimulate and promote economic and community development. BEDI is designed to assist cities with the redevelopment of abandoned, idled and underused industrial and commercial facilities burden by environmental contamination. ###
05.14.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 14, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON: FARM BILL TAKES STEPS TO LOWER GAS PRICES AND REGULATE OIL MARKET Washington, DC - Today, Congress passed a farm bill that puts us on the path towards reform and a New Direction. This landmark legislation includes provisions that directly impact the record high prices we have seen at the gas pump by allowing our federal regulators to have more oversight and control over oil futures trades. Gas prices have more than doubled since President Bush took office. The Democratic Congress is putting an end to energy policies based on the wishes of the energy industry and speculators and returning the markets to the American consumer. Here's a sample of what this legislation does: It expands the authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission over trades on markets that have been exempt from the sort of oversight that is necessary to preserve the concept of supply and demand. It increases criminal and civil penalties for market manipulation. Monetary penalties will go up tenfold for those found guilty of fraudulent practices. And, it makes it a felony to fail to comply with a fraud and manipulation investigation. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, said, "This legislation makes great progress in the march to put American consumers first. It sends a signal to speculators that their days manipulating the market and driving up the price of oil are numbered. There is more to do to take the speculation out of our energy markets. But this is a good first step." ###
05.14.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 14, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas/202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON LAUNCHES NEW WEBSITE WASHINGTON, DC -- Congressman John B. Larson announced today the launch of his new website, www.larson.house.gov. The new site will go live on Thursday morning. It will include new interactive features such as: · A community photos section hosted by Flckr.com that will allow residents of Connecticut's first district to share their favorite photos of the area; · A map that displays locations throughout the district where the Congressman has secured grants and funds for development; · Video clips of the Congressman's statements on the floor of the House; · A slideshow of the Congressman's recent events and appearances; · User polls to help the Congressman know what his constituents are thinking on important issues; · RSS feeds and email newsletter subscription options. "This new website will give my friends and neighbors back home new access to information and insight into what I am doing in Washington," said Congressman Larson. "It will also be an online community for us all to share - share photos of the places we love, share comments about the issues of our time, and share an appreciation of our area." As always, the Congressman's website will be updated with information about the issues and activities that are most important to him. Please check back regularly over the first few weeks, as things will be changing quickly. ###
04.30.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 30, 2008 The Blame for High Oil Prices Lies at the President's Feet WASHINGTON, DC - This week, President Bush tried to place the blame for high oil prices right on Congress' doorstep. Well, that blame should instead be sitting down the street a bit at the entrance to1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. It is the President's own policies that have gotten us into this mess and his refusal to act that keeps making it worse. Democrats in Congress have a plan to tackle high oil and gas prices: Democrats have called on President Bush to end contributions to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve that take 70,000 gallons of oil off the market each day. - But, President Bush says he has done the cost- benefit analysis and he doesn't need to act right now. - The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is 97% full - more than enough to fill our national security needs. - If the President stopped contributing to the SPRO, the price of gas would go down 5 to 24 cents per gallon. Democrats tried to end subsidies to big oil companies who are earning record profits. - 174 Republicans in the House of Representatives opposed the move, including all of the Republican Leadership. - President Bush threatened to veto the bill if it landed on his desk. (2/26/08) Democrats tried to crack down on gas price gouging and hold OPEC accountable for oil price fixing. - President Bush threatened to veto both pieces of legislation. (5/23/07 and 5/22/07) - Republican leadership adamantly opposed the legislation. Democrats passed legislation that encourages energy independence and institutes new vehicle mileage standards. - Despite Republican opposition, this legislation passed both chambers of Congress and was signed into law on December 19, 2007 President Bush made just two suggestions to lower the price of oil. The President thinks drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Reserve will lower gas prices. But experts say that drilling in ANWR will have no immediate effect and will lower prices by a mere one cent per gallon in ten years. The President thinks that we should increase the number of refineries around the country to increase supply. Good idea - luckily we are already doing just that. We have more than half a million barrels per day of new oil refining capacity currently under construction. Work on another 100,000 barrels per day of capacity will probably begin in the next year.
04.01.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 5, 2008 Contact: Contact For Larson - Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 For DeLauro - Adriana Surfas/202-225-3661 For Shays - Dave Natonski/202-225-5541 For Courtney - Brian Farber/202-225-2076 For Murphy - Kristen Bossi/202-225-4476 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION DEMANDS ANSWERS ON TANKER DECISION FROM AIR FORCE Washington , DC -- Members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation are requesting a briefing from the Air Force on their decision to award the Tanker KC-X contract to Northup Grumman and foreign-based EADS Corp over American-based Boeing. The Air Force should answer questions about how they made their decision and why, given the current economic and security situations our country faces. The delegation is particularly concerned because the decision impacts thousands of much needed Connecticut jobs. The Boeing planes included engines produced by Pratt and Whitney and electrical systems from Hamilton Sundstrand. Defense projects that have been outsourced to foreign countries have experienced significant delays and excessive cost overruns. The current Marine One helicopter contract awarded to Lockheed Martin and its British-Italian Partner, AgustaWestland-Finmeccanica, is billions of dollars over budget. Given the size and importance of the tanker project, the Air Force has a responsibility to explain the basis of their decision to Members of Congress and more importantly, to the American people. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) said, "The fact that the Air Force did not even stop to consider the impact their decision would have on American jobs and the economy is very telling. Faced with a similar dilemma with their A400M project, European countries tossed out an American contractor in favor of local manufacturing. Yet, this is not the first time the Department of Defense has decided to ship jobs and contracts overseas rather than keep them in this country. Most recently the Marine One contract went to a company in Europe . The project is now over budget and not on time. We can't afford to have that happen with a project of the magnitude of the Tanker KC-X. For the security of our country and our future, the Air Force should consider our nation's core manufacturing base. By keeping these jobs in America we are preparing our workforce of the future to handle any challenges we may face. Connecticut used to be called the Arsenal of our Democracy because of the state's ability to produce what was necessary to build the mightiest military. The Air Force should not be complicit in disassembling that achievement. We can't rely on global mercenaries to propel the mightiest Air Force in the world." "Awarding this Air Force Tanker contract to European Airbus continues a pattern of outsourcing our defense capability to foreign companies. This is harmful not only to our economy and our workforce, but also to our long-term national security interests," said Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-3). Given the current economic downturn, this decision is made even worse. The Air Force must explain this decision and I look forward to meeting with them." "Further, the Air Force turned a blind-eye to the opportunity to secure the best product at the best value for the taxpayer while strengthening the economy and creating American jobs. Christopher Shays (CT-04) said, "It seems to me, allowing the overseas manufacture of this critical refueling tanker program may present a security risk and harms the ability of U.S. manufacturers to compete with the European market." Chris Murphy (CT-05) said, "I have serious questions about how an important defense project contract critical to our national security could go to a conglomerate based largely on foreign soil while our skilled workers and defense capabilities could be sitting idle. I am looking forward to meeting with the Air Force as soon as possible to find out how this decision was made, and if there is reason to reconsider it." "This is a surprisingly short-sighted decision by the Air Force. The KC-767 is a low risk and proven platform for our aerial refueling needs. This shocking decision demands further Congressional scrutiny and as a member of the House Armed Services Committee I will demand answers from the Air Force. This announcement continues an alarming trend of awarding major defense contracts to heavily subsidized foreign competitors over our own domestic defense industry. As we learn more about how the Air Force made its choice, I look forward to working closely with the Connecticut Delegation to review and possibly challenge this unfortunate decision," said Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02)
04.01.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 1, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 Oil Executives Reaffirm Larson Position: Speculation is Driving Up Energy Prices Washington, DC -- Today, executives from the Exxon Mobil Corp., Shell Oil Company, BP America, Chevron and ConocoPhillips agreed with Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) that speculation in the futures markets is a major factor contributing to the rising prices of oil and gasoline. Congressman Larson announced a legislative initiative yesterday to take speculation out of the oil markets. His proposal will drastically change the markets by requiring that investors in the market be able to take delivery of the petroleum product in which they are investing. This will eliminate the speculators from the market who are driving up the price of oil. Congressman Larson said: "The concept of supply and demand in the oil and gas market is broken. Prices are out of control. When senior citizens have to forego prescription drugs and food in order to heat their homes and fuel their cars, something must be done." The House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming held a hearing of the oil executives. Upon questioning by Congressman Larson during the hearing, Stephen Simon of Exxon Mobil Corp sited speculation in the futures markets as one of the major causes of the exorbitant oil and gas prices we've seen. Executives from the other companies agreed. After the hearing, Congressman Larson said: "It is a rare day that I agree with major oil executives on much of anything. But, it is obvious that speculation in the oil futures markets is a major factor in the distortion of the marketplace. This has thrown the market into chaos such that the laws of supply and demand and the integrity of our system are at risk. I believe this legislation will correct the abuses and distortion we've seen in the market and give consumers a chance to get fair prices at the pump. ###
03.31.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 31, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 Congressman Larson Proposes Legislation to Lower Energy Prices Hartford, CT -- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, announced a major legislative initiative this morning that will take the speculation out of the energy futures markets. His proposal will drastically change the markets by requiring that investors in the market be able to take delivery of the petroleum product in which they are investing. This will eliminate the speculators from the market who are driving up the price of oil and natural gas. The price that average Americans pay at the pump or pay to heat their homes no longer represents true supply and demand. Prices continue to rise for energy products, reaching all time highs week after week. But, the demand for the oil and gas is not increasing. These costs are stretching wallets to the brink and making it hard for people to make ends meets. While many factors impact the price of oil, analysts blame speculation for a much of the increase we've seen recently. As other investments perform poorly, investors are putting their money into more stable markets - namely the energy futures markets where prices continue to go up. Investors outbid each other for futures contracts and consumers end up paying the price. Even the CEO of Exxon Mobil said in 2005, "We are in the mode where fundamentals of supply and demand really don't drive price." This type of artificial distortion of the oil markets, or any market, threatens the very underpinnings of our free-market system. Congressman Larson said, "Too many Americans are suffering trying to pay energy bills, put food on the table and pay for their prescriptions. It is time to fight for the little guy. It is time to restore the concept of supply and demand to oil prices. I believe this legislation will accomplish that." At the announcement today, local Connecticut petroleum dealers explained firsthand the impact speculators are having on the price of oil. John Mitchell of Mitchell Oil in South Windsor, Connecticut, told the story of one of his customers, an elderly man, who came by his office. The customer told Mitchell he was in a bind. If he filled up his tank with home heating oil and kept his house warm all winter, it would completely wipe out his Social Security check. He would not be able to pay for his food, prescription drugs and other necessities. This is not a choice this man or anyone else in our country should have to make.
03.13.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 14, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON QUESTIONS AIR FORCE EXPLANATION FOR TANKER CHOICE Washington , DC -- Members of the Connecticut delegation met with the Air Force this morning to be debriefed on the source selection process for the KC-x Tanker Program. While, the information the Air Force was limited in their ability to share specifics because of Boeing's pending protest, many important and basic questions still need to be answered. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), who called for the meeting, said afterwards, "I am still not convinced of the merits of the Northrup Grumman tanker. The Air Force was unable to give us a clear explanation of why the Northrup Grumman -EADs plane was chosen over one that would be built in this country by Boeing and Pratt and Whitney. It appears on most factors that planes were rated equally. It also seems as though the Air Force gave no consideration to the dangers of outsourcing our military technology to foreign companies. The Air Force itself is caught up in the negative impacts of globalization. They gave no consideration to the importance of maintaining a critical mass of trained and skill workers in this country who can take on any crisis we may face in the future. There are many issues that we in Congress will need to take a closer look at. One is the claims filed against EADs for receiving illegal subsidies from the European Union. Those subsidies make for an uneven playing field between the competing companies. Congress has a Constitutional responsibility to remedy the situation. That is why upcoming hearings are so important."
03.02.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 3, 2008 Contact: For Dodd - Justine Sessions/202-224-2823 For Lieberman - Erika Masonhall/202-224-4041 For Larson - Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 DODD, LIEBERMAN, LARSON HAIL DECISION TO KEEP BRISTOL SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE OPEN WASHINGTON , DC - Connecticut Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) are thrilled to announce that the Social Security Administration (SSA) has decided to keep the Bristol field office open for at least another year. The SSA had threatened to close the office last year, sending thousands of local seniors to New Britain for their Social Security needs. During the year, SSA will continue to review the need for the Bristol office. The Social Security Administration cited in letters to the Congressional delegation today, that adequate funding for 2008 is one of the key reasons they will keep the office open. The entire delegation fought to increase funding for the Social Security Administration in appropriations legislation so that it could better serve the people of Connecticut and the entire country. Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT) said, "This announcement is great news for the residents of Bristol , especially for Bristol 's senior citizens who depend on their local Social Security office for vital information and assistance. While I applaud the SSA for their decision to keep the office open for another year, I am also well aware that today we have only won a battle. I will continue to fight alongside my colleagues Senator Lieberman and Representative Larson over the coming year to help ensure that the residents of Bristol do not lose this critically important resource." Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) said, "I am extremely pleased to hear that the Bristol Social Security Office will remain open for another year. This is a significant victory for the citizens and public servants of Bristol - as well as surrounding communities such as Plymouth , Terryville, and Burlington - who depend on having access to vital services at this location. I am certain that further review by the Social Security Administration should reveal what a severe hardship would fall upon thousands of elderly and disabled citizens in our state, and I encourage the SSA to keep the Bristol office open. In the meantime, Senator Dodd, Congressman Larson, and I will do everything we can to ensure that adequate funds are appropriated for the SSA." Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) said, "The Bristol office of the Social Security Administration is an important part of the Bristol Community and vital to the seniors it serves. I am very pleased with SSA's decision to keep the office open for another year. I look forward to continuing my work with Commissioner Michael Astrue, the SSA and the entire delegation to keep the office open. All residents, most importantly our local seniors, should know that they will be able to turn to their local Social Security office for assistance and guidance for many years to come." ### WASHING
02.13.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 14, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON: REPUBLICANS TURNED THE FLOOR OF THE HOUSE TODAY INTO ANIMAL HOUSE WASHINGTON, DC - House Republicans walked off the floor of the House of Representatives today in an effort to avoid voting on contempt of Congress citations that would hold the Bush Administration in general, and Josh Bolten and Harriet Miers in particular, accountable for their involvement in the firing of U.S. Attorneys. The voting went ahead and the citations passed with the support of the Democratic majority. Congressman John B. Larson CT -01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "The political theater enacted by my colleagues on the other side of the aisle today was akin to Otter and Boone leading the Deltas out of the student body at Faber College . If this issue wasn't so important to the nation, we would have to consider holding the Republicans in double secret probation. In article 1, the Constitution lays out the authority of the Congress. For too long, that authority has been ceded to an executive branch that consistently overreaches and ignores our system of checks and balances. When Republicans left the floor of the House of Representatives, they again abdicated their responsibility as members of this body to oversee the actions of the executive branch. It is both irresponsible and unconstitutional. The Executive Branch must answer questions about the firing of U.S. Attorneys. No one in this country is exempt from a legal subpoena and Harriet Miers and Josh Bolten are not above the law. The Republican's stunt on the House floor today is just another example of their rubber stamp of this administration's disregard for the Constitution and our civil rights in the pursuit of its own political purposes. Let's remember that the need for new FISA legislation - the legislation that Republicans claimed they were leaving the floor in protest over- became apparent only when the administration's secret and illegal use of unwarranted eavesdropping was revealed. This is yet another example of the Bush Administration's dismissal of the Congress as a co-equal branch of government. Today, Democrats in the House stood up to the Administration, reasserted the power of Congress and held executive branch officials accountable for their actions. Under the leadership of our Speaker, Nancy Pelosi, we have fought to reclaim the power that the Executive Branch tried to steal and House Republicans tried to give away. I am very proud of the actions of the Democratic Caucus today."
02.06.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 7, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 CONGRESS PUTS MIDDLE CLASS BACK IN ECONOMIC DRIVER'S SEAT WASHINGTON , DC - Today, the House of the Representatives acted quickly to pass economic stimulus legislation, also approved by the Senate, to bring relief to millions of American families. Congressman John B. Larson CT -01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "What passed the House of Representatives and the Senate today is quite literally one of the most progressive tax policies this country has seen in years. We have put money directly into the hands of 35 million Americans who otherwise would have been ignored. It is these Americans who are hurting the most, whose wallets are seeing the most strain under the pressures of our slowing economy. And it is these Americans who some would have liked to leave out of a stimulus package. The lower- and middle-class are the foundation of our economy. But, their needs have been relegated to the backseat of the Bush Administration's economic policies. Now, we are beginning to put them back in the driver's seat. It is the middle and lower-class who will help steer our economy back to health This is just a first step towards economic recovery. We still have many major hurdles to overcome and much to do. This Congress will continue to work for the American people. We must rebuild our country's infrastructure. Improve our education system. And, make sure every American has access to quality healthcare. Because, every American deserves to know that if they work hard and play by the rules they will be rewarded with not just the stability but all of the potential of the American Dream." ###
01.28.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 29, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON: CONGRESS TAKES FIRST STEP TO EASE AMERICA'S ECONOMIC BURDEN WASHINGTON, DC - The House of Representatives passed a vital piece of bipartisan legislation today that will ease the burden of the slowing economy on millions of lower- and middle- income families. The legislation includes recovery rebates, benefits for businesses, and provisions that will protect families nearing home foreclosure. Congressman John B. Larson CT-01, Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus, praised the legislation and the bipartisan effort. "I commend Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Chairman Charles Rangel of the Ways and Means Committee and the leadership of both parties in the House for crafting the economic stimulus package we voted on today. In the past weeks, we have seen the value of bipartisanship as the President accepted the olive branch of cooperation that our Speaker extended to him. The outcome was an economic stimulus package that will ease the burden of a slowing economy on millions of lower- and middle-income Americans. This Congress reacted swiftly and resolutely to reports of a slowing economy and worked tirelessly to ensure that this package went to those who need it most - including 35 million low-income families who the Administration left out. This is the most progressive tax package we've seen in years. It gets money into the hands of people who will spend it to boost our economy. Will this package solve all of our economic problems - no? Is there more that needs to be done - yes? And we will continue to fight to do more for the American people. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt once said that America faced "a rendezvous with destiny." Well, today we face a rendezvous with reality. That reality is a changing world that our economy must adapt to. And, the Democratic Congress will work over the coming months to give Americans the tools you need to adapt. What we passed today, was the first in a series of programs to make this economy better. This is a good package, a progressive package and most importantly, it is a package that will give the American economy the boost it sorely needs."
01.28.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 29, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 CONGRESSMAN LARSON PRAISES PROTECTION OF NEW ENGLAND TRAIL SYSTEM WASHINGTON , DC -- In December of 2002, the President signed the Metacomet-Monadnock-Mattabesett Trail Study Act into law, which directed the National Park Service to study the trail to determine if it should be included in the National Trail System. In April of 2006, the study recommended its inclusion. Today, the House voted on and approved legislation that urges the implementation of the study's recommendations, while protecting land owners. Congressman John B. Larson CT -01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "I am thrilled that the House of Representatives voted today to protect one of our country's natural treasures - the Metacomet-Monadnock-Mattabesett Trail System. The success of this legislation is due to the hard work of the entire delegations from Connecticut and Massachusetts , and Congressmen Joe Courtney and Chris Murphy in particular. I commend them, the local communities, and the states for their work on behalf of our environment. Connecticut is proud to be home to part of what will now be the New England National Scenic Trail System, a beautiful nature trail that runs 190 miles from Massachusetts through Connecticut to the Long Island Sound. The trail is a vital part of the natural beauty and recreational activity of the First Congressional District of Connecticut, as well as the other parts of the state and neighboring Massachusetts . But, it passes through one of the most densely populated parts of the country. 2 million people live within 10 miles of the trail. The living things that call the ridge home and add to its beauty have not been protected from residential development pressures. While seventeen towns in Connecticut have signed a compact to work towards protecting the trail, we all felt that it merits federal protection. Today, the trail has earned this protection."
01.17.2008	IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 18, 2008 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 LARSON PAYS TRIBUTE TO THE LATE DR. KING Washington , D.C. -- Today Congressman John B. Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement in honor of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.'s 79th birthday, which the nation will observe on Monday: "As the nation pauses on Monday to honor the late Martin Luther King, Jr., we should reflect on how he dedicated his life to making this nation a more tolerant place. We remember his critical role in the Civil Right's Movement-the Montgomery Bus Boycott, his involvement in the formation of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, his arrest in Birmingham, the March on Washington, his outspoken stance on the war in Vietnam-a collection of heroic acts that forged change in this great nation." "Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. fought tirelessly throughout his life against injustices not only towards African Americans, but towards all members of society, in order to promote community amongst our citizens" "As we remember that legacy, it is important to recognize that the work of Dr. King is not complete. He dedicated his life to serving others and humanity. He believed in nonviolence. He believed in the greater good of mankind. What would Dr. King say about the violence plaguing cities across the country, like Hartford , in my home state of Connecticut ? Our children are growing up in war zones. Families are being devastated and a generation is being lost." "This year on Martin Luther King Day, we should all remember Dr. King and his message of nonviolence. This year, let us bring his message of compassion and nonviolence to our city streets."
01.15.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 16, 2008 Contact: For Dodd - Jamie Radice/202-224-2823 For Lieberman - Erika Masonhall/202-224-4041 For Larson - Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 For DeLauro - Adriana Surfas/202-225-3661 For Courtney - Brian Farber/202-225-2076 For Murphy - Kristen Bossi/202-225-4476 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION COMMENDS PRESIDENT'S RELEASE OF LIHEAP FUNDS WASHINGTON , DC - After an exhaustive effort by Connecticut 's Congressional delegation to bring energy assistance to low-income Connecticut families, the delegation welcomed President George Bush's decision today to release $450 million from the Low Income Home and Energy Assistance Program. This move will ease the burden that high home heating oil prices have placed on American families. The President will release $450 million in contingency funding, including approximately $13,600,000 for Connecticut . Members of the Connecticut delegation wrote to the President earlier this month asking him to release funds from LIHEAP. The LIHEAP program provides critical financial assistance to individuals and families to help pay their energy bills in times of high prices and emergencies. 86,000 families in Connecticut rely on the funds and will receive hundreds of dollars each in aid towards their energy bills. The current state of the economy is placing an undue burden on the middle and lower-class in this country. The Democratic Congress is looking forward to working with the President to act in a timely, targeted and temporary manner to provide relief. Releasing LIHEAP funds is a positive step forward. Congressman John B. Larson, CT-01, said, "This is wonderful news and a great gesture towards the spirit of bipartisanship on behalf of the President. Many of us have been calling for some time for the release of funds from LIHEAP. The cold arctic blast reminds us all how important it is to help those who are struggling to make ends meet. I commend the President for putting old debates behind us and working quickly to help Americans. I know this will bring some much needed relief to the people of Connecticut ." "Although, the President should have prioritized funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) in last year's budget instead of gutting it, I am pleased the President heeded our request and is releasing at least some of the emergency contingency funds from LIHEAP," said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). "These additional funds provided by Congress will offer families in Connecticut and the Northeast who are facing freezing temperatures some relief from the spike in oil and gas costs. I would also urge the President to take this need into account and release the remaining funds as he crafts the upcoming budget." "For many months low-income families in eastern Connecticut have felt the bitterness of the winter and a cold shoulder from the White House. I am pleased that the President has finally heeded our call to provide this critical assistance as fuel prices continue to set new records and put a financial strain on working families," stated Congressman Joe Courtney, CT-02. Congressman Chris Murphy, CT-05, said, "In the richest country in the world, no one should have to make choices between buying groceries and paying for heat. This emergency funding will come as a relief to thousands of Connecticut families and seniors who are struggling to make ends meet this winter season."
01.11.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 11, 2008 DeLauro, Larson Congratulate Chris Murphy on New Committee Assignment Murphy appointed to prestigious Energy and Commerce Committee Washington, DC - Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03) and Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) congratulated their colleague Chris Murphy (CT-05) today on his appointment to the prestigious Energy and Commerce Committee of the House of Representatives for the 111th Congress. Congressman Chris Murphy is the first member of the Connecticut Delegation to sit on the Energy and Commerce Committee since 1996 and the first Democratic member in over 20 years. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Chair-elect of the House Democratic Caucus said, "This appointment means a lot to Chris Murphy, but it means even more to the people of Connecticut whom he has served tirelessly over the past two years in Congress. This Committee will make key decisions on some of the most important issues of our time - healthcare reform, alternative energies, combating global warming. I am thrilled that Chris Murphy will lend his steady voice to the debate. Chris's new committee assignment comes because of the great work he has done and the leadership he has exhibited as a freshman member of Congress. I congratulate him and his constituents." Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (CT-03), Co-Chair of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee said, "Chris is ideally suited to serve on the Energy and Commerce Committee. As the Committee undertakes some of the most pressing challenges our country faces - health care reform, investing in alternative energy, and addressing global warming - Chris will be able to bring his strong record and knowledge on these issues to the table. He will be a strong voice for his constituents and all of Connecticut. I am very proud of the work and leadership Chris has shown over the past two years and I know he will continue to represent his district and all of Connecticut well. I congratulate him on his new committee assignment." ###
01.03.2008	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 4, 2008 Contact: For Larson - Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 For Lieberman - Rob Sawicki/202-224-4041 For DeLauro - Adriana Surfas/202-225-3661 For Courtney - Brian Farber/202-225-2076 For Murphy - Kristen Bossi/202-225-4476 Connecticut delegation calls on president bush to ease area home heating woes WASHINGTON, DC -- This afternoon, members of the Connecticut Delegation sent a letter to President George W. Bush calling on him to ease the burden of record high home heating oil prices on New England. The combination of cold weather and rising oil prices means many Connecticut families will have real trouble making ends meet this winter. The letter requests that the President release oil from the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve (NEHHOR) and make contingency funding available from the Low- Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). The delegation believes that the White House has the ability and the duty to reduce this strain on middle and lower income families in Connecticut and across the country. The Northeast is particularly vulnerable to fuel shortages and price spikes during the winter. The Energy Information Administration projects that residential heating oil prices could average $3.23 per gallon this season. With half of Connecticut's households relying on oil to heat their homes, this would have a huge economic impact on the region. There are more than 2,000 barrels of oil sitting in the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve. With these sorts of resources on hand, it is more than possible for the White House to keep high prices from delivering a major blow to the area. Senator Joseph Lieberman (CT-ID) said: "The strain on the Northeast from the rising cost of home heating oil is real and needs a real response. Our constituents are hurting and too many Connecticut families are faced with painful choices between food and heat. I hope the President will take a step to ease this pain by releasing additional reserves and funding." Congressman John B. Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, said: "Heating your home is not a luxury in this country; it is something every American should be able to do. I urge the President to take the steps necessary to keep the Northeast warm this winter. He must release available reserves and make more funding available for our low-income residents. The President may be frozen in indifference to the needs of our citizens, but Connecticut families should not suffer because of it." Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro CT-03, said: With freezing temperatures in Connecticut, along with much of the Northeast and spiking increases in oil costs, families are in a precarious position. The President, however, can alleviate some of the pressure. I urge the President to heed our request to provide families with relief and release oil from the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve (NEHHOR), as well as the available contingency funding from the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)." Congressman Chris Murphy CT-05, said: "Families in Connecticut, and across the Northeast, shouldn't have to choose between heat and other essentials. The President has the ability to help those in need, and he should do so as soon as possible as the winter freeze won't be letting up for months in Connecticut." Congressman Joe Courtney CT-02, said: "The President must understand the plight of Connecticut's families who are struggling with the burdensome costs of home heating fuel. We should never play politics with people's lives, so I urge President Bush to show compassion to those who are in need during what has so far been a very cold and snowy winter in Connecticut and all of New England." ###
12.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 5, 2007 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 (Larson) Rob Sawicki/202-224-4041 (Lieberman) COLTSVILLE DESIGNATION AS NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE GETS GREEN LIGHT FROM COMMITTEE WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, a commission of the National Park Service unanimously voted to designate Hartford’s Coltsville as a national historic site. This designation is a long time coming and represents the hard work of the entire community as well as the Congressional delegation. Congressman John B. Larson CT-01 testified in front of the commission this morning in support of the designation. The Colt Factory and the surrounding area is a landmark in Hartford and a site of great national importance. The factory and surrounding area was the seed of the Industrial Revolution in this country. The manufacturing innovations that were achieved there spawned some of the most successful businesses in the nation including Pratt and Whitney and the Ford Motor Company. Under the guidance of Sam and Elizabeth Colt, Colt Firearms established the United States as a world leader in business and brought the first American company abroad. Perhaps the most remarkable story to come out of Coltsville, though, is that of Elizabeth Colt. Elizabeth inherited the company from her husband when he died in his forties. Many of the company’s greatest achievements came about under Elizabeth’s charge. At a time when the Industrial Revolution was dominated by men, Elizabeth staked out her ground as one of our nation’s first successful female CEO’s. The entire Congressional delegation is thrilled with the commission’s decision. Senator Joseph Lieberman (ID-CT) said:“The Coltsville District is a quintessential representation of 19th- century American manufacturing and the keystone of the so-called “Precision Valley,” stretching from New Haven, Connecticut to Windsor, Vermont. I fully support the designation of Coltsville as a National Historic Landmark; this is not only good for Connecticut, but for the nation as a whole. Coltsville illustrates the technological strides our nation made through industrialization.” Congressman Larson said:“This recognition came about because of a great community wide effort. It more than symbolizes the coming together of the community in a way that preserves historical antecedents while fostering growth for the future. What better way to pay tribute to the work of Sam Colt and especially the ground breaking spirit of Elizabeth Colt. At the hearing this morning, many of the commissioners came up to me to express their enthusiastic support of the site and the presentation put forward. I know there were several skeptics from the outset. I’m glad that all of our hard work paid off.” The submission now heads to the National Park Service Advisory Board and the Secretary of the Interior for approval. ###
10.31.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 31, 2007 Contact: Emily Barocas /202-225-7295/202-593-1377 WITH TWO VOTES, DEMS STAKE OUT POSITION ON TRADE WASHINGTON -- Today, the House of Representatives voted to provide relief to workers across the country whose jobs have been lost or impacted due to trade with the passage of the Trade and Globalization Assistance Act. President Bush has threatened to veto that legislation. At the same time, he is pushing the Congress to approve free trade agreements, like the one he
10.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 12, 2007 LARSON FIGHTS FOR FIREFIGHTERS’ RIGHTS Next week, the Ways and Means Committee will hold hearings on legislation that protects and cares for our country’s war-fighters and first responders. The legislation is a package of incentives and benefits to honor their sacrifice, including a section created by Congressman John Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, that protects certain tax benefits for volunteer firefighters. Congressman Larson has worked hard on behalf of local volunteer firefighters to assure them the benefits they deserve. He is thrilled this proposal will be included in the upcoming legislation. The hearing will take place on Wednesday, October 17, 2007, at 10:00 a.m. in room 1100 Longworth House Office Building. BACKGROUND The number of volunteer firefighters in this country has been declining each year. To combat that, many towns and cities offered tax abatements and incentives to anyone who would volunteer their time as a firefighter, emergency medical technician or ambulance driver in their town. South Windsor was one of the first communities in Connecticut to enact such a program. And, the number of volunteer firefighters in the town immediately increased. But, the IRS (Internal Revenue Service) ruled that any property tax abatement would be considered income by the Federal Government and taxed as such. The town’s hands were tied. The incentive they had hoped would increase the ranks of their firefighters was diminished. Towns all over Connecticut discontinued their tax abatement programs or chose not to start new ones. SOLUTION In the legislation that the Ways and Means Committee will consider next week, Congressman Larson’s provision would change the tax code to make the tax abatements that firefighters receive not subject to income taxes. With the news that hearings will be held on the legislation, Congressman Larson said: “It is our country’s duty to honor our first responders – those serving overseas as well as those protecting us at home. This legislation will restore the benefits to these brave men and women that they deserve. It will also help towns around the country recruit new volunteer firefighters and retain those who are already serving.” Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-05) said: “In Connecticut, we rely on our first responders to keep our communities safe from everything from terror threats to flooding and fires. Especially important are the thousands of volunteer first responders in Connecticut who balance both full-time jobs and their roles in protecting our communities. This common sense bill simply makes it a little easier for them to continue to provide their crucial services.” Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-02) said: “Each and every day, volunteer emergency responders across eastern Connecticut work selflessly to protect our families and our communities. The very least we can do is make it just a little easier for them to pay their bills as they continue to serve. This hearing is an important step forward in this effort, and I applaud Congressman Larson for his advocacy on behalf of volunteer responders across Connecticut.” ###
10.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 4, 2007 The Fight Continues For Bristol’s Social Security Office Congressman John B. Larson, CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, along with Senators Chris Dodd and Joseph Lieberman, is sending a letter to the Commissioner of the Social Security Administration, Michael Astrue, urging him to reconsider his decision to close the Bristol field office. This is the next step in the ongoing fight to keep the office open for the citizens of Bristol. The budget passed by the House of Representatives this spring includes a significant increase in funding to the Social Security Administration. The pending budget request in the Senate contains an even larger increase. These funds are critical to ensure that vital services such as those provided by the Bristol field office remain available. Seniors are the fastest growing population in Bristol and the surrounding towns where 14.9 percent of the population are 65 years of age or older. The Connecticut delegation has taken a lead in this fight and feels strongly that the undue burden closing the office will place on area seniors is not worth the relatively small amount of money it will save the Social Security Administration. For Bristol’s fast growing elderly population, traveling to New Britain via public transportation is difficult. Larson said, “We must remind the Social Security Administration and the President that they owe our seniors the respect of an accessible Social Security office. We are working to lower costs for the office. I, as well as Senators Dodd and Lieberman, feel strongly about keeping the office in Bristol open.” “It is critical that seniors have easy access to Social Security offices,” said Dodd. “I will continue to work closely with Senator Lieberman and Representative Larson to urge Commissioner Astrue to reconsider his decision to close the Bristol office. Thousands of Connecticut seniors rely on Social Security and they should not be forced to jump through hoops in order to get the benefits they deserve.” “I am extremely disappointed by Commissioner Astrue’s decision to close the Bristol Social Security Office,” Lieberman said. “Consolidating this office with the New Britain office would be a tremendous burden on seniors in our state. Earlier this year, Senator Dodd, Representative Larson and I met Commissioner Astrue to hear the agency’s budget concerns, and we responded by working in the House and the Senate to increase the budget for the Social Security Administration. In view of these facts, I urge Commissioner Astrue to reconsider this decision.” The City of Bristol and the landlord of the local Social Security office stand ready to assist the Social Security Adminstration in any way to keep the office open. ###
10.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 3, 2007 LARSON: PRESIDENT?S PRIORITIES ARE ALL WRONG Today, President Bush vetoed legislation that would provide healthcare to millions of poor children whose families could not otherwise afford insurance. The SCHIP bill was passed through both houses of Congress with bipartisan support. Congressman John Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus said: ?I think it is unbelievable that the president has now vetoed three things over the course of his presidency. He vetoed funding for stem cell research. He vetoed withdrawing our troops from Iraq. And now he vetoes SCHIP ? a bipartisan bill that provides healthcare to poor children. He is obviously more focused on funding and continuing this unpopular war than on helping the young and the sick. Sadly, we now know what he meant by compassionate conservative. Only 24 Republicans in House stand in the way of a veto override. I hope they have the courage and the sense to vote for this very important legislation.? ###
09.30.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 30, 2007 LARSON MEETS WITH BRISTOL OFFICIALS TO STRATEGIZE BRISTOL ? Congressman John Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, met with town officials from Bristol yesterday to renew his vow to fight to keep the local Social Security Office open. News came late Friday that the Social Security Administration had decided to shut down the office in early November, after threatening for months to do so. In attendance for the meeting were the Congressman, a representative from Senator Chris Dodd?s office (CT-D), Bristol Mayor William Stortz, State Senator Tom Colapietro, State Representative Ron Burns, members of the Bristol Chamber of Commerce and members of the Bristol Town Council. Congressman Larson listened to the group?s concerns and stressed to all in attendance his commitment to keep the office open. ?I will continue to fight to keep this office open. There is an additional $400 million for the Social Security Administration in the budget that the House passed and even more in the budget the Senate is considering. I urge the Social Security Administration to reconsider. And, I urge the President to stop using the threat of a budget veto to further his political agenda, while our seniors go without the services they desperately need,? said Congressman Larson. ###
09.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 27, 2007 Larson: Bush Betrays America?s Children Today, the Senate is expected to vote on and pass legislation that will provide healthcare coverage to millions of America?s poor children. The President has threatened to veto that legislation when it lands on his desk, despite its bipartisan support in the House of Representatives and the Senate. John Larson CT-01, Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus says: ?First, the President promised to extend health coverage for children. Now, he is trying to renege on that promise by threatening to veto the SCHIP legislation, putting ten million low income kids at risk. The President is moving down a dangerous road trying to privatize core healthcare programs that protect the working poor. The bill we sent to the President?s desk today is bipartisan legislation with strong conservative support. I urge the President to think carefully before he vetoes this bill. It is bitter and ironic that the President continues to ask for billions of dollars for the War in Iraq at the same time he wants to let healthcare for America?s children go unfunded. If he does veto this bill, he will isolate himself from mainstream America. But, more importantly he will tell this country?s children that they don?t matter.? ###
09.19.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 19, 2007 Larson Applauds TRIA and Protection of the American Way of Life By passing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Revision and Extension Act of 2007 (TRIA) today with a vote of 312 to 110, Congress has secured the growth of American business and personal property in the wake of a terrorist attack. Congressman John Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, is pleased that after years of working with our constituents and the insurance and financial services industries, Congress was able to craft a bill that was so widely supported. ?This legislation is a major blow to terrorist goals of disrupting our economy. It provides the stability necessary to keep America strong and our economy growing in the aftermath of a terrorist attack.? After September 11th, Congress came together to pass TRIA, legislation that reinforces and assists insurance companies whose resources could have been depleted by the destruction of the attacks. By doing that, money was pumped back into the area around ground zero to encourage the rehabilitation and reconstruction we see in lower Manhattan today. This new version of TRIA will extend these protections and encourage growth around the country. Congressman Larson said, ?economic development efforts like those we see throughout Connecticut require some degree of certainty that there will be relief if there is another terrorist incident. By acting as a backstop in the event of a terrorist attack, TRIA provides that certainty.? The passage of TRIA also makes sure that insurance companies have the resources to pay important personal claims that coincide with a terrorist attack. Without this bill, insurance companies could easily exhaust their resources paying out claims related to an attack ? leaving nothing over for other claims. But, TRIA provides a safety net to the American people so that a family in Connecticut whose home burns down in a completely separate incident could be secure knowing that there will be insurance money available to them. ?TRIA and the federal government will ensure that insurance reserves are never depleted by a terrorist attack. There will be money available to the average American to cover their insurance claims.? The bill passed today, extends the protection passed after 9/11 for another 15 years. It also expands the coverage of TRIA in these key ways: it covers domestic acts of terrorism in addition to foreign acts of terrorism; it includes acts of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological terrorism that were not part of the original legislation; and it adds group life insurance to the list of insurances for which terrorism insurance coverage must be made available. Protecting the safety and security of America is a top priority in the 110th Congress. ###
09.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 11, 2007 Larson Remembers the Victims of September 11th 2001 Washington, D.C. ? To mark the six year anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks Congressman John Larson CT-01, Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, released the following statement: ?On this sixth anniversary of the terrorist attacks of September 11th, I extend my greatest sympathies to the families and friends of the victims. In particular, I want to recognize those in my district whose lives were forever changed on that day. Know that the country is still with you and that your loved ones are among our greatest heroes. Many showed a bravery and strength that saved lives and indelibly marked each of them on our national consciousness. We all remember that day as a definitive moment in American history. Our world changed, our country changed and all of our lives changed when terrorists flew planes into some of our country?s most beloved landmarks. When the dust settled and we saw the light of the next day, people in Washington and across the nation came together. Without regard to race, religion or political party, we prayed for our neighbors, friends and fellow citizens. Those days reminded us that despite our differences, we are all Americans and we are stronger when we act together. Last year, on the fifth anniversary of the attacks, I stated my disappointment in a Republican Congress that had enacted fewer than half of the recommendations agreed upon by the bipartisan 9-11 Commission. Today, I am proud to announce that our Democratic-controlled Congress has passed legislation that strengthens and secures our country by enacting all 41 critical recommendations. That legislation was signed into law by President Bush on August 3rd. But there is still a lot of work to be done. While the Bush Administration has been focused elsewhere, Osama bin Laden remains on the loose ? free to release videos conveying his message of hate. Al Qaeda?s leadership has been allowed to reconstitute itself in Pakistan, making our country more vulnerable to another attack. The testimony of General David Petraeus yesterday was just another example of how this Administration has taken its eye off of the key issue of our time. I implore the White House to put its focus back where it belongs - capturing Osama bin Laden and dismantling Al Qaeda?s terrorist network.? ###
09.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 10, 2007 Larson Responds To Petraeus Testimony on Iraq WASHINGTON ? Today, before the House Armed Services and Foreign Affairs Committees, General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker offered ?uneven progress? in Iraq, but asked for more time for a military strategy to work. This testimony comes after the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office and an independent commission of retired military officers report Iraq has failed to meet key benchmarks. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus released the following statement: ?Today, General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker asked for more time and more patience from Congress on Iraq. Unfortunately for our men and women in uniform the Petraeus timetable is not a timeframe to bring them home it?s a timeframe for President Bush to save face and run out the clock on his administration. But, the American people have run out of patience and Bush?s Iraq policies have run out of time. I have the utmost respect for General Petraeus and his lifetime of military accomplishments. But, he has been asked to carry out an unworkable policy. Our troops on the ground have achieved everything we have asked of them, yet Iraqi political leaders have fallen short. It is time to take the burden of this war off of the shoulders of America?s young men and women in uniform. When 78% of Americans think it is time for us to withdraw from Iraq and 60% of Iraqis think it is acceptable to attack our soldiers, we cannot afford more time and patience. We can not afford to give this administration another deadline extension at the expense of American blood and money.? ###
08.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 29, 2007 LARSON BILL WOULD URGE POLLUTERS TO CLEAN UP THEIR ACT WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced legislation aimed at shifting the burden of payroll taxes from working Americans to polluters who create carbon emissions. The America?s Energy Security Trust Fund Act (H.R. 3416) would create a trust fund which would provide a payroll tax rebate to working Americans and provide tax credits for research, development and investment into alternative energy technologies like wind, solar, and hydrogen fuel cells. The trust fund would be funded by a ?carbon tax.? A per-unit tax would be placed on the carbon dioxide content of fossil fuels at the point when they enter the economy: at oil refineries, coal processing plants and points of import. Larson stated: ?The goal of this legislation is to reduce the demand for fossil fuels and promote cleaner, more efficient energy sources. By shifting the burden of payroll taxes away from working Americans, this bill provides a transparent way to incentivize polluters to decrease their carbon emissions. ?Not only is this good environmental and energy policy, it is fair tax policy. This bill is an important move toward shifting taxes away from positive things, like labor, and onto negative things, like pollution. ?The longer we wait to tackle the problem of carbon emissions, the more difficult and more expensive it will become. By taxing polluters and allocating those funds for the promotion of alternative energy sources, like the hydrogen fuel cells produced in Connecticut, we will take bold steps towards energy independence and a cleaner environment.? Larson, as a member of both the House Ways and Means Committee and the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, has been actively involved in finding ways within the tax code to encourage more American companies to invest in clean energy and engage in business practices that are better for the environment. ###
08.28.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 28, 2007 REPS. LARSON, COURTNEY CONDEMN BUSH?S DECISION TO CUT HEALTH CARE FOR THOUSANDS OF CT CHILDREN HARTFORD ? U.S. Representatives John B. Larson (CT-1) and Joe Courtney (CT-2) today denounced President George W. Bush?s decision to cut health care coverage for thousands of Connecticut children currently enrolled in the state?s successful HUSKY B program. Larson and Courtney were joined at Connecticut Children?s Medical Center (CCMC) by CCMC President and CEO Martin J. Galvin and CCMC Physician-in-Chief Paul Dworkin, MD. Late on Friday night, August 17, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services sent a letter to state health officials informing them of unilateral rules changes made by the White House to significantly reduce the income thresholds states use to determine the eligibility of children for the State Children?s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which provides funds for HUSKY B. The new rules will result in an immediate cessation of benefits for many children currently enrolled in the program and will create additional bureaucratic requirements on the already financially strained Connecticut Department of Social Services. On August 1, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Children?s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act by a vote of 225 to 204. Larson and Courtney voted in favor of this legislation which would reauthorize and fund the SCHIP program at $50 billion. Larson stated: ?House passage of the CHAMP Act earlier this month brought hope to nearly 50,000 uninsured children in Connecticut. However, with the stroke of a pen, the President wants to completely undo the work of Congress and deny states like Connecticut the ability to provide assistance to more children in need. Under the President?s plan, many lower-income children would be forced to receive care in emergency rooms, like the one here at CCMC, instead of a more appropriate setting, like a doctor?s office.? Courtney stated: ?With this middle of the night policy change, President Bush has undermined Connecticut?s efforts to expand and improve health coverage for children. Connecticut could face potential losses in federal funding that could result in children being thrown off HUSKY, rather than adding more children in need. I strongly oppose this policy change and support a remedy through the passage of the CHAMP Act.? ?All of Connecticut?s children should have the health care they need to grow and learn. At CCMC, 45% of our patients rely on HUSKY. Without HUSKY B, many of these children would have been uninsured and limited in their access to health care services,? said Martin J. Gavin, President and CEO at CCMC. The thresholds for determining eligibility for SCHIP are based upon the federal poverty level, but states have the authority to reasonably increase those levels to cover more children and families in high cost areas. Connecticut?s HUSKY B program allows those families with up to 300 percent family income above the poverty level to enroll. The President?s plan will only allow states to cover families above 250 percent of the federal poverty level if participation levels are over 95%. Currently, no states have reached that participation level. Additionally, states that wish to cover families above 250 percent of the federal poverty level would be be required to establish a one-year minimum waiting period of being uninsured before those families would be eligible for SCHIP programs. States like Connecticut would then be forced to drop coverage for these lower-income families. ###
08.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 13, 2007 LARSON BILL WOULD COMMISSION PANEL TO EXAMINE HEDGE FUNDS, PRIVATE EQUITY WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced the introduction of the Commission on the Study of Hedge Funds and Private Equity Act (H.R. 3417) to create a commission which would comprehensively study the hedge fund and private equity industry. Larson introduced the bill prior to the House adjourning for its August District Work Period. Larson stated, ?Coming from a state like Connecticut with a strong financial services sector, I felt that a commission examining hedge funds and private equity would complement the upcoming hearings of the Ways and Means Committee. I stand firmly behind Chairman Rangel and the Ways and Means Committee?s efforts to determine what is the proper tax treatment for these business models. However, recognizing the importance of hedge funds and private equity to my state and my district, I believe it important to take a broader look at this issue. This commission would go beyond the tax treatment of hedge funds and private equity and examine whether better regulation is necessary and if so, what type of regulation would be appropriate. It impacts more than just the taxation of fund managers, it impacts those American workers who may have pensions with investments in this area. We simply need to learn more about this sector of the financial services industry.? The bill would create a commission of ten members which would study the tax treatment of hedge funds and private equity, as well as their impact on the U.S. economy as a whole. Membership of the commission would be comprised of experts chosen by the Speaker of the House, Senate Majority Leader, House Minority Leader, and Senate Minority Leader within thirty days of the bill?s enactment. Once members have been appointed, the commission has ninety days to complete its study and report back to Congress. ###
08.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 9, 2007 LARSON RALLIES COMMUNITY BEHIND IMPROVED COLTSVILLE NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK APPLICATION HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) last night hosted a forum to update the public on the status of Coltsville?s application to become a National Historic Landmark and explain the improvements that have been made to the application. Larson gathered the public and private stakeholders in the project, including: Hartford Mayor Eddie Perez, Connecticut General Assembly House Speaker James Amann, Jim O?Connell from the National Park Service, Rebekah MacFarlane from Colt Gateway, and historian Bruce Clouette. ?As I have said all along, recognizing Coltsville?s heritage and the role of Samuel and Elizabeth Colt in shaping Hartford and revolutionizing American business will be an important step in revitalizing the city,? stated Larson. ?The whole community, including federal, state, and local government officials have worked together to make great improvements to the application for National Historic Landmark status. I will continue to work closely with everyone gathered tonight to see this project through to its successful completion.? The renewed application for National Historic Landmark status expands the scope of the area being considered to include not only the former Colt factory buildings, but the former worker houses on Huyshope and Curcombe Streets, Colt Park, the Colt mansions on Wethersfield Avenue, and the buildings at the Church of the Good Shepard. Larson initiated the effort to federally recognize the historic significance of Coltsville in 2002 with Senators Chris Dodd and Joseph Lieberman. They successfully passed the Coltsville Study Act into law in 2003, requiring the National Park Service to make recommendations about adding Coltsville to the system. ###
08.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 8, 2007 HARTFORD FIRE DEPARTMENT RECEIVES FEDERAL FIRE GRANT HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced a federal grant award of $601,000 to the City of Hartford from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program at the Hartford Fire Department Headquarters. Larson, who wrote to the Department of Homeland Security in support of the grant, and Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) Region 1 Administrator Art Cleaves presented Hartford Mayor Eddie Perez and Hartford Police Chief Charles Teale with a mock check representing the grant in front of the outdated 100 foot ladder truck that will be replaced with the funding. Larson stated, ?I?m pleased to join Administrator Cleaves in presenting this award to Mayor Perez and Chief Teale for the City of Hartford. The new Tower Ladder that will be purchased with these funds will provide city residents with additional peace of mind knowing that the fire department is equipped with the latest technology. I have been a long time supporter of the Assistance to Firefighters Grant program because I have seen how it benefits cities like Hartford and improves local public safety.? Chief Teale stated, ?This grant will be utilized to help purchase a new Tower Ladder. The apparatus it will replace was purchased in 1979. At 28 years of age it does not adequately protect the Firefighters on the apparatus and is prone to frequent breakdowns, which presents a danger to citizens who rely on a timely response. This funding will greatly enhance our ability to respond to emergencies region wide and will allow the Department to otherwise allocate financial resources for Fire Prevention purposes. The Assistance to Firefighter Grant program has aided the Hartford Fire Department in the past as we pursued the resources necessary to be of service to the residents of our City but this allocation is unparallel in the 218 year history of our organization. This will go a long way as we face the challenges related to maintaining our Class 1 rating. I would like to thank Congressman Larson for his continued diligence and dedication when it comes to saving lives and protecting property.? ###
08.07.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 7, 2007 LARSON ANNOUNCES NURSING FACILITY FIRE SAFETY LEGISLATION AT EAST HARTFORD NURSING HOME EAST HARTFORD
08.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 4, 2007 LARSON REINTRODUCES VETERANS HEALTH CARE LEGISLATION WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1)today reintroduced the 21st Century Veterans Equitable Treatment Act (VET-21). The legislation represents a longstanding commitment from Larson to improve access to health care for America?s veterans. During a February 2002 forum in Newington, Larson listened to the concerns of local veterans about the imbalance of health care funding from the Department of Veteran?s Affairs (VA) for New England. Based on those concerns, Larson originally introduced VET-21 in October 2002. Larson stated, ?With our nation at war, it is more important than ever that our veterans receive the level of care they deserve for their service to this country. When the VA was created, we made a promise to provide them with world class health care. This legislation will ensure that no matter where a veteran is, he or she will not go without treatment. ?This bill will do nothing to take away from the VA health care system. In fact, I was proud to have recently voted for historic increases in veterans? health and benefit programs, totaling nearly $12 billion. This bill will merely enhance the level of health care we offer to veterans.? U.S. Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5) joined Larson in introducing the bill. ?Our veterans need the best care this country has to offer and they shouldn?t have to wait for it. This bill is so critical to our veterans because while we clean up the mess created by years of insufficient funding in veterans healthcare programs, their immediate healthcare needs have to be met. And with thousands of brave men and women returning from conflicts abroad with wounds ranging from lost limbs to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, we have to find a way to make the VA system work. That is why I am proud to sponsor this bill with my colleague John Larson,? said Murphy. VET-21 would require the Secretary of VA to set limits for the amount of time that a veteran has to wait for appointments using the VA?s established performance goals. If the VA cannot meet these standards, the bill would allow a veteran to seek service or treatment at a non-VA medical facility for which the veteran would have otherwise qualified within the VA system. It also recommends ?Smart Card? technology to expedite reimbursements for services and reduce complicated paperwork. ###
08.02.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 2, 2007 LARSON TAKES A STAND FOR THE TROOPSVotes for bill to mandate troop rest times equal to deployment times WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today voted in favor of the Ensuring Military Readiness Through Stability and Predictability Deployment Policy Act (H.R. 3159), which passed by a vote of 229 to 194. The bill would mandate minimum periods of rest and recuperation for units and members of regular and reserve components of the Armed Forces between deployments. Larson stated, ?Most recently, we heard at a World Affairs Council meeting in Hartford from General Eric Shinseki and Congressional Medal of Honor recipient Paul Bucha. They stressed that there is a nonpartisan desire to achieve the goal of troop readiness. It is essential and important for both our troops and their families. ?An unprecedented strain has been placed on the members of the Reserve and National Guard. There is a growing stress on their mental health and on their families. Excessive deployments are having a negative impact on recruiting and retention and our military as a whole is at a dangerously low level of readiness.? An estimated 250,000 soldiers in the Army and Marine Corps have served more than one tour in Iraq and each of the Army?s available active duty combat brigades has served at least a 12-month tour in Iraq or Afghanistan. On top of this, the Secretary of Defense announced in the spring that all active duty Army soldiers would have their tours in Iraq extended from 12 to 15 months. ###
08.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 1, 2007 LARSON VOTES TO PRESERVE CHILDREN?S HEALTH CARE, IMPROVE MEDICARE WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today voted in favor of the Children?s Health and Medicare Protection Act (H.R. 3162), which passed by a vote of 225 to 204. Larson stated, ?To date, the President and Republicans in Congress have found the time and money to blindly put forward nearly $42 billion on reconstruction efforts in Iraq. But they could not find the time nor the effort to ensure that children in our own country have access to health care. It is imperative that we have passed this bill because these are our children. If the President had his way, the coverage of over 20,000 children in Connecticut would be cut. Instead, 50,000 uninsured children in Connecticut will be helped by the bill we have passed today.? Also known as the CHAMP Act, the bill reauthorizes and funds the State Children?s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) at $50 billion, allowing Connecticut?s successful HUSKY Part B program to continue serving children from lower-income families. The bill also improves the Medicare program for seniors by stopping impending cuts to physician reimbursements, improving access to preventive and mental health services, and providing additional help to low-income seniors. Included as well are provisions championed by Larson to halt cuts in Medicare reimbursements to long-term care hospitals, enhance patient quality of care, and protect patient access to these important health care facilities. ###
07.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 27, 2007 LARSON: 9/11 COMMISSION BILL WILL MAKE AMERICA SAFER FROM TERRORIST ATTACKS WASHINGTON
07.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 27, 2007 LARSON SUPPORTS REFORM IN AMERICA?S AGRICULTURE POLICY WASHINGTON, D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted for a new direction in America?s agriculture policy. The Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act of 2007 (H.R. 2419) was passed by a vote of 213 to 191 in the U.S. House of Representatives. ?The Farm Bill we passed today will protect family farmers in Connecticut and across the nation,? stated Larson. ?It represents true reform by ending subsidies to millionaires and increasing transparency. For too long, farmers in the Northeast have been shortchanged by federal farm policy. However, for the first time ever, this Farm Bill provides assistance in the amount of $1.6 billion for the specialty crops grown here in Connecticut and across New England. ?I?m also pleased to see that this bill makes key investments in renewable fuels that will help end our dependence on foreign oil. It also strengthens conservation programs and encourages cooperation between USDA and producers to deliver conservation programs. ?Not only does this bill help produce the food that we eat, it helps put that food on the table of American families by enhancing the food stamp program. No family in this day and age should have to worry about going hungry. ?This bill is the product of the hard work of many, but I would especially like to thank Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN) for leading the most open Farm Bill drafting process in more than a decade. All of America?s farming interests are represented in this bill, not just those of the wealthiest few.? The Farm Bill, which is renewed about every five years, authorizes federal farm support, food assistance, agriculture trade, rural development and conservation policies. ###
07.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 27, 2007 LARSON PRAISES WAYS AND MEANS PASSAGE OF CHILDREN?S HEALTH, MEDICARE BILLIncludes long-term care hospital provisions championed by Larson WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) last night participated in the markup and passage of the Children?s Health and Medicare Protection Act (H.R. 3162) in the House Ways and Means Committee. Also known as the CHAMP Act, the bill reauthorizes the State Children?s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and will provide health care to 11 million children. In Connecticut, it will protect the coverage of 23,100 children enrolled in the HUSKY program with the option to expand coverage to an additional 46,200 children. The bill also enhances and protects the Medicare program for seniors. The Committee passed the bill by a 24 to 17 vote. Larson joined with fellow Ways and Means Committee member Congressman Earl Pomeroy (D-ND) to work extensively with the Committee to include provisions of the Medicare Long-Term Care Patient Safety and Improvement Act of 2007 (H.R. 3057). These provisions will amend policies by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that sought to cut Medicare reimbursements to long-term care hospitals. The legislation will enhance patient quality of care and protect patient access to long-term care hospitals. Larson stated, ?I?m pleased to have worked with Congressman Pomeroy to protect patients? access to long-term care facilities. These common sense measures will not only improve quality of care but will provide savings to Medicare.? Specifically, the CHAMP Act: Reauthorizes the State Children?s Health Insurance Program set to expire on September 30, 2007, and expands health coverage to millions more low-income children. Reverses efforts to privatize Medicare by reducing overpayments to private plans. Preserves access to health care by stopping a 10% physician payment cut and providing doctors with positive updates for the next two years. Encourages seniors to seek preventive health benefits by eliminating co-payments and deductibles. Improves access to mental health services and physical, occupational and speech therapies. Protects low-income seniors by expanding and improving programs to ensure Medicare remains affordable for those with lower incomes. ?This bill is a combination of good health policy and good tax policy,? stated Larson. ?Today this committee approved legislation that will help some of our most vulnerable citizens: children and seniors.? The House Energy and Commerce Committee, which shares jurisdiction on this bill with the Ways and Means Committee, is also considering the CHAMP Act this week. ###
07.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 25, 2007 LARSON STATEMENT ON HOUSE PASSAGE OF BAN ON PERMANENT BASES IN IRAQ WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, today released the following statement on legislation to prohibit the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq. Larson voted in favor of the bill (H.R. 2929), which passed the House by a vote of 399 to 24. Larson stated: ?Today?s vote marks another step towards the eventual goal of withdrawing our troops from Iraq. Declaring that America will not have a permanent military presence in Iraq is good for the Iraqi people and government, who have consistently indicated that they do not want a U.S. presence. By taking the American face off what we now know to be a disastrous invasion, we protect the safety of our troops and emphasize the need for strategic withdrawal. ?Two weeks ago, the House voted to begin redeploying troops and we will keep bringing up legislation to drive home the message to the President: the American people want a new direction in Iraq.? H.R. 2929 states that it is the policy of the United States not to establish any military installation or base for the purpose of providing a permanent stationing of United States Armed Forces in Iraq. It also declares that it is United States policy not to exercise U.S. control of Iraqi oil resources. The bill also prohibits the use of any funds provided by any law from being used to carry out any policy that contradicts these statements of policy. ###
07.20.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 20, 2007 CT House Congressional Delegation Restores Ryan White HIV/AIDS Funding Washington, D.C. ? Connecticut?s House Congressional Delegation applauded the inclusion of emergency funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program for New Haven and Hartford in the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education Appropriation Bill for fiscal year 2008. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives 276 ? 140. The legislation also needs to be voted on by the Senate, approved by both chambers and signed by the President. As a result, New Haven and Hartford will receive an additional $712,334 and $892,259, respectively, increasing their 2007 funding to $5.5 million for New Haven and $3.8 million for Hartford. This year, funding for Hartford, New Haven and the surrounding areas lost a combined total of $3 million in Ryan White funding because the Health Resources and Services Association incorrectly interpreted provisions included in the 2006 reauthorization intended to prevent drastic cuts from happening. ?This additional funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program will reduce the losses felt by our communities from the drastic, destabilizing funding cuts this year. Ryan White funds are absolutely vital for our communities striving to assist individuals and families affected by HIV and AIDS with health care costs and support services. When we reauthorized the program last year, there was no indication at the time that Connecticut and many other jurisdictions would experience such severe cuts and the funds in this bill will ensure our communities do not have a significant reduction in services,? said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT ? 3). "The Ryan White program has long been critical in helping individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS. The loss of Ryan White funds in the state of Connecticut this year is completely unacceptable. While we continue to hold the Administration accountable for these cuts, the Connecticut delegation remains committed to minimizing the devastating impact on our communities. This bill and the funding it provides will make a difference in so many lives. I commend leaders like Rosa DeLauro who worked tirelessly in the Appropriations Committee to ensure additional funding was included in the final bill,? stated Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1). "I strongly support providing the necessary resources for Ryan White Care Act programs, which help individuals living with this disease maintain their quality of life. I am grateful the Appropriations Committee included this language and prevented a large cut in federal funding to our state. Our entire delegation will continue working on a bipartisan basis to keep Connecticut's HIV/AIDS treatment programs among the strongest in the nation." ? Rep. Chris Shays (CT-4) "Due to failures at many levels of government, Connecticut residents living with HIV and AIDS were pinning their hopes on supplemental grant funding to plug some of the inexcusable gaps in coverage for health needs, housing, and food. Congress had been left to clean up the mess, and along with advocates across the state, the Connecticut delegation has been working against the clock to fight for what is right for our communities. This week, we won a battle in that fight, and I will continue to work to secure additional funding for those with HIV and AIDS,? said Congressman Chris Murphy (CT ? 5). "Restoring a significant portion of the Ryan White program?s critical funding is a step forward for those individuals and their families affected by HIV/AIDS. I am pleased that Connecticut will now receive a larger share of federal funding than initially anticipated to support those hit hardest by the epidemic," said Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-2). ###
07.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 12, 2007 REP. LARSON URGES REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES TO VOTE THEIR CONSCIENCE, STAND UP TO THE PRESIDENT & SUPPORT OUR TROOPS WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement regarding House consideration of H.R. 2956, The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. In addition, Larson responds to the White House release of an interim report on the progress in Iraq. ?The President?s own report says there is unsatisfactory progress being made in Iraq and the Iraqi government has failed to meet key benchmarks. This report is a clear indication that the President?s policy is failing, has failed and is unlikely that there will be any improvements between now and September. It?s time to get out now. ?The American people found their voice on the Iraq war a long time ago. Democrats have long been leading the charge for a new direction in Iraq and a growing number of courageous Republicans are finding their voice, rejecting the President?s failed stay the course strategy. I urge my Republican colleagues who are still on the fence?torn between blindly following the President?s failed policy and bringing our troops home---to reexamine where their loyalties lie.? The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act acknowledges that our military has accomplished the mission they were given in the original 2002 authorization to use force and that Iraq is now responsible for its own future; Requires American forces to begin redeploying within 120 days and to complete the transition to a limited presence by April 1, 2008; Reiterates that the redeployment must be done in a safe and orderly way, with maximum attention paid to the protection of American forces; Requires a comprehensive strategy by January 1, 2008 for U.S. policy in Iraq, including a discussion of American national security interests in Iraq and the broader region, the specific missions remaining forces would undertake, and minimum force levels required to accomplish them; The resolution names specific missions that the President must consider, but it does not require or authorize those missions; Requires the President to submit updates on the use of and need for any forces remaining in Iraq every 90 days starting on July 1, 2008. ###
07.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 11, 2007 REP. LARSON PRAISES PASSAGE OF COLLEGE COST REDUCTION ACT OF 2007Increase in aid to have substantial, positive impact on Connecticut students WASHINGTON - Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding House passage of the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007 (HR 2269). The bill provides the single largest increase in college aid since the GI bill, at no cost to taxpayers. In Connecticut, this bill provides a $130 million increase in student loan and Pell Grant aid that could impact up to 39,500 students in Connecticut over five years. ?College costs are rapidly rising and students have to take on more debt in order to pursue their college education?many are having to forgo a college education because it just costs too much. Today, we took a giant step forward towards making college more affordable for hundreds of thousands of aspiring students. Only by making college more affordable and accessible will we be able to compete in a globalizing world,? said Larson. The College Cost Reduction Act: Boosts college financial aid by roughly $18 billion over the next five years and does so in accordance with pay-as-you-go budget rules. Provides a $500 increase in the Pell Grant scholarship, using mandatory funds, phased in over four years ? and on top of the appropriated amount. The bill cuts interest rates in half on need-based undergraduate student loans over the next five years. Once fully phased in, this will save the typical student with $13,800 in need-based loan debt approximately $4,400 over the life of the loan. This expands eligibility to include and serve more people with financial need. Increases the borrowing limits for third and fourth year students to $7,500 and increases the aggregate borrowing limits for undergraduate students to $30,500 ? allowing students and families to rely less on more expensive private educational loans. Provides $5,000 in loan forgiveness for those serving the country in critical public service jobs, including first responders, law enforcement officers, firefighters, nurses, public defenders, prosecutors, early childhood educators, and librarians. Ensures that we place a highly qualified teacher in every classroom through the creation of TEACH grants that would provide up-front tuition assistance of $4,000 per year (for a maximum of $16,000) for high-achieving graduate and under-graduate students who commit to teaching a high-need subject in a high-need school for four years. The bill makes a landmark investment of $500 million in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic Serving Institutions, Tribal Colleges and the Alaska/Hawaiian Native schools as well as the newly established Predominately Black Institutions and institutions serving Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. Establishes the College Access Challenge Grants to leverage Federal funds to increase the number of students from underserved populations who enter and complete college through matching grants to philanthropic organizations. All of these increases in college financial aid are fully offset by reducing excessive federal subsidies that the federal government pays to lenders in the college loan industry. These offsets build on the proposals that this House overwhelmingly passed as part of H.R. 5 in January. ###
07.06.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 6, 2007 Reps. Murphy, Larson Highlight Historic Commitment to Veterans FundingDemocrats increase veterans funding by nearly $12M, highest increase of 77 year history of VA HARTFORD, CT - Today, Congressmen John Larson (CT-1) and Congressman Chris Murphy (CT-5) held a press conference in Hartford with local veterans to highlight Democrats? record commitment to our nation?s troops and veterans. This year, House Democrats have pushed for record increases in veterans? health care and benefits programs, totaling nearly $12 billion, to meet the needs of returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. With the largest single increase to the Veterans Administration (VA) budget in the 77 year history of the agency, this year?s budget increase will assist the more than 251,000 veterans and soldiers in Connecticut returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. Next year, the VA is expecting to treat 5.8 million patients, including 263,000 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. ?For too many years our nation?s veterans have been shortchanged when it comes to providing quality healthcare and services. Our actions send a clear message to America?s servicemen and women, their families, and our veterans that a grateful nation deeply respects their service and sacrifice,? said Larson. ?Supporting such a large increase to our Veterans Affairs budget this year was simply a no-brainer. Congress is finally acting to get our nation?s men and women, who have sacrificed so much, the health care that they deserve,? said Murphy. This effort began in January, when Larson, the Vice-Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, and Murphy, a new Member elected to change the way Washington works, quickly moved a funding bill that gives a $3.4 billion increase in VA funding to meet the needs of an estimated 219,000 new veterans entering the VA system in 2007. Connecticut is home to Veterans Centers in New Haven, Hartford, and Norwich. With the funding increases expected to pass this year, these centers may see an estimated 17% increase from FY07 to FY08. New Haven has a Global War on Terror (GWOT) counselor and is recruiting another member for its staff. Hartford has a GWOT counselor and a part-time Military Sexual Trauma Counselor. Norwich is planning to add another member to its staff. An estimated one-third of veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan are facing mental health challenges. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill, which recently passed the House of Representatives with Murphy and Larson?s support, provides $600 million more than the President?s request for mental health, Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and traumatic brain injuries. ?I can?t imagine how the Veterans Administration could handle the needs of recently returning soldiers without this historic funding increase. This nation is asking our brave men and women to perform heroic tasks across the globe, and we must be ready to care for them when they return. This year, we have lived up to our end of the bargain,? said Murphy. ?There are over 250,000 veterans living in Connecticut and many more that will come home from Iraq and Afghanistan. They are our nation?s heroes and have served and protected our nation with pride and dignity. We must give them the care and respect worthy of their sacrifice and they deserve no less,? added Larson. Larson also unveiled the VETS-21 (21st Century Veterans Equal Treatment Act) legislation he will be introducing in July, with Murphy?s support, that will address veteran?s access to quality healthcare. The bill addresses the glaring inequities that exist in the veteran?s health care system by guaranteeing adequate health care for the nation's veterans by allowing them to receive the same service they would qualify for through the VA at non-VA medical facilities, should the VA be unable to meet its stated performance goals. ###
06.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 27, 2007 CT Delegation Honors Freedom Schooner Amistad?s 14-month 2007 Atlantic Freedom TourMarks 200th Anniversary of the Elimination of the Transatlantic Slave Trade Washington, D.C. ? The entire Connecticut delegation introduced a resolution to applaud the Freedom Schooner Amistad?s 14-month 2007 Atlantic Freedom Tour, which will recognize the critical role the Amistad played in ending the transatlantic slave trade. This journey will preserve the ship?s legacy and in doing so will help promote multi-cultural dialogue, education, and cooperation. ?As the freedom Schooner Amistad sets sail on a 14-month journey, its voyage serves as an opportunity to remind us of our history and the struggle for freedom and the elimination of slavery. The Amistad is a strong symbol that even the darkest hours of our nation?s history can ultimately provide the tools for change. I hope that this anniversary voyage will begin dialogues around the country and around the globe about the struggle for liberty that continues today,? said Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. ?Thanks to the hard work of AMISTAD America, Inc., people across the globe will have the opportunity to learn the historical and current significance of the story of the Amistad, firsthand. The Amistad?s voyage will confront a dark history of slavery and human degradation, but will also promote the Amistad?s ongoing legacy of intercultural cooperation, human rights, and the struggle for freedom. The Amistad?s history lives on and its legacy has paved a path for progress towards equality in the United States and the world,? said Congressman John Larson. ?While nothing can restore justice to the individuals whose freedom was stolen by the horrors of slavery, and nothing can duly commemorate the struggles they endured, the launch of the Amistad on its Atlantic Freedom Tour provides a meaningful gesture to remember Connecticut?s role in our history and preserve the ship?s legacy of hope and freedom,? said Senator Chris Dodd. ?Her journey is a powerful reminder of our past, but it also serves as a symbol of hope that nations worldwide will embrace our common humanity.? ?The launch of the Freedom Schooner Amistad is an important tribute to the beginning of the end of the slave trade in the United States. I am proud to represent a state that so strongly valued human life and dignity at a time when external pressures steered away from those principles. I commend Amistad America for their ireless work and dedication to making this voyage a reality," said Senator Joseph Lieberman. ?The Freedom Schooner Amistad has made an outstanding impression on the communities the ship has visited along the Eastern seaboard,? said Congressman Chris Shays. ?Commemorating the fight against slavery and the freedom that was won, the Freedom schooner has been an educational ambassador teaching lessons of history, cooperation, and leadership.? ?This historic voyage will commemorate a tragic era in our history, but it is a part of our nation?s story that we can?t forget. It is so important for the students who take part in this 14-month tour to share this unique experience when they return so that the struggle for freedom fought by those on the original Amistad is honored,? said Congressman Chris Murphy. ?The Freedom Schooner Amistad?s 14-month 2007 Atlantic Freedom Tour will serve as recognition of the progress we as a nation have made in defending equality and social justice, but the voyage is also a reminder of how much farther the world must journey to value life and freedom. I honor the legacy of those who suffered through the brutal transatlantic slave trade and will continue to fight such prejudice and cruelty,? said Rep. Joe Courtney. Below is the text of the resolution: Recognizing the historical and educational significance of the Freedom Schooner Amistad?s 14-month 2007 Atlantic Freedom Tour, and expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that preserving the legacy of the Amistad story is important in promoting multi-cultural dialogue, education, and cooperation. Whereas the 1807 Act of the British Parliament was the first major initiative that abolished the slave trade and began the march to end slavery; Whereas, in 1839, 53 Africans were illegally kidnapped from Sierra Leone and sold into the transatlantic slave trade; Whereas the captives were brought to Havana, Cuba aboard the Portuguese vessel Tecora, where they were fraudulently classified as native-born Cuban slaves; Whereas the African captives were sold to Spaniards Jose Ruiz and Pedro Montez, who transferred them to the coastal cargo schooner, La Amistad; Whereas the African captives, while being transferred from Havana, Cuba up the coast in the Amistad, revolted after 3 days and ordered the schooner head east back to their native Africa; Whereas, on the evening of the rebellion, the Amistad was secretly directed back west and up the coast of North America, where after 2 months the Africans were seized and arrested in New London, Connecticut; Whereas, the captives were jailed and awaited trial in New Haven, Connecticut, and the case became historic when former President John Quincy Adams argued on behalf of the enslaved Africans before the United States Supreme Court and won their freedom; Whereas, in 2007, the Freedom Schooner Amistad will embark on its first transatlantic voyage to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the abolition of the transatlantic slave trade; and Whereas the Amistad case represents an opportunity to call to public attention the evils of slavery, the struggle for freedom, and the restoration of human dignity: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That? (1) the House of Representatives? (A) recognizes the historical and educational significance of the Freedom Schooner Amistad?s Atlantic Freedom Tour; and (B) encourages the people of the United States to learn about United States history and better understand the experiences that have shaped the United States; and (2) it is the sense of the House of Representatives that preserving the legacy of the Amistad should be regarded as a means in fostering multi-cultural dialogue, education, and cooperation. ###
06.27.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 27, 2007 LARSON ANNOUNCES GRANT FOR LOCAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENTGrant will provide a critical investment in training to address impending nursing shortage Washington, DC- Today Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) announced a $506,836 grant from the U.S. Department of Labor that was awarded to the Capital Workforce Partners for their Certified Nursing Assistants Advancement Initiative. They were one of six successful applicants to receive the grant out of a pool of 77 applicants. ?I am thrilled that the Capital Workforce Partners received this grant award,? said Congressman Larson. ?Their work is of the utmost importance as our community faces a critical nursing shortage. Through their work, it is my hope that they will be able to provide an educational pathway for many who hope to dedicate their lives to nursing.? The program is designed to address the Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) workforce challenges of skill development, retention, and advancement using proven training models. Currently, the Connecticut Department of Labor projects a 55 percent shortage of registered nurses, statewide by 2020. Yet, many Certified Nursing Assistants lack certain basic skills or face other barriers to advancement. The program coordinated through Capital Workforce Partners seeks to address this workforce shortage by creating training and educational opportunities for the Certified Nursing Assistants, helping them overcome skills shortfalls, and advance as registered nurses (RNs) and other allied health career professions. Through the grant, the Capital Workforce Partners will collaborate with the state government, local community colleges and high schools, and local not for profits to promote career development in the nursing and allied healthcare field. Congressman Larson?s office has an online Federal Grants assistance page to assist organizations and local communities search and apply for federal grants. For more information, please visit https://www.house.gov/larson/grants.htm. ###
06.20.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 20, 2007 REP. LARSON LAUDS WAYS AND MEANS PASSAGE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ENERGY CONSERVATION TAX ACT OF 2007Bill supporting new and responsible renewable energy policy, will directly impact CT, passes House Ways and Means Committee WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) joined his colleagues in praising bipartisan passage of the Renewable Energy and Conservation Tax Act of 2007 (HR 2776) by the House Ways and Means Committee today. Congressman Larson is an original sponsor of the bill. The bill provides for roughly $16 billion worth of tax incentives for the production and conservation of energy. The measure is entirely revenue neutral in accordance with House Democrats? pay-go-rules. ?The Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act of 2007 shows Democrat?s commitment to taking America in a new direction with its energy policy,? said Congressman Larson. As Connecticut is known as the fuel cell capitol of the world, Congressman Larson advocated for inclusion of fuel cell production tax credit to be included in renewable energy production tax incentives. Larson pushed for extension and strengthening of the of the fuel cell production tax credit. It gives fuel cell producers incentives to make fuel cells more readily available, affordable and efficient. ?This bill provides meaningful incentives for the production, purchase, and conservation of renewable energy. It shows Democrats? real commitment to finding ways to solve our nation?s addiction to oil by making renewable energy more attractive and cost effective long term.? In addition, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act of 2007 provides over $6 billion in state bonds for energy conservation and energy assistance. Connecticut will receive over $69 million in such bonds. ?The bonds provided in this bill will allow states and localities the flexibility to tailor and promote energy efficient policies that will meet their individual needs. The access to different sources of renewable energy and the needs of renewable energy varies by state and this bill gives them the flexibility to make their own determinations.? The bill is expected to be debated on the House floor before the Fourth of July recess. ###
06.20.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 20, 2007 REP. LARSON WINS MAJOR VICTORY FOR FUEL CELL RESEARCH IN ENERGY AND WATER APPROPRIATIONS BILLWynn/Larson amendment would provide $213 million for hydrogen and fuel cell research WASHINGTON- As the House concluded consideration of the Energy and Water Appropriations Bill (HR 2641) today, the House approved a hydrogen and fuel cell research and development amendment championed by Congressman Larson (CT-1) and Congressman Al Wynn (MD), two of the co-chairs to the bipartisan, House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus. The amendment would ensure that $213 million within the Department of Energy?s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) programs would be for hydrogen research and development. The amendment increased funding for the hydrogen technologies program by $18.4 million, matching the Department of Energy?s budget request for fiscal 2008. Also, in response to concerns raised in the bill that hydrogen and fuel cell technology will not be ready for the market until 2050, Larson defended the progress of the hydrogen and fuel cell industry. ?The urgency of the need to be energy independent tomorrow is today. Fuel cells are the energy source that can?t be postponed until tomorrow,? said Larson. There are numerous fuel cell products available on the market today. UTC Power in Connecticut provides power and drinking water for US space missions through fuel cells. Fuel cells also provide clean and highly efficient power for hospitals, research centers, police and first responder facilities, office buildings, and waste water treatment facilities. Recently Hartford launched a zero-emission quiet power public transportation bus, the first of its kind on the east coast. ?Fuel cells are a smart and pollution free technology. Hydrogen, the most abundant element in the universe, is the crux of fuel cells. We must remain committed to any research and development that will advance this technology, only then will it become more accessible and affordable.? The bill being considered in the House today is still pending final passage in the House which will be done in July. ###
06.15.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 15, 2007 REP. LARSON VOTES TO PROTECT AMERICA, INVEST IN OUR NATION?S HOMELAND SECURITYLegislation includes critical funding and accountability WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) voted to approve sweeping legislation to protect America and invest in homeland security. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill was approved today makes border security a top priority, provides additional border patrol agents for the country, provides first responders with additional training and equipment, improves aviation and port security, and includes strong accountability measures in order to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being well spent. ?Congress has a responsibility to help protect our communities from those who would do us harm,? said Congressman Larson. ?I am proud to support legislation that makes border security a top priority and gives our first responders the tools and resources they need to do their jobs in a time of crisis, including funding that directly impacts the Hartford area.? The 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill: Includes over $50 million for the Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS) of which will directly benefit Connecticut?s local first responder planning, training, and equipment. This funding is critical for the Hartford capital region?s ability to respond to major disasters and terrorist attacks. Includes funding for 3,000 additional Border Patrol agents, bringing the number of Border Patrol agents to 17,819. Rejects the President?s proposed $1 billion cut for training and equipment for First Responders and instead expands support for local law enforcement personnel, firefighters and other first responders. Invests in port security by significantly increasing funding to protect critical port facilities and infrastructure. Improves aviation security by providing funding for new explosive detection systems at airports and funding to double the amount of cargo screened on passenger aircraft. The legislation approved by the House today also includes strong oversight provisions to ensure the careful spending of taxpayers' dollars by the Department of Homeland Security and eliminates wasteful no-bid contracts. ?The American people expect their dollars to be well spent on important efforts to secure our nation, not wasted on no-bid contracts,? added Larson. ?The Democratic Congress has insisted on tough new accountability measures to ensure we protect our communities and spend taxpayers' dollars are well spent.? ###
06.15.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 15, 2007 LARSON HONORS COMMITMENT TO VETERANS, VOTES FOR HISTORICAL FUNDING FOR VETS PROGRAMSLarson votes to provide the largest single increase in the 77 year history of the Veterans Administration WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) supported House passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill (HR 2642). This bill provides money to fund Military Construction and the Veterans Affairs Administration. The bill provides the largest increase in funding for veterans health care in the VA's 77-year history. It also addresses a recent increase in veteran?s services and adds over 1,000 new claims processors to reduce the backlog of 400,000 benefits claims. It exceeds for the first time in its 21 year history the Independent Budget, and exceeds the President?s request by $3.8 billion. ?This bill sends a clear message to America?s servicemen and women, their families, and our veterans that a grateful nation deeply respects their service and sacrifice,? said Congressman Larson. With passage of this bill, the 110th Congress will have voted for historic increases in veterans? health care and benefits programs, totaling nearly $12 billion (including the joint resolution and the supplemental), to meet the needs of returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan and make up for the Bush Administration's past shortcomings in its treatment of veterans. ?There are over 250,000 veterans living in Connecticut and many more that will come home from Iraq and Afghanistan. They are our nation?s heroes and have served and protected our nation with pride and dignity. We must give them the care and respect worthy of their sacrifice and they deserve no less,? added Larson. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill: Significantly reduces the 400,000 claims backlog for veterans waiting for disability and other benefits by adding more claims processors. Supports critical maintenance of VA health care facilities. Makes five polytrauma centers and three Centers of Excellence for Mental Health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) fully-operational this year, to care for those returning Iraq vets. Supports the development and operation of a toll-free phone and web-based hotline for veterans to report on deficiencies in VA medical facilities and care. ###
06.07.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 7, 2007 REP. LARSON VOTES TO GIVE HOPE TO MILLIONS SUFFERING FROM CHRONIC DISEASES BY EXPANDING STEM CELL RESEARCH WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson voted in favor of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (S.5) that will give hope to millions of Americans suffering from chronic diseases by greatly expanding stem cell research. The House passed this critical bill this afternoon by a strong bipartisan vote of247 to 176. ?Democrats promised that they would offer Americans hope and take our country in a new direction. Today, Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle joined together to help put patients first, by passing the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. Embryonic stem cell research is promising and could provide new and better treatment and cures to many who are suffering with chronic diseases like diabetes, Multiple Sclerosis, Alzheimer?s, Parkinson?s and ALS. By our vote today we can give hope to over 100 million Americans suffering from these debilitating or life-threatening diseases. ?Each year, people impacted by such debilitating diseases come to Washington from around the country to advocate for stem cell research. Each year, many of my constituents from Connecticut come to my office sharing their hope for expanding federal funding for stem cell research. This important research could lead to a cure or treatment for a disease affecting them or their loved one. This issue is also a person one for me, as my own mother suffers from the chronic and debilitating illness of Multiple Sclerosis. It will be gratifying to tell those that visit my office to share their personal experiences and my own mother, that the 110th Congress has taken a serious step forward to expand this life-saving research. ?Over 70 percent of the American people support expanded stem cell research and I hope that this year the President will reconsider his veto threat and listen to the overwhelming voice of the American people and a bipartisan majority in this Congress and sign this bill.? This bill would expand the federal funding for embryonic stem cell research by lifting restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines that can be used for federally-funded research ? restrictions that were imposed by President Bush in 2001. Most of the stem cell lines authorized for federally-funded research under the President?s policy are now no longer useful for research. However, the bill only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. The bill also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. The bill is supported by more than 500 organizations, including the American Medical Association, AARP, Association of American Medical Colleges, and Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, as well as many faith-based groups. This stem cell research bill passed in the 109th Congress, but unfortunately was vetoed by President Bush in July 2006. In January, the House had passed a similar bill (H.R. 3) as part of the ?100 Hours Agenda.? The Senate then passed S. 5 in April. By passing the Senate-passed S. 5 today, the House is sending the bill directly to the President?s desk. ###
05.26.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 26, 2007 REP. LARSON JOINS SPEAKER PELOSI ON CONGRESSIONAL DELEGATION TO ADDRESS SOLUTIONS TO GLOBAL WARMING WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson announced that he is participating in a bipartisan Congressional Delegation trip to Greenland, Germany, Great Britain and Belgium to meet with leading scientists and political leaders working on solutions to combat global warming lead by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Earlier this year Larson was appointed by Pelosi to serve on the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. ?Global warming and energy dependence are probably two of the most important issues facing the future of our planet,? said Larson. ?This is a unique opportunity to see the global impacts of global warming and meet with global leaders that are addressing global warming in effective and innovative ways. This issue has been ignored for far too long and now it is time for serious solutions and action and I am proud to be a part.? Congress is drafting wide-ranging legislation on energy independence by July 4 and global warming later this year. Pelosi also created the Select Committee Energy Independence and Global Warming to promote greater understanding of the problem. The Congressional Delegation is made up of other members of the Select Committee, including Chairman Ed Markey of Massachusetts; Congresswoman Hilda Solis of California ; Congresswoman Stephanie Herseth-Sandlin of South Dakota; Congressman Earl Blumenauer of Oregon; and Congressman Emanuel Cleaver of Missouri. Congressman David Hobson of Ohio, Ranking member of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee is also traveling. The bipartisan delegation will be traveling to Greenland and is scheduled to meet with Dr. Konrad Steffen, who is the lead scientist at Swiss Camp located on the Jakobshavn Glacier. In Europe, the delegation is scheduled to meet with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, foreign and environmental ministers, members of parliament and leading environmentalists and scientists. Because of the significance of this trip, the air travel will be carbon offset through the Pacific Forest Trust - a forest conservation and stewardship project that will permanently reduce approximately 500,000 tons of CO2 emissions over a 100-year period. The Speaker will personally pay for this effort. ###
05.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 24, 2007 CT DELEGATION DEMANDS ACCOUNTABILITY ON IRAQ WASHINGTON, DC ? Members of the Connecticut Democratic Congressional Delegation, Reps. Rosa DeLauro, John Larson, Joe Courtney and Chris Murphy, released the following statement regarding their unified stance on today?s vote on the Iraq Supplemental: ?Today, we will vote the will of our constituents in Connecticut and the American people? voting against a measure that does not hold this Administration accountable for its failed policy in Iraq or set a new direction. We cannot in good conscience support a bill that keeps our troops in the middle of a bloody and chaotic civil war with no exit strategy and no timeline for redeploying our troops. ?The President?s aversion to accountability was clearly demonstrated when he vetoed a bill earlier this month that would have increased the pressure on the Iraqi government to meet benchmarks and would ultimately allow the safe and responsible redeployment of our troops. ?Without accountability we will continue to see more of the same ? more daily reports of death and destruction in Iraq, more instability and violence in the region, and no clear end to the war in sight. As such, we will demand legislation that includes consequences for the Iraqi government if they fail to gain control of the country, and a plan to redeploy and then bring our troops home. ?While the President continues to ignore the will of the American people, we will not. We join together to send a clear message to the President that we do not accept his unfettered demands to escalate the war without restraint. Americans demand accountability from the Administration, responsibility from the Iraqis and an exit strategy that ends this war.? ###
05.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 24, 2007 LARSON STATEMENT ON IRAQ SUPPLEMENTAL PASSAGE WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement following passage of the Iraq Supplemental. ?The President is out of touch with an overwhelming majority of the American people and the hundreds of people I have heard from at forums in my district in Connecticut. I could not in good faith continue to fund the President?s failed policy in Iraq -- more troops, more money, more time and more of the same. It is time to bring our troops home in a safe, strategic and responsible manner. ?In a separate bill, we passed much needed emergency funding for defense and veterans healthcare, Katrina and Gulf Coast recovery, children?s health care and a much needed raise in the minimum wage. Our nation?s veterans, children, victims of Katrina and those who haven?t received a raise in the minimum wage in ten years, could not afford to wait any longer. ?This debate over war funding is far from over. We will continue to fight for accountability and an end to this war through the summer as we consider the Department of Defense Authorization and Appropriations bills. There are only four months left in this fiscal year, so I look towards September when the President has to report back to Congress on the progress of Iraq to continue to hold his feet to the fire. I will fight this Administration?s failed policies in Iraq until we have a plan to bring our troops home.? ###
05.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 24, 2007 REPS. LARSON AND KING PROPOSE GREATER FIRE PROTECTION FOR NURSING HOMES WASHINGTON- Today, Rep. John B. Larson (D-CT-1) and Rep. Peter King (R-NY-03) re-introduced bipartisan legislation to improve fire safety in nursing facilities by encouraging universal installation of life automatic sprinklers within the next five years. The Nursing Home Fire Safety Act of 2007 would provide financial assistance for nursing facilities to install life-saving sprinkler systems while urging the Centers of Medicare and Medicare of Congress (CMS) to adopt fire safety standards, such as, those developed by the National Fire Protection Association in the 2006 Life Safety Code. The bill calls for CMS to require Medicare Program participants to be fully equipped with sprinklers. Both industry and government officials have cited cost as the greatest barrier to sprinkler protection in nursing facilities. The bill addresses that problem by providing low-income loans as well as a ?Sprinkler Retrofit Assistance Grant Program? grants to qualifying nursing homes for installation of sprinklers. It authorizes $450 million for loans and $100 million for grants over five years. Larson has pursued legislation to address this issue since 2003 when fires in nursing homes in Hartford, Conn. and Nashville, Tenn. that had no sprinklers killed 31 patients. ?When the care of a loved is entrusted in a nursing facility, you should be confident that they will be protected from fire dangers,? said Larson. ?It is alarming that between 20 to 30 percent of the 17,000 of nursing homes across the country still lack adequate fire sprinkler systems. This bill creates mechanisms for stronger fire safety standards, which are long overdue.? ?We must ensure that everything is done to protect our nursing homes,? King stated. ?By providing low interest loans and grants to install sprinkler systems and implement the latest safety standards, we are taking the steps necessary to prevent this senseless loss of life.? A 2004 report of the General Accountability Office concluded that ?the substantial loss of life in the Hartford and Nashville fires could have been reduced or eliminated by the presence of properly functioning automatic sprinkler systems.? The study also noted that no multiple-death fires had ever occurred in a long-term care facility that had fully automatic sprinklers. Underscoring the particular vulnerability of the elderly and sick population who reside in nursing homes, the GAO also concluded that, in general, federal oversight of fire safety standards was weak. CMS mandates only new and renovated nursing homes to install full sprinkler systems. CMS responded to the GAO report by requiring all other nursing homes to install battery-operated smoke alarms. ?The Hartford and Nashville fires demonstrated the terrible and unacceptable consequences of ignoring this issue,? Larson added. ?While Tennessee and Connecticut took steps to increase fire safety in nursing homes as a result of these tragic events, the federal government has only taken small steps to increase fire safety. Protecting nursing home residents from fire is a shared responsibility between the long term care industry and the federal government. The industry has demonstrated that it is ready to step up?but they cannot do it alone. It is time for Congress to take action to protect our most frail and vulnerable from the threat of fire ? and prevent these senseless tragedies in the future.? Connecticut and Tennessee both required that all nursing homes have full sprinkler protection in response to the fatal fires there. Connecticut extended its deadline for compliance after nursing homes said that financing difficulties made it difficult to make the improvements in time. ###
05.23.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 23, 2007 LARSON VOTES TO CRACK DOWN ON PRICE GOUGINGBill supported by Rep. Larson Passes House; takes important step to end price gouging WASHINGTON ? As Americans approach Memorial Day and the summer driving season, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) joined an overwhelming bipartisan majority in Congress and voted to approve new mechanisms to fight record high gas prices. On Tuesday and Wednesday, Larson voted for legislation to crack down on gas price gouging and OPEC state-controlled entities that conspire to limit the supply or fix the price of oil. Larson?s vote comes as families in Connecticut are paying an average of $3.27 a gallon for gasoline. This is more than a 116% spike from when President Bush took office in 2001. ?Families in Connecticut are feeling a serious pinch at the pump,? said Congressman Larson. ?I was proud to support legislation that will help crack down on price gouging and punish those who attempt to fix the price of oil. The American people have paid enough.? On Tuesday, the House approved H.R. 2264 to authorize the Justice Department to take legal action against OPEC state-controlled entities that participate in conspiracies to limit the supply, or fix the price, of oil. Nations or organizations that limit oil supply can artificially inflate the cost of gas and hurt American consumers. On Wednesday, the House approved The Federal Price Gouging Prevention Act, H.R. 1252, of which Congressman Larson is a co-sponsor, which would give the Federal Trade Commission the authority to investigate and punish companies that artificially inflate the price of gas. The bill sets criminal penalties for price gouging, and permits states to bring lawsuits against wholesalers or retailers who engage in such practices. While a bipartisan majority in Congress supports these bills, President Bush has threatened to veto both pieces of legislation. ?As the summer driving season approaches, too many families are being forced to choose between a bag of groceries and a gallon of gas,? Larson added. ?President Bush is wrong to oppose these bills and I urge him to join us in our efforts to bring down the cost of gasoline.? The high cost for families come as oil companies continue to prosper. The six largest oil companies announced $30 billion in profits for the first quarter of 2007. This is on top of the $125 billion in record profits they made in 2006. In addition to the legislation approved this week, in the first 100 Hours of the 110th Congress, the Democratic Congress has already voted to roll back $14 billion dollars in taxpayer subsidies for Big Oil companies and reinvest the money in clean, alternative fuels, renewable energy and energy efficiency. Democrats are also developing an Independence Day package to boldly address energy independence and global warming by rapidly expanding the production of clean, alternative fuels and increasing energy efficiency, which will help protect our environment and bring down the cost of fuel for American consumers. ###
05.22.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 22, 2007 LARSON STATEMENT ON REDUCED RYAN WHITE CARE ACT FUNDS IN CONNECTICUT WASHINGTON? Congressman John B. Larson issued the following statement regarding cuts to Ryan White CARE Act funds in Connecticut. Hartford saw a decrease in funding from $2,024,791 to $913,750. ?It is disheartening to know that Bush Administration has chosen to not heed the appeal of the Connecticut delegation for supplemental funding. Our communities rely on this funding to provide critical services to those living with HIV/AIDS. The drastic nature of this cut will have a devastating impact on the services, housing, access to primary medical care and life-saving medications for hundreds. ?I am very disappointed that the Administration has chosen not to work together with us to solve this critical issue. Their obstinacy will impact the lives of thousands of people in Connecticut living with HIV/AIDS. The Connecticut delegation is committed to continue working for additional funding because those living with HIV/AIDS can?t afford to wait.? Earlier this year, Connecticut?s Congressional delegation sent a letter to Michael Leavitt, Secretary of Health and Human Services, and Elizabeth Duke, Health Resources and Services Administrator requesting they give Connecticut priority when allocating supplemental funding for HIV/AIDS care. The letters also requested an explanation of how the Ryan White Title I funding formula was determined. ###
05.17.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 17, 2007 HOUSE PASSED DEFENSE BILL BENEFITS CONNECTICUT, FIRST DISTRICTHouse Passes Defense Authorization Bill with Strong Support for CT Defense Industry WASHINGTON- Today Congressman John B. Larson voted in favor of the Department of Defense Authorization bill (H.R. 1585) for Fiscal Year 2008 which passed the House this afternoon. The bill makes a commitment to strengthen our military and strained National Guard, fight the real war on terror in Afghanistan, and support our troops on the ground and when they return home. ?While I have been a steadfast opponent of this war from the outset, our men and women in combat deserve our full support,? said Larson. ?Everyday we are working to bring this war to an end. Although the President has let his hubris and arrogance get in the way of protecting our men and women in Iraq, we will not leave our troops in the battlefield go without the equipment and protection that they need. We also address our strained National Guard, give our men and women in uniform a much deserved pay raise, ensure that they receive first rate healthcare. We also require accountability on the conduct of the Iraq war and strengthen our focus on the real war on terror in Afghanistan.? Overall, the bill provides over $503.8 billion in funding, which includes $141.8 billion in funding for the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. It also provides funds to address our military readiness, which includes the establishment of a strategic readiness fund; builds up the strained National Guard and Reserve; provides much needed military equipment and training for our troops; improves protection our troops on the ground; gives the military a much deserved pay raise; and upgrades our military healthcare system. The bill also fully supports the goals of the National Nuclear Security Administration?s non-proliferation programs and the Cooperative Threat Reduction Program, both of which are consistent with the 9-11 Commission recommendations. ?Connecticut plays a vital role in our nation?s defense, providing not only the men and women who serve in the armed forces, but the equipment to fight with and bring them safely home. These programs are important to both the safety of our troops and Connecticut?s economy,? added Larson. The Department of Defense Authorization bill includes the following projects that are important to Connecticut and the first district: $29.4 million for 42 F-16 engine upgrades $8.0 million for Universal Control $770.8 million for 52 H-60 Blackhawk Helicopters $511.5 million for 21 MH-60S Knight Hawk Helicopters $1.05 billion for 33 MH-60R Sea Hawk Helicopters $3.2 billion for 20 F-22 Raptors, including $1.9 billion for continued research and development $2.4 billion for 12 F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, including $3.5 billion for additional research and development $2.7 billion for the C-17 Globemasters $13.6 billion in military construction for a CT Army National Guard Readiness Center in Niantic $2.65 billion for one Virginia class submarine in 2008, $702.7 million for advanced procurement of another in 2009 and $224 million in further research and development $588 million to procure the initial components for an additional Virginia-class sub, which enables Congress to increase submarine production to 2 per year prior to the Navy?s projection in 2012. The bill passed today in the House must now go to the Senate for approval and must be signed by the President. ###
05.16.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 16, 2007 Reps. Larson and SLAUGHTER INTRODUCE Legislation to Curb Rising Gas PricesBill Will End Zone-Pricing by Opening the Retail Gasoline Market to Real Competition; Also send letter to GAO to requesting further unbiased investigation into zone pricing WASHINGTON, DC ? Rep. John Larson (D-CT-1), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, joined Rep. Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY-28), Chairwoman of the House Rules Committee, to introduce the Eliminate Gas Price Discrimination Act, which grants gas station owners the ability to shop around for the cheapest wholesaler of their brand of gasoline. This flexibility would allow them to pass the savings on to the consumer. ?People across America are feeling the pinch at the pump as the price of gas has gotten out of control?in Connecticut a gallon of gas is upwards of $3.15 a gallon,? said Rep. Larson. ?Working families should not have to choose between a bag of groceries and a gallon of gas when oil companies are making record profits. We can?t address outrageous gas prices without addressing the manipulative way in which oil companies set their prices. Congress must put an end to zone pricing, a regressive practice that helps big oil companies not consumers. Dealers should be free to shop around for the lowest costing supply?savings that would be passed on to the consumer.? ?We?ve got a situation where American workers are having to pay more and more at the pump at the same time that the world?s biggest oil companies are making record profits,? Rep. Slaughter said. ?It?s bad enough to shrug our shoulders when average people pay for increases in gas prices caused by situations they have no control over, but to just sit back and watch rich companies profit from market manipulation is just wrong. Congress must step in to end zone pricing to help ease the burden of costly gasoline ? a burden that is sometimes unbearable for our working families.? As a result of recent action taken in the Connecticut General Assembly, Reps. Larson and Slaughter sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office requesting an unbiased investigation into zone pricing and the role of the Federal Trade Commission. A recent zone pricing study by an outside organization has painted a clouded picture of the situation. BACKGROUND: Zone-pricing hinges on the power of oil companies to control purchases by the gasoline dealers. In gasoline dealers (or retailers) franchise agreements, the oil companies will include a sole source provision stipulating that the retailer must buy from a specific branded wholesaler. That wholesaler, in turn, sells gasoline at a specific price for different mapped out zones. Zone-pricing falls under antitrust jurisdiction ? not price gouging. Unfortunately, several courts have found that zone pricing does not break antitrust laws because the zone prices are not static, but constantly changing. In 1978, Congress recognized that gasoline retailers were in a weak bargaining position with major oil companies over the terms of their franchise agreements. Consequently, they passed the Petroleum Marketing Prices Act (PMPA) to provide national standards for gasoline franchise agreements regarding the termination and non-renewal of those agreements. But while recognizing that retailers were in a weak bargaining position with oil companies, Congress failed to provide specific protection against unfair franchise provisions. The Eliminate Gas Price Discrimination Act will end zone-pricing by amending the PMPA to prohibit sole-source provisions in gasoline dealer franchise agreements. The bill simply opens up the retail gasoline market to real competition. Under the Eliminate Gas Price Discrimination Act, gas station owners will still have to purchase gas from one of their brand?s wholesalers ? but they will be free to shop around for the cheapest wholesaler of that brand, allowing them to pass the savings on to the consumer. An open retail gasoline market will allow for true competition and lower the price of gasoline for our constituents. ###
05.15.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 15, 2007 HOUSE PASSES LARSON BILL TO RECOGNIZE NATIONAL EOSINOPHIL AWARENESS WEEK WASHINGTON- Today, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 296, a resolution sponsored by Rep. John B. Larson (CT-01) recognizing National Eosinophil (ee-oh-sin-oh-fil) Awareness Week, which is reserved the third week of May. ?There are over 50,000 people in the United States living with eosinophilic disorders and their diagnosis profoundly affects their quality of life,? said Congressman Larson. ?This resolution also recognizes the tireless crusade of thousands of parents whose children have eosinophilic disorders, deal with the consequences of that everyday, and who are dedicated to finding a cure.? An eosinophil disorder is thought to be both an allergic and autoimmune disease which results when the body produces eosinophils?white blood cells most commonly associated with allergies--in above normal amounts. As a result, the body?s immune system mistakes common food proteins and environmental allergens as foreign bodies and works to fight them--essentially causing the body to attack its own tissue. Eosinophilic disorders profoundly affect the quality of life of those who suffer from them. Patients must eat severely restricted diets and some are unable to eat any food at all, surviving by being fed an amino acid based formula directly into their stomach through a feeding tube. Patients can experience a range of symptoms from nausea or vomiting to gastro paresis, inflamed blood vessels and malnutrition. Some patients with eosinophilic disorders have severe long-term disabilities. Others suffer from inflammation of vital organs such as the heart, lungs, kidney and gastrointestinal tract, which can be life threatening. Eosinophilic disorders are chronic in nature, have no cure and can be fatal. ?We must raise the awareness and research of eosinophilic disorders to ensure that patients suffering from it can get proper treatment and lead healthy lives. I applaud the American Partnership for Eosinophilic Disorders for doing a great job at promoting education and awareness of this issue and providing a resources for those suffering from it,? added Larson. ###
05.15.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 15, 2007 LARSON SUPPORTS HOUSE BILL TO PROVIDE OVER 175 POLICE OFFICERS FOR 1ST DISTRICT OF CTHouse passes COPS bill to put 50,000 more police officers on our nation?s streets WASHINGTON- Today, legislation supported by Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) to put 50,000 more police officers on our nation?s streets?including an estimated 178 new cops to fight crime and terrorism in Connecticut?s 1st district?passed the United States House of Representatives. The legislation comes as a violent crime is on the rise nationwide, according to a recent law enforcement association study and new FBI statistics. ?While the Bush Administration in recent years has abandoned the successful C.O.P.S. program, crime has risen steadily across our nation,? said Congressman Larson. ?In recent years we have seen the rise in youth violence on the streets of Hartford. It is my hope with the flow of new police officers, school resource officers and other grant money that the 1st District would receive we will be able to curb the rise in violent crime in Connecticut.? The C.O.P.S. hiring program has been one of the most successful law enforcement programs in the nation?s history. To date, the program has put over 416 additional police officers in Connecticut?s 1st Congressional district since 1994. Funded at over $1 billion a year near the end of the Clinton administration, the hiring portion of C.O.P.S. has been zeroed out under President Bush. The C.O.P.S. Improvement Act passed today by the House of Representatives will breathe new life into the C.O.P.S. program nationwide and in the 1st district of Connecticut: 416: The number of additional police officers that have been hired in the 1st district of Connecticut since 1994. 178: The projected number of additional police officers that will be put on the beat as a result of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act. $26,683,851: The amount of money that has been invested in the 1st District of Connecticut since 1994 through the C.O.P.S Improvement Act. $8,140,836: The amount of money projected to flow into the 1st district of Connecticut as a result of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act. 26: The number of additional school resource officers that have been hired for the 1st district of Connecticut. 11: The number of additional school resources officers that would be likely put in the 1st district of Connecticut as a result of the C.O.P.S. Improvement Act. ?Democrats want to ensure that our local law enforcement agencies have the tools they need to make our communities safer,? added Larson. ?This is step in the right direction, putting more cops on our streets and reinvesting in a program that has proven its worth and we know works.? Created in 1994 in an effort to put more police officers on the street, the C.O.P.S. Program has been enormously successful. Nationally, C.O.P.S. has provided over $9 billion to hire over 117,000 police officers. According to a General Accounting Office (GAO) study, between 1998 and 2000, C.O.P.S. grants were responsible for reducing crimes by about 200,000 to 225,000?one third of which were violent. This legislation has the backing of the International Association of Chiefs of Policy, the National Sheriff?s Association, the National Association of Police Organizations, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, and the National League of Cities. ###
05.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 11, 2007 No More Blank Checks Mr. PresidentHouse passes Iraq Accountability Act, funds troops requires accountability WASHINGTON- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, issued the following statement tonight upon passage of the Iraq Accountability Act in the House of Representatives. ?Tonight we gave the President a chance to meet Congress halfway and heed the will of the American people. Congress passed the Iraq Accountability Act, a bill that will fully fund our troops, fulfills our commitment to our veterans and requires there to be progress in Iraq. Meanwhile, Vice President Cheney was trying to convince the Iraqi government not to take a summer vacation while our troops are fighting for their stability. The Iraqi people must step up and take control of their own country. ?I have believed for some time that it is imperative that we begin the safe, strategic and secure withdrawal of our troops in Iraq. The Iraq Accountability Act that we passed tonight brings us one step closer to that. No longer will we write a blank check for the war in Iraq without requiring accountability from the President and the Iraqi people. It maintains our commitment to our men and women in Iraq right now who have been deployed, redeployed and deployed again and also clearly demands responsibility from the President and the Iraqis. ?With Mother?s Day this weekend, thousands of mothers across the country will spend their day worrying about their children that are serving in Iraq. Mothers like Carol Tripp of Bristol, Connecticut whose three sons and husband are stationed overseas and who hasn?t had her entire family together since 2001. It is for these mothers that we are stood our ground with the President tonight. ?We have tried to meet the President halfway, but his obstinacy and hubris has clouded his better judgment. The President wants a blank check and no accountability and we cannot in good conscience grant him that. It is time for a change of course in Iraq. The era of endless spending without oversight blank checks and no accountability is over Mr. President.? ###
05.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 10, 2007 LARSON: Democrats committed to real solutions to energy crisis and rising gas pricesAs gas prices continue to rise, Democrats committed to responsible energy policy to ease pain at the pump WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today as gas prices nationwide hit a nationwide high this week. Across the country, the average price for regular gasoline has surged to $2.87 per gallon ? climbing 50 cents over the past two months. Some experts are predicting that gas prices could escalate to $4 per gallon. Earlier this month, Exxon Mobil announced that its first quarter profits increased by 10 percent, even after a year when it made $39 billion---the most profits ever for any company. ConocoPhillips also saw their profits climb nearly 8 percent in the first quarter ? showing that oil companies continue to bring in huge profits while gas prices continue to rise. Last year, the six Big Oil companies made a record $125 billion while consumers footed the bill. ?Gas prices are out of control. Today, in Connecticut drivers are paying some of the highest gas prices in the nation---upwards of $3.15 a gallon?a whopping 107 percent more than when President Bush took office in 2001. For six years President Bush and the complicit Republican Congress failed to enact a comprehensive energy strategy that would help stabilize the cost of gas and make America more energy independent. The bad decisions of the past six years have forced millions of families to choose between a bag of groceries and filling up their gas tanks. ?Democrats are offering real solutions to this crisis. In the first 100 hours we passed the CLEAN Energy Act of 2007, to repeal $14 billion in subsidies and tax breaks for Big Oil companies in order to invest in clean renewable energy and alternative fuels and energy efficiency. Cutting subsidies to an industry raking in huge profits to invest in clean, alternative energy is just common sense. This is just the beginning of a comprehensive effort to reduce our dependency on foreign oil, ensuring that energy will be more affordable for America?s families in the future and that America?s families are not at the whim of overseas oil cartels. ?By July 4th, the House will begin working on the first part of our plan to end our addiction to foreign oil and address climate change. Democrats are committed to investing in the development of clean, sustainable energy alternatives including America?s vast renewable resources. We will also be working to provide relief for consumers while bringing down gas prices by ensuring that oil companies aren?t unfairly gouging consumers.? ###
05.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 4, 2007 REP. LARSON REAFFIRMS REVOKING PRESIDENT?S AUTHORITY TO WAGE WAR WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) issued the following statement regarding legislation introduced by Senator Hillary Rodham-Clinton and Senator Robert Byrd yesterday that would revoke the President?s authority to wage war: ?I am pleased that my colleagues in the Senate have raised the issue of revoking President Bush?s authority to wage war. The President callously and carelessly entered this war. Clearly, things have gotten worse and not better. We cannot afford to have a President that continues to abuse his authority and not listen to the Congress or the will of the American people. Taking this action would be another important step to keep the pressure on the President. Congress also needs to look to address the Congressional War Powers Act to ensure that this kind of an abuse of power never occurs again. In March, I introduced similar legislation in the House and hope that we can work together to take this critical step that can aid in ending this war.? ###
05.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 3, 2007 Larson Statement on Passage of Hate Crimes bill WASHINGTON- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) issued the following statement regarding House passage of the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007. ?In passing this bill, we made a bold statement against the use of violence as a vehicle of hate. This morning we heard the profound words of Judy Shepard, mother of Matthew Shepard who was killed in a ruthless act of hate almost ten years ago. In her painful recollection of her son?s killing, she reminded our caucus that this is a matter of conscience, one of protecting the rights and dignity of all human beings. ?It is a tragedy that such terrible injustices and hate motivated violence continue to occur in our society in this day and age. Such hate crimes are antithetic to the principles upon which our nation was founded and should be prosecuted as such. It is the duty of Congress to protect the civil rights of all Americans regardless of their race, faith, ability, sexual orientation or anything else that makes them different. We are one nation under God and there is no place for hate in America. This bill brings us one step closer to preventing and prosecuting acts of aggression motivated by hate and ignorance and embracing the diversity of our nation.? ###
05.03.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 3, 2007 CT Delegation ENCOURAGED After Meeting with Social Security Commissioner Regarding Bristol Social Security OfficeCommissioner Astrue announces short term commitment to keep Bristol office open WASHINGTON- Today, Members and staff of the Connecticut Congressional delegation met with Social Security Commissioner Michael Astrue regarding the future of the Bristol Social Security office. Commissioner Astrue announced a short term commitment to keep the Bristol Social Security office open pending continued funding. The delegation issued the following joint statement after today?s meeting: ?We are very pleased by the dialogue with Commissioner Astrue and his commitment to keep the Bristol Social Security office open in the near term. The delegation lobbied to keep the facility open while we go through the budget process. We are hopeful that with a new direction in Washington we will be able to secure funding to continue the operation of the Bristol office as its presence is critical to the surrounding communities. We will continue to work with Commissioner Astrue to achieve this goal.? ###
05.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 1, 2007 LARSON STATEMENT ON BUSH VETO OF IRAQ ACCOUNTABILITY ACT WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement recognizing the four year anniversary of President Bush?s ?Mission Accomplished? speech aboard the USS Abraham Lincoln and President Bush?s veto this afternoon of the Iraq Accountability Act. ?Four years ago today the President wrongly declared victory in Iraq. Four years later, thousands of lives lost, and billions of dollars spent, we still find ourselves in the midst of a quagmire in Iraq?and the situation is getting worse, not better. Yet, tonight, the President chose to veto the Iraq Accountability Act that would forge a new direction in Iraq, fund our troops at a greater level than the President requested, honor our commitment to our returning veterans, but most importantly start to bring our troops home in a safe and responsible way. ?This past November the American people sent us a strong message for change in Iraq. Unfortunately, through his veto President Bush has been derelict in his duty by allowing his own hubris and arrogance to trump the will of the American people. As long as this majority is in the House of Representatives, the President will not receive a blank check for a failed stay-the-course policy that sends our troops into harms way to police a sectarian civil war. It?s time for a new direction, not more of the same. Democrats stand ready to work with the President and Congressional Republicans to find common ground and create a new direction in Iraq.? Congressman Larson is currently serving his fifth term representing the 1st District of Connecticut. He is also Vice Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ###
05.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 1, 2007 CT Delegation Urges Bush Administration to Provide Federal Relief for Damage Caused by Devastating Nor'easter WASHINGTON ? Connecticut?s Congressional delegation urged the Bush Administration to provide federal relief funds to help repair damage caused by the devastating nor?easter that hit the region last month. In a letter to President Bush and Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) Director Arthur Cleaves, the delegation calls on the administration to grant the state?s request for federal assistance. ?The State of Connecticut?s preliminary damage assessment demonstrates statewide flooding resulted in damage to over 2,406 residential units and more than 179 businesses,? the letter said. ?Private sector losses are estimated at $31,215,550 and public sector damages are estimated at $11,978,231. These preliminary damage assessments confirm major impacts to residents, businesses, and State and local government units.? The full text of the letter is below. May 1, 2007 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Through: Mr. Arthur Cleaves Regional Director - FEMA Region I U.S. Department of Homeland Security 99 High Street, 6th Floor Boston, MA 02110-2320 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to voice our strong support for Connecticut Governor M. Jodi Rell?s April 30, 2007 request that you declare a major disaster for the State of Connecticut as a result of a major nor?easter which produced heavy rain, frozen precipitation, high winds, and coastal, riverine and urban flooding beginning on April 15, 2007. On the morning of Sunday, April 15, 2007, a major nor?easter engulfed the State of Connecticut causing flooding along the Farmington, Housatonic and Connecticut rivers for several days. Flood warnings were cancelled on the Farmington River on April 20, 2007 and on the Housatonic River on April 21, 2007. Flood warnings continued for the Connecticut River until Friday, April 27, 2007 - twelve (12) days after the storm. On April 15, 2007, Governor Rell took all necessary steps under state law when she executed the State Emergency Plan, and ordered activation of the State Emergency Operations Center. Governor Rell urged all motorists to avoid driving on the morning of April 16, 2007 due to widespread flooding. In addition, on April 17, 2007 Governor Rell directed the State Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security to solicit damage reports from State and local officials. Finally, on April 18, 2007 Governor Rell requested a Federal/State preliminary damage assessment (PDA) pursuant to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) regulations. The State of Connecticut?s preliminary damage assessment demonstrates statewide flooding resulted in damage to over 2,406 residential units and more than 179 businesses. Private sector losses are estimated at $31,215,550 and public sector damages are estimated at $11,978,231. These preliminary damage assessments confirm major impacts to residents, businesses, and State and local government units. Governor Rell has determined that the April 15, 2007 major nor?easter is of such severity and magnitude that the financial costs exceed the State of Connecticut and affected local governments capabilities. Supplementary federal assistance is necessary to ensure continued appropriate cleanup and repair operations, and to ensure public safety. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. Sections 5121-5206 (Stafford Act), we strongly urge immediate and favorable consideration of Governor Rell?s request for the following federal assistance: (1) Public Assistance for Fairfield, Litchfield, Hartford, and New Haven counties; (2) Individual Assistance which includes Individuals and Households Program, Disaster Unemployment Assistance, Small Business Administration disaster loans, and Farm Service Agency loans for Fairfield, Litchfield, Hartford, New Haven, and Middlesex counties; and (3) that the Hazard Mitigation Program be made available statewide. We thank you in advance for your consideration of this matter. Sincerely, Christopher J. Dodd United States Senator Joseph I. Lieberman United States Senator John B. Larson Member of Congress Joseph Courtney Member of Congress Rosa L. DeLauro Member of Congress Christopher Shays Member of Congress Christopher Murphy Member of Congress ###
04.25.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 25, 2007 Rep. LARSON: Bush?s hubris and arrogance stand in the way of doing the right thing WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement regarding House consideration of the Iraq Supplemental bill. House Democrats are expected to vote on the conference report later today: ?Last November, the American public voted for a new direction in Iraq. They sent the country a strong message of change and hope. Today, in passing this Iraq supplemental bill in the House, we will act out the will of the American people and put it on the desk of the President. It is up to the President whether he will heed their will and sign it. It will only be his hubris and arrogance that stand in the way of doing the right thing for our troops, our veterans, and the American people.? Congressman John B. Larson is currently in his fourth term serving the first district of Connecticut. He is also Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. ###
04.24.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 24, 2007 REP. LARSON: Innovation Agenda to Keep America Competitive in a Changing World WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement regarding Democrats? Innovation Agenda that is being considered on the House floor this week. The House will consider legislation that addresses crucial innovation and competitiveness issues for our country. Those measures will increase the number of highly qualified math and science teachers in K-12 (H.R. 362), support young researchers to foster the most innovative scientific research (H.R. 363), and make capital more accessible for small businesses, which are catalysts for technological innovation (H.R. 1332): ?The realities of globalization require that we sufficiently invest in our workforce to ensure our competitiveness in a changing world. To meet the challenges of today, and to create the jobs and economic security of tomorrow, we must act now. As globalization is our new reality, we need to give Americans a new deal and our innovation agenda is that commitment. The Democrats? Innovation Agenda will assert our global leadership, create new business ventures and jobs, and give future generations their own opportunity to achieve the American Dream. ?This effort began nearly two years ago, under the outstanding leadership of Speaker Pelosi, outside of Washington with leaders and CEOs from many fields: academia, venture capital, and entrepreneurs from the high-tech, biotech, and telecommunications sectors who are creating the jobs of tomorrow. This agenda involves partnerships with the private sector to invest in a workforce ready to compete in this new global marketplace. It will create a new generation of innovators; invest in federal research and development; spur affordable access to broadband; achieve energy independence; and provide small businesses with tools to encourage entrepreneurial innovation. ?This week the House will consider three bipartisan measures, representing the first legislative step in the 110th Congress to move our nation forward with this critical innovation plan for the U.S. economy. The Senate is also moving forward on these issues, and President Bush has indicated his support for innovation and competitiveness issues. Working together, we hope to make concrete and long overdue progress on this critical Innovation Agenda and work to ensure America?s continued competitiveness in this changing world.? ###
04.19.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 19, 2007 Larson: OUR NATION?S Tax policy should reflect our priority to clean up the environment WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John Larson released the following statement after the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures hearing on energy tax incentives. The Subcommittee heard from various representatives in the alternative energy industry, ranging from fuel cell, wind, solar, clean coal, biomass, and geothermal energy. ?As we begin to tackle the issue of global warming and climate change, it is critical that our nation?s tax policy reflects our priority to clean up the environment. We must address global warming by limiting carbon dioxide emissions and other harmful pollutants. As such, we must encourage that by creating certain tax incentives to support or enhance alternative and renewable energy sources and carbon reduction. ?In my district and throughout Connecticut, we have successfully expanded the use of fuel cell technology. Yet, the fuel cell tax credit is set to expire, at a time when we should be encouraging the development of alternative energy. Beyond that, we should consider the possibility of a carbon tax and cap and trade that could revolutionize the production of cleaner energy production. Expansion of such revenue raising measures and tax credits can and will incentivize use of cleaner energy. They are critical to the future health of our nation and our planet. ?This is more than ?greening? our planet. Global warming and our energy dependence risk our economic security, our national security, and threaten our environment and public health.? When Larson mentioned the possibility of a phased in carbon tax all of the panelists were in agreement that it could be effective in limiting negative carbon emissions and should be taken into consideration as the debate in the energy tax incentives moves forward. ###Larson is Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. He is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee and also a member of the Select Committee on Global Warming and Energy Independence.
04.17.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 17, 2007 Larson: ON TAX DAY Congress on the Side of AMERICA?S TaxpayersLarson praises House passage of Taxpayer Protection Act WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement praising passage of the Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007 (H.R. 1677), which passed the U.S. House of Representatives. The Taxpayer Protection Act will help both individual taxpayers and small businesses. It will increase outreach on various tax credits and provide taxpayers with stronger protections from identity theft and tax fraud. ?Today, we took step in the right direction and passed a bipartisan bill that will help protect America?s taxpayers by addressing the issues of identity theft and tax fraud. With over $10 billion in unclaimed tax credits, this bill would also increase outreach for credits like the Earned Income Tax Credit, of which thousands in Connecticut are eligible but do not claim. Today?s bill is a first step to ensure that America?s taxpayers aren?t taken advantage of and get all of the money back from the government that they deserve. With the complexity of our tax code at an all time high and a tax gap that has grown to over $290 billion, Democrats remain committed to simplifying the tax code and ensuring that it works for all working families. The Democratic Budget also provides for a long term fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax that would provide a tax cut for millions of American middle class families.? The Taxpayer Protection Act requires the IRS to notify a taxpayer that there may have been unauthorized use of the taxpayer?s identity; it cracks down on misleading websites that seek to get personal information by imitating the IRS (ie-irs.com, irs.net); It would simplify tax filing requirements for businesses owned jointly by husbands and wives; It would also strengthen IRS outreach to make sure that people know that they are entitled to tax refunds or to payments under the Earned Income Tax Credit; and also increases taxpayer protections from "predatory" providers of refund anticipation loans. ###
04.17.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 17, 2007 LARSON PARTICIPATES IN FIRST HEARING OF SELECT COMMITTEE ON ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND GLOBAL WARMINGHearing addresses national security implications of global warming, oil dependence WASHINGTON ? Responding to the growing concern over the geopolitical and national security concerns from the potential severe impacts of global warming, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), participated in the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming first hearing today. The hearing is the beginning of a conversation to address these challenges. Below is Congressman Larson?s opening statement as prepared for delivery: ?I would like to thank Chairman Markey and Ranking Member Sensenbrenner for organizing today?s hearing?the first hearing of the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. On the inauguration of the first hearing, I also feel it is appropriate to recognize and thank Speaker Pelosi. Made possible through her leadership and vision, this Committee has been tasked with addressing one of the most, if not the most challenging issues facing our nation and the world. ?How appropriate that this, the Committee?s first hearing is examining how our country?s addiction to oil impacts our foreign policy and national security. More than 200 years ago, President George Washington first warned the nation about the dangers of foreign entanglements. Never have the first President?s words resonated so clearly then in our current dependence on foreign oil. America?s addiction to oil holds us hostage to foreign countries, many of which are anti-American and anti-democracy. Moreover, our oil addiction and oil consumption have contributed to global warming?a brewing storm, that if we do not address soon will have even a greater role in our foreign policy and national security. ?This crisis demands a focused and comprehensive answer. Rather than looking abroad, I believe simple solutions can be found in our backyard, from South Windsor, Connecticut to Sioux Falls, South Dakota. For example, UTC Power in South Windsor is a world leader in developing and producing fuel cells, a viable alternative energy. Through this type of American innovation, we can grow the economy, protect the environment, and refocus our foreign policy and national security priorities. ?I want to thank the witnesses for appearing before us today. I look forward to hearing your testimony on U.S. dependency on foreign oil and welcome working with the Committee in recommending policies that support viable energy alternatives to this Congress.? ###Congressman Larson is also Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. He is one of nine Democrats appointed by Speaker Pelosi after she formed the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming to increase the visibility and priority given to America?s oil dependence and global warming challenges.
04.13.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 13, 2007 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION REQUESTS SUPPLEMENTAL HIV/AIDS FUNDING FOR CONNECTICUT CITIESDelegation seeks answers on distribution of Ryan White funding WASHINGTON ? Connecticut?s Congressional delegation today sent a letter to Connecticut Governor Jodi Rell expressing concern about the drastic cuts to Connecticut?s HIV/AIDS funding under the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006. This year, funding for Hartford and New Haven was drastically cut under the Ryan White Title I funding formula, potentially leaving thousands of people in Connecticut living with HIV/AIDS without the services they need. The letter also asks how the State of Connecticut plans to help mitigate the impact this loss of funding will have on the state?s residents. Hartford, New Haven, and the surrounding areas lost a combined total of $724,409 in Ryan White Title I funding, along with an additional loss of $864,014 to the state of Connecticut for HIV/AIDS services and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). Cuts in funding of this magnitude have already begun to create new and potentially significant barriers to HIV/AIDS care and treatment in Connecticut. Connecticut?s Congressional delegation recently wrote Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt and Health Resources and Services Administration Administrator Elizabeth Duke urging them to give Hartford and New Have priority in the supplemental grant-making process that is currently underway in light of the precipitous loss in formula funding experienced by these cities. The letter to Governor Rell urges the State of Connecticut to join Connecticut?s Congressional delegation in support of that effort. ?Thousands of Connecticut?s residents living with HIV/AIDS depend on federal assistance to maintain healthy and productive lives,? said Dodd. ?My colleagues from Connecticut and I have protested the decision to cut the Ryan White Title I grants, and I am hopeful that the Department of Health and Human Services will restore some of this critical funding with supplemental appropriations. Meanwhile, it is crucial that the State of Connecticut join us in this effort in order to help minimize the impact of this funding loss and protect individuals and their families who rely on Ryan White funding for critical health care and support services.? ?Many hospitals and clinics in Connecticut are already straining to provide services to those affected by HIV and AIDS,? Lieberman said. ?These funding losses for our state are making their jobs even harder and will keep necessary services from being provided to those suffering from this disease. While most of us are aware of the health hardships wrought by AIDS, we don't always recognize the huge financial strain it imposes as well. We ask Governor Rell to do everything in her power to help get this critical funding restored to help ease the burden on those in Hartford and New Haven who rely on expensive treatments to cope with this debilitating disease.? ?The loss of funds from the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Act for HIV/AIDS services is already being felt within the community and it is critical that we move quickly to prevent the further erosion of services. At the same time, we need to determine why the state?s HIV caseload numbers were under represented so we can prevent any additional loss of funds in the future and ensure we are not creating new impediments to HIV/AIDS care and treatment,? said DeLauro. "Serious concerns have been raised about the manner in which Ryan White funding has been figured in the state,? said Larson. ?Without question, the loss in funds already has and will continue to have a detrimental impact on the services provided to those living with HIV/AIDS in Connecticut. We urge Governor Rell to join us in appealing to the Administration for immediate supplemental funding and long-term solutions in ensuring care and services aren't disrupted.? ?I am deeply troubled about this $1.6 million loss in federal HIV/AIDS funding and the grave impact that it will have on health outcomes for individuals and families living with this disease,? said Courtney. ?I encourage Governor Rell to join the Congressional delegation in support of supplemental funding for these critical lifesaving programs.? ?Members of the Congressional delegation worked fervently last year to make sure that Connecticut received adequate funding to help those in need,? said Murphy. ?But it is obvious that something has gone wrong with the State?s calculations that have led to the current shortfall. I look forward to working with Governor Rell to rectify this problem, as it should not burden those who are living with HIV and AIDS.? The text of the letter is below: Dear Governor Rell, We write today with serious concerns about the recent loss of HIV/AIDS funding under the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006 of a combined $724,409 to Connecticut?s Transitional Grant Areas (TGAs), Hartford and New Haven, and the additional loss of $864,014 to the state of Connecticut for HIV/AIDS services and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP). A total loss of nearly $1.6 million in federal HIV/AIDS funding will have a devastating impact on Connecticut and the services provided to individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS. As a result of these funding cuts, services supported by Title I grants such as community-based outpatient medical and dental care, rehabilitative services, home health and hospice care, transportation and housing assistance, nutrition services, and respite care will be jeopardized. Already, over 65 positions have been lost, and food vouchers and food services providing assistance to more than 1,000 people with HIV/AIDS have been eliminated. A loss of funding of this magnitude will create new and significant barriers to HIV/AIDS care and treatment and will put successful health outcomes for people living with HIV/AIDS in jeopardy. It is our understanding that an explanation for these deep cuts rests with the decision made by the State of Connecticut to appeal to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to use HIV caseload numbers that underrepresented Connecticut?s actual HIV caseload. In light of this decision, what is the State of Connecticut?s plan to help mitigate the impact this loss of funding will have on our state?s residents? Additionally, we understand that the Bush Administration is currently making decisions about supplemental funding awards for cities under Title I of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006 for Fiscal Year 2007. Supplemental funding awards are expected to be announced at the end of April. We recently wrote the Administration in strong support of supplemental funding for Connecticut?s TGAs. It is our hope that the State of Connecticut will join us in that effort. In the interim, we look forward to learning of Connecticut?s plan to ensure that services for individuals living with HIV/AIDS are not disrupted. ###
04.04.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 4, 2007 Larson Works to Raise Earned Income Tax Credit Awareness HARTFORD- Today, U.S. Congressman John B. Larson visited the Volunteer Income Tax Clinic (VITA) at Mi Casa Community Center in Hartford and spoke with local residents about the Earned Income Tax Credit, a federal tax break designed to assist lower-income earners. Larson spoke to a crowd of Hartford residents, accompanied by: Mayor Eddie Perez, Jodonna Powell of the IRS, and Jorge Rivera, the Executive Director of Mi Casa Community Center. ?The Earned Income Tax Credit is an excellent resource for hard working families to get some well-deserved financial help from the Federal Government,? stated Larson. ?Last year, an estimated $6 million of potential EITC benefits went unclaimed by families living in Hartford. Too many working families are simply unaware of this benefit?a benefit they have earned.? The tax clinic at Mi Casa Community Center is run through the cooperative efforts of Mi Casa, the local non-profit Co-Opportunity, Inc. and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). At the Mi Casa VITA clinic and throughout Connecticut?s 1st District, certified tax preparers help individuals determine if they are eligible for the Earned Income Tax Credit. According to the IRS, the average dollar amount received from EITC recipients in Connecticut in 2003 was $1,590. In Hartford, the amount received was $1,890. ?The EITC money that families receive is money that can be well invested,? said Mayor Perez. ?Whether it is sued for education, mortgages, health care expenses, or supporting local merchants, it builds personal wealth and strengthens communities.? Congressman Larson is dedicated to helping hardworking individuals and families understand their rights and maximize their benefits when it comes to their taxes. Under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Rangel of the Ways and Means Committee, last week the Ways and Means Committee passed the ?Taxpayer Protection Act of 2007? which would increase IRS outreach to provide taxpayers with stronger protections against tax fraud and identity theft. It also includes a strengthened outreach program for the Earned Income Tax Credit in the future. ###
03.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 29, 2007 LARSON PRAISES PASSAGE OF DEMOCRATIC BUDGET WASHINGTON- This afternoon Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2008 budget resolution 216-210. The budget reaches balance in five years; champions children?s health care, education, and veteran?s health care; embraces tax relief for middle-income Americans; and matches the President on defense spending. ?After years of misplaced priorities, today we passed a budget that reflects the true priorities of this Congress and the American people while staying true to our commitment of fiscal responsibility--we want our children to be healthy and educated, our veterans to be respected and given the resources upon their return worthy of their great sacrifice, protect our nations security and ensure the true state of our environment is addressed. This budget supports programs that help more working families help themselves. It keeps our promises to our children, seniors, and veterans. ?For all too long the voice of the American people has not been heard in this Congress. Today, I am proud to say that the new Democratic-lead Congress is listening and we are delivering. We have brought a budget to the floor that begins to reverse six years of harmful cuts and reckless fiscal policy, and invests in our nation?s future.? ###
03.29.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 29, 2007 LARSON CONGRATULATES HARTFORD?S CONNIE NAPPIER FOR CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDALNappier and other original Tuskegee Airmen awarded nation?s highest civilian honor in Washington WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued the following statement honoring the Tuskegee Airmen who were awarded the Congressional Gold Medal today. Surviving Airmen were presented our nation?s highest civilian honor today in the Capitol Rotunda by President Bush, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and former Secretary of State Colin Powell. Two of Larson?s constituents were Tuskegee Airmen. Captain Lemuel Custis, was one of the thirteen original Airmen and sadly passed away in February 2005 at the age of 89. Flight Officer Connie Nappier, Jr. originally from Hartford was in Washington today to receive his award. Mr. Nappier now lives in New Britain and is father of Connecticut State Treasurer Denise Nappier. ?It brings me great pleasure to see the Tuskegee Airmen receive the Congressional Gold Medal---an award and credit that they have long deserved. In particular, it brings me great pride to see my constituent, former Airman Connie Nappier receive this overdue recognition. But it is with great sadness that Capitan Lemuel Custis, one of the original 13 Airmen, who passed away two years ago, is not able to receive this honor today. ?The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest honor the Congress can give to civilians and I can think of no better recipients than those who broke the racial barriers in the Armed Forces. The have left their positive footprint in history. Their brave service broke glass ceilings and paved the way for African American aviators in the military. As Captain Custis used to say ?they were fighting a war on two fronts. They were fighting the enemy in Europe and Africa and fought a Jim Crow society here at home.? These men were true heroes and patriots. They rose above the obstacles set by rampant discrimination and courageously defended our democracy. We honor them today and are grateful for their valiant contribution to our country.? The Tuskegee Airmen refers to all those who were involved in the ?Tuskegee Experiment,? the Air Corps program to train African Americans to fly and maintain combat aircraft during World War II. The Tuskegee Airmen included pilots, navigators, bombardiers, maintenance and support staff, instructors, and the personnel who kept the planes in the air during World War II. ###
03.28.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 28, 2007 Larson Statement on Passage of Wounded Warrior Assistance Act WASHINGTON- After the House of Representatives passed the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act of 2007 today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chairman of the Democratic Caucus released the following statement: ?As a nation, we were taken aback when recent media reports uncovered the grotesque realities within our military health care system. Clearly, our nation?s military healthcare system is understaffed and drowning in a backlog of cases and unable to provide our veterans with the benefits and resources they sacrificed a great deal to earn. In Connecticut alone, approximately 2,500 veterans are waiting for their benefits. ?On both sides of the aisle we agree that our nation?s veterans are a top priority. They have served and protected our nation with pride and dignity. We must give them the care and respect worthy of their sacrifice, and they deserve no less. ?The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act that passed in the House today is a step in the right direction to ensure that we take proper care of our nation?s veterans. This bill would improve the access to quality medical care for wounded veterans, begin to restore the integrity and efficiency of the military healthcare system, and provide for a study to improve the consistencies between the Department of Defense and the Veteran?s Administration disability evaluation systems. ?I applaud the leadership of Chairman Skelton and the honorable members of the House Armed Services Committee who crafted the legislation before us today. Congress has an obligation to be a watchdog for our veterans and ensure they receive appropriate care. These men and women have sacrificed their lives for our freedoms and they deserve the best health care and resources our country can provide.? ###
03.26.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 26, 2007 LARSON STATEMENT ON Interim Appointments of U.S. Attorneys WASHINGTON- Today Congressman John B. Larson, Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement regarding H.R. 580, a bill which will provide for a 120-day limit to the term of a United States attorney appointed on an interim basis by the Attorney General without being confirmed by the United States Senate. The bill is expected to be adopted on the suspension calendar later today. ?Based on the first hand accounts of several U.S. Attorneys, Attorney General Gonzales has abused his authority. Mr. Gonzales has on more than one occasion disregarded our constitution and the U.S. Congress. This bill is a step in the right direction, but the best direction would be for Gonzales to step down as Attorney General.? The bill restores the process for temporarily replacing U.S. attorneys to what it was previously. The Attorney General would be empowered to appoint someone to serve up to 120 days. If the Senate did not confirm a permanent replacement by then, the chief judge of the federal district would be able to appoint a temporary replacement to serve until the Senate acted. The bill also includes a provision to prevent the Administration from using the Vacancies Act to allow the Attorney General to make continuous interim appointments of U.S. Attorneys. ###
03.23.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 23, 2007 REP. LARSON: ?TODAY WE VOTED TO END THE WAR? WASHINGTON- In an effort to bring a conclusion to the Iraq war and bring our men and women home, today the House of Representatives passed the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans? Health and Iraq Accountability Act. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1), Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus, released the following statement praising the passage of the bill in the House. ?Today we voted to end to the war. More importantly, we honor the sacrifice of our brave troops and veterans and provide our military with much needed relief and end a failed policy of unilateralism and preemption. For all of the forums and discussions I have had in my district on the war, for all of the parents and loved ones who have called on behalf of their sons and daughters who are serving, the end is in sight. The American people have spoken and Congress has heard them and has provided a new direction in Iraq. ?No longer will the Congress surrender its judgment and give a blind allegiance to the failed policies of the Bush Administration. Let us join together and strategically redeploy our efforts to the forgotten front of Afghanistan. I commend the leadership of Speaker Pelosi and the American people who have been far in front of Congress on ending this Administration?s misguided efforts in Iraq.? ###
03.22.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 22, 2007 REP. LARSON: CONGRESS MUST ACT SOON ON AMTLarson?s district would be disproportionately impacted if Congress does not act WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) released the following statement after the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures held its second hearing on the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). The subcommittee heard stories from individuals from across the country who are impacted by the AMT. ?Today the subcommittee heard the real stories of people who are being burdened with the AMT. We are reminded of the consequences for millions of Americans if Congress does not act soon to address this situation. This was another step in the right direction to addressing the burdensome tax and providing tax relief for millions of hardworking American families. ?The people of Connecticut and the district that I represent stand to be among those most hurt by the AMT. Connecticut is an expensive state to live in. It?s citizens pay large amounts of state and local income and property taxes and the cost of living is high. Because of this, the AMT disproportionately affects Connecticut residents and will continue to do so if Congress does not act. ?Out of all of the members on the subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures, my district would have the most middle class taxpayers burdened by the AMT. In 2005, over 12,000 residents of my district were subject to the tax. If Congress does not act soon to fix the AMT the number of taxpayers ensnared in the tax would skyrocket to almost 83,000 in 2007. ?The AMT was created in 1969 when Congress discovered that 155 of our nation?s wealthiest citizens had paid no taxes at all. However, by 2010 it is predicted that almost all married couples earning between $75,000 and $100,000 will pay the AMT--- Instead, becoming more of a mass tax impacting millions of hard working families. I think we can all agree that these are not the same people that the AMT was originally intended to capture. ?These are increasingly uncertain times for hard working families. These are times when many Americans do not know if they will be able to afford their own retirement, college for their kids or their hospital bills if a member of their family becomes sick. Recently, I ran into a woman at Augie and Ray?s, a local blue collar hamburger and hotdog coffee shop in East Hartford who said to me ?I?m trying to deal with the future I thought I had ahead of me.? These are the people that we as Congress must have in mind as we tackle this difficult issue. ?It is long past time that we address the AMT. Hardworking citizens deserve a more reasonable tax system that is fair to all Americans and offers some certainty and predictability so that families can plan for their future. I am pleased that we are working toward that end.? ###
03.21.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 21, 2007 Congressman Larson testifies to Foreign AFFAIRS Committee on bill to address situation in IraqBill would address Bush policy of preemption and unilateralism and the Iraq war WASHINGTON- Today, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) testified in front of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs regarding H.R. 1292, a bill he introduced addressing the Bush policy of preemption and unilateralism and the Iraq war. The bill would repeal the use of force given to President Bush by Congress in 2002, calls for a new vote on the war on Iraq based on the current situation, and outlines a different foreign policy approach toward the Middle East that re-emphasizes the United States? long held priorities of diplomacy, deterrence, and containment (bill text attached). Other Members of Congress with Iraq related legislation will have a similar opportunity to testify in front of the committee on their respective bills. ?Rep. Larson provided thought-provoking testimony on his legislation concerning the most pressing foreign policy issue that America confronts today ? the conflict in Iraq,? said Congressman Tom Lantos, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. ?The legislation is thoughtful and serious. I appreciate this opportunity to hear from him, and the Committee will consider the legislation carefully.? A transcript of Congressman Larson?s remarks follow: ?Thank you very much Chairman Lantos and Ranking Member Ros-Lethinen, and the distinguished members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. There are a number of resolutions that are before this Committee. For so long in this Congress, American voices haven?t had the opportunity to be heard. I thank you for this opportunity and the consideration that you have granted Members of Congress who have so many constructive resolutions to put forward. I hope in the process of weighing the very important debate and dialogue that is going on that my proposal will be considered amongst those. ?Let me start by saying that this calls for, as the Chairman has pointed out, for the repeal of the provisions in the resolution that got us into the war in Iraq at its outset. How so? Well, we have to go back to the President?s historic speech at West Point. In that speech at West Point in June of 2002, the President outlined what has become the doctrine of the Bush Administration. This doctrine was new to this country. The doctrine was a doctrine of preemption and unilateralism. ?Oddly enough, the strongest critics of this doctrine that was inaugurated in June of 2002?the most outspoken critics of it, were Scowcroft, Eagleburger, Kissinger, and Baker, because they saw in this new doctrine the problematic concerns that would happen if one nation were to launch another preemptive strike. They understood far too well, as Bush the elder did, the need for us not to go into a conflict unilaterally but to go into a conflict with support. ?In the process, what the Administration did alarmingly, is undermine more than 50 years of foreign policy based on diplomacy, deterrence and containment, They also overturned Casper Weinberger?s Doctrine that the United States should never be involved in a military activity unless its vital interests are threatened and then to make sure that it had appropriate plans, including an exit strategy; and further then overturned?breathtakingly, the Powell Corollary, which says if the United States is to be involved that it go in and use overwhelming force to secure the safety of our troops, the borders and to be able to provide for an exit strategy. Therein is the problem that we are dealing with. ?This legislation seeks to revoke this. To provide the opportunity for us not to abandon the policies of a single President, but to re-embrace the policies of a Nation that established the Marshall Plan that provided us with diplomacy that created an environment where the United States enjoyed respect throughout the globe. Today, because of these policies we have undermined our standing in the world?throughout Europe and with most countries around the world, and we have devastated it with the Muslim world. ?We need a change of direction. We had virtually the entire world behind us when we went into Afghanistan and that has become the second front, and that is the second portion of this bill. To unite this Congress as we were as we stood on the steps on 9/11; what we needed to do in the war against terrorism was to actually go after the people who took down the Towers, who hit the Pentagon, and but for those brave souls on Flight 93 who would have hit the United States Capitol or the White House for sure. This legislation calls for us to go after and bring to justice Osama Bin Laden; to go after Al Qaeda; and to stop the Taliban that is re-grouping as we speak in Afghanistan. We need to stand united. And that is what I believe we need to accomplish. ?More importantly Mr. Chairman, thank you for bringing this opportunity to Members of Congress. There is a larger discussion that has to go on, in a theme that runs throughout everything that is brought forward in these resolutions: Congress needs a debate and discussion about where we are as a nation. Where we are in terms of whether or not we are still the republic that we pledged our allegiance to or if we?ve become an empire where we don?t quite understand our role in the world?a reluctant empire if you will, but an empire none the less. Therefore where is the proper authority with Congress as it relates to the War Powers Act, as it relates to the Constitution, and therefore the vital role that this Committee and this Congress should enjoy and share and assert its prerogatives. That?s why I have put forth this legislation and I ask for your consideration Mr. Chairman.? ###
03.16.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 16, 2007 Congressman John B. Larson Statement on 4th Anniversary of War in Iraq WASHINGTON- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) issued the following statement today on the 4th anniversary of the war in Iraq, which is on Monday March 19th. ?On Monday our nation enters the fourth year in Iraq. As we approach this anniversary, we should reflect and be grateful for those who have made the greatest sacrifices---our troops and their families. They have the greatest courage and patriotism and have made the greatest sacrifice. ?As we mark this anniversary, we must also reflect upon how we got into this irresponsible, war of choice that has cost our nation over 3,200 precious American lives, countless more Iraqis and wounded tens of thousands. This ill conceived war has cost our nation billions of dollars and has left a footprint on our budget that our children?s children will pay for. The President?s irresponsible policy of preemption and unilateralism has failed and has cost our nation?s standing in the world. ?We must bring this war to an end. The American people are far ahead of the Congress on this issue and made their voice heard loud and clear this past November. This week, Congress will debate whether we continue giving President Bush a blank check for this unending civil war, or finally require real accountability and safely and strategically bring our troops home.? Larson is Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus ###
03.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 9, 2007 LARSON NAMED TO SELECT COMMITTEE ON ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND GLOBAL WARMING WASHINGTON, DC- Today, Speaker Nancy Pelosi named Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) to the Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. Larson is one of ten Democrats Speaker Pelosi named to the select committee. Congressman Larson has long been a strong proponent of fuel cell technology in Congress. He is founder and co-chair of the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Coalition. As a member of the House Ways and Means committee, Larson has been a champion for renewable energy production tax credits. Larson is also Vice Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus. ?I am honored to have been selected by Speaker Pelosi to participate in this very important committee,? said Congressman Larson. ?The work of the committee is going to be critical as global warming and energy dependence are probably two of the most important issues facing the future of our planet. Global warming and our dependence on oil risk our economic security, our national security, and threaten our environment and public health. In my district and throughout Connecticut, we have successfully expanded the use of fuel cell technology and I plan to bring this to the dialogue. This issue has been ignored for far too long and now it is time for serious solutions and action and I am proud to be a part.? The new Select Committee will hold hearings and investigations locally, nationally, and internationally to gather the information needed to protect our national security and the environment. It is charged with recommending to the Congress policies, strategies and other innovations to reduce the dependence of the United States on foreign sources of energy and prevent global warming. The Select Committee will raise the profile of these crucial issues in the Congress, the media, and the public eye and will target the younger generation?who have the most at stake?using cutting-edge means of communications. ###
03.08.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 8, 2007 CT Delegation Calls on Air Force to Re-Open CSAR-X Bid Process Washington, DC ? The Connecticut delegation called on Secretary of the Air Force Michael W. Wynne to reopen the selection process for the Air Force?s contract for the Combat Search and Rescue Replacement Vehicle (CSAR-X) to ensure the process is handled in a fair and thorough manner. Despite a Government Accountability Office (GAO) review, which late yesterday released new details about the problems with the procurement process, the Secretary has stated that he would ?like to stay with what we got and get this product going as soon as possible.? In a letter to the Air Force Secretary, the delegation wrote, ?It is the responsibility of the Congress to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent appropriately ? we expect the Air Force to take all steps necessary to address any and all problems that were identified ? Regardless of the Air Force?s ultimate selection, we believe that now is the time to take action to ensure that the selection process is conducted in a fair, thorough and reasoned manner.? The GAO found that the Air Force?s evaluation of the bids was inconsistent with what had been laid out in the solicitation. They further recommended that the Air Force amend its solicitation and request revised proposals. ?The GAO made the correct decision today. American military personnel depend on our pararescue squads to save their lives when they are in harm's way. These units need and deserve the best possible equipment,? said Dodd. ?The helicopter designed and manufactured by Sikorsky?s Connecticut workforce fits that bill. I applaud the company?s decision to aggressively challenge the Air Force?s flawed decision, and believe that Sikorsky?s aircraft should win this contract on its merits, in an open and fair competition.? ?Last month, the GAO upheld Sikorsky?s position that the Sikorsky helicopter did not get a full and complete evaluation against the required criteria. I urge the Air force to follow the GAO recommendations to ensure the nation get the best possible helicopter for this job,? said Lieberman. ?GAO has already stated that this contract was unfairly awarded. The new details have only shed even more light on the procurement process. It is now time for the Air Force to fully comply with those findings,? stated Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (Conn-3). ?Sikorsky?s workers deserve the chance to compete on a level playing field for the right to build the next combat search-and-rescue helicopter for the Air Force, and I believe that they will win this contract when it is re-bid.? Congressman Christopher Shays (Conn-4): ?The Air Force selection process needs to be fair. With the GAO clearly calling this process into question, it seems to me the Air Force should be more focused on correcting the process than on completing an improper one.? ?I am very happy that the GAO is pushing for the Air Force to allow a rebid of the rescue helicopter program. This matter clearly highlights the need for oversight in how these contracts are awarded. We are entrusted to spend the taxpayer?s money wisely and ensure an open and fair contract bidding process. As a world leader in the manufacturing of advanced helicopters, the Sikorsky aircraft program deserves the legitimate review and consideration of the Air Force,? said Congressman John Larson (Conn-1). Congressman Chris Murphy (Conn-5): ?In Connecticut, I hear from my constituents that they are frustrated with the way Washington works. This particular contracting process is of concern because I want to ensure that taxpayers? dollars are being spent appropriately. I look forward to a response from the Secretary.? Below is the text of the letter: March 7, 2007 The Honorable Michael W. Wynne, Secretary 1160 Air Force Pentagon Washington DC, 20330-1670 Dear Secretary Wynne: We are writing to express our concern regarding remarks attributed to you that disregard the Government Accountability Office?s recent determination that the evaluation that resulted in the Air Force?s awarding the CSAR-X contract to The Boeing Company was deeply flawed. The GAO?s premise, of course, is that a proper evaluation might change the outcome and that corrective action would be taken. Thus, we were surprised and concerned to read, following your recent Congressional testimony before the House Armed Services Committee, that you would ?like to stay with what we got and get this product going as soon as possible,? and that the Air Force is considering whether it can take corrective action ?more narrowly? than what GAO has recommended. We would expect the Air Force?s primary concern would be to ensure a fair and unbiased procurement process, but your comments as reported could be construed to suggest a predisposition regarding the need to take corrective action. We hope this was not your intent, and would appreciate a clarification of your views to preclude any misunderstanding. It is the responsibility of the Congress to ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent appropriately. As such, we expect the Air Force to take all steps necessary to address any and all problems that were identified by the GAO regarding CSAR-X procurement. Regardless of the Air Force?s ultimate selection, we believe that now is the time to take action to ensure that the selection process is conducted in a fair, thorough and reasoned manner. We appreciate your personal attention to these concerns, and will continue to monitor this procurement closely. We look forward to your response. Sincerely, Christopher J. Dodd Joseph Lieberman Rosa L. DeLauro Christopher Shays John B. Larson Christopher S. Murphy Joe Courtney ###
03.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 1, 2007 DODD, LIEBERMAN, LARSON AGAIN REQUEST THAT BRISTOL SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE REMAIN OPEN HARTFORD ? U.S. Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and U.S. Representative John B. Larson (D-CT) today wrote to newly appointed Social Security Administration Commissioner Michael Astrue requesting reconsideration of a proposal to close the Social Security office in Bristol. Last year, the Social Security Administration had announced its plan to close the Bristol office by the end of last year and merge its operations with an office in New Britain. Dodd, Lieberman and Larson had protested the closure at that time. Subsequently, the Social Security Administration determined that the Bristol office will remain open beyond the end of the year. In today?s letter, the legislators outlined arguments raised during meetings with the community last fall and expresses their continued opposition to the proposed consolidation. The text of the letter is below: March 1, 2007 Mr. Michael J. Astrue Commissioner Social Security Administration 6401 Security Boulevard Baltimore, MD 21235-0001 RE: Proposed Closing/Consolidation of the Bristol, Connecticut Social Security Office Dear Commissioner Astrue: We are writing today to bring this matter to your attention which was under previous review with the former Social Security Commissioner. We respectfully request reconsideration of the proposal to close the Bristol Social Security Office. As you may know, Region I Commissioner Manuel Vaz and Government Relations Director Kurt Czarnowski of the Boston Regional Office visited Bristol on Thursday, October 5, 2006 to explain the proposal. We were on hand to listen to the public?s concerns, and were pleased to hear Mr. Vaz emphasize that no final decision had been made on this matter. We are united in our strong objection to this proposal and appreciate this opportunity to express the reasons why. The Bristol office provides critical services to the 10th largest city in Connecticut and other surrounding towns. Closing this office will pose a major hardship on the residents in this area. There is no denying that thousands of senior citizens and disabled individuals depend on having access to Social Security services in Bristol. It was reported to our offices that during the 2005 fiscal year, the Bristol Social Security Office served over 12,000 individuals. This is a significant number of individuals given the demographics of this area. We would also like to point out that the elderly population is the fastest growing population in Bristol and surrounding towns. Bristol also has a unique transportation situation. If this office were to close, many of the elderly and disabled residents would be required to rely on public transportation which requires them to transfer buses, or schedule a 3-day pre-arranged bus service for the disabled. Both options pose unreasonable and significant hardships on Bristol area Social Security recipients. As previously stated, we strongly object to this proposal. We ask that you give our concerns full consideration prior to rendering your final decision. We understand that the Social Security Administration needs to find cost savings and we stand ready to assist you in any way possible in order to prevent the closing of the Bristol Social Security Office. Sincerely, Christopher J. Dodd United States Senator Joseph I. Lieberman United States Senator John B. Larson Member of Congress CC: Manuel Vaz, Region 1 Commissioner ###
03.01.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 1, 2007 CONGRESSMAN JOHN B. LARSON INTRODUCES IRAQ BILLBill would repeal Congress? authorization to use force and reverse Bush doctrine of unilateralism WASHINTON, DC- Today in an effort to reverse President Bush?s doctrine of preemption and unilateralism, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) introduced a bill to repeal the use of force given to President Bush by Congress in 2002. The bill calls for a new vote on the war on Iraq based on the current situation, and outlines a different foreign policy approach toward the Middle East that re-emphasizes the United States? long held priorities of diplomacy, deterrence, and containment. ?President Bush?s irresponsible doctrine of preemption and unilateralism was the vehicle that got us into this war. It has been the vehicle that has risked the lives of thousands of our men and women in a civil war that grows bloodier by the day,? said Congressman Larson. ?Meanwhile, the war in Afghanistan has become the forgotten war and terrorist organizations continue to regroup and attack. It is time to put this reckless doctrine to bed, reestablish responsible diplomacy and refocus our energy and resources on Afghanistan.? The bill, which is binding, would repeal the authorization for use of military force against Iraq resolution from 2002. It also outlines ways in which the Bush doctrine of unilateralism and preemption have ignored the precedence of past foreign policy and diplomacy; a policy that has exacerbated the situation in Iraq and has forced us to neglect the situation in Afghanistan. It provides for a sense of Congress asking for a new vote on the war in Iraq based on the current situation, calls for abandonment of the Bush doctrine of preemption and unilateralism, while realigning U.S. foreign policy by enhancing diplomatic relations in the region and redirecting critical support to Afghanistan enabling more aggressive pursuit of Osama Bin Laden and other terrorist organizations. ###
02.26.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 26, 2007 Congressman John Larson?s Web site Wins 2006 Gold Mouse Award615 House and Senate Web sites Examined in 2006 Gold Mouse Report WASHINGTON, DC ? The Web site of Congressman John B. Larson was honored today by the Congressional Management Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, D.C., for being one of the best in Congress. The site, www.house.gov/larson, was one of 615 evaluated in The 2006 Gold Mouse Report: Recognizing the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, which analyzed congressional Web sites including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority sites), and official leadership sites. Eighty-five Web sites were cited in 2006, with 18 winning Gold, 27 winning Silver, and 40 winning Bronze Mouse Awards. ?I am very pleased to have won this award for the second time,? said Congressman Larson. ?The internet is a critical way to communicate with my constituents. I am always looking for ways to improve the access to information about what I am doing in Washington and how I can better serve my constituents,? added Larson. The Gold Mouse Report and Awards are part of the Congressional Management Foundation?s broader research project, ?Connecting to Congress,? funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, University of California-Riverside and Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. ?One of the key purposes of the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those doing a good job,? said Beverly Bell, executive director of the Congressional Management Foundation. ?Web sites that garnered an Award in 2006 illustrate the best practices that we hope can serve as examples for others to follow.? ?Congressman Larson?s Web site shows that he has identified the needs of his various constituencies and has developed easily accessible content that meets their needs online,? said Bell. ?Congressman Larson is to be congratulated for being among the best of the best Web sites on Capitol Hill, and the Congressional Management Foundation is pleased to present Congressman Larson with the 2006 Gold Mouse Award.? ?The 2006 report shows that Web sites are an increasingly critical channel through which Members communicate to, and hear from, constituents. In a time when people can do everything online from renewing their driver licenses to paying their taxes, they understandably expect to find information on the Web about legislation and congressional assistance with federal agencies, as well as the opportunity to communicate their own views,? Bell said. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks that extensive research has identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners at Harvard, Ohio State, and the University of California-Riverside that would be fair and objective, while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a Web site. CMF will be assessing congressional Web sites again in 2007. All House and Senate Member, committee and leadership Web sites will be evaluated during the summer of 2007 and another report is expected to be released by the end of the year. A full copy of the report, the 2006 Gold Mouse Report: Recognizing the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation?s Web site at www.cmfweb.org. ###
02.16.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 16, 2007 Larson praises HOUSE passage of Bipartisan Tax Relief for Small BusinessesBill extends tax provisions for small businesses, critical next step for minimum wage increase WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) praised the passage of the Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) in the House of Representatives this afternoon. The bi-partisan bill extends critical tax provisions for small business owners and lays the groundwork for the House and Senate to come to agreement on raising the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour. ?I am pleased that we were able to come to a bipartisan resolution to create fiscally responsible tax relief for small business, who are the engine of our nation?s economy,? said Congressman Larson. ?This is a critical step forward to ensure a long awaited raise in the minimum wage for millions of hard working Americans.? The bipartisan legislation was introduced by Ways and Means Chairman Charles Rangel and Ranking Member Jim McCrery. Now the bill has passed in the House it will now go to conference with the Senate and is expected to be signed by the President. All of these tax credits are revenue neutral, meaning that they are offset by revenue raising measures. The bill has been endorsed by U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Congressman Larson is a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee and is Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. ###
02.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 12, 2007 Larson holds roundtable with local volunteer firefighters as he reintroduces bill TO Provide tax relief for volunteer first responders SOUTH WINDSOR- Congressman John B. Larson met with local volunteer firefighters and first responders today at a roundtable discussion addressing the Volunteer Firefighter’s Tax Incentive Protection Act (H.R. 943), which Larson introduced Thursday in Washington. This bill was first introduced in 2002 after South Windsor Volunteer Fire Department Chief Phil Crombie, Jr., the Town of South Windsor and other volunteer emergency responders alerted Congressman Larson to the fact that the tax abatements provided by local governments to volunteer firefighters as recruitment and retention incentives were being taxed by the IRS. In response, Congressman Larson immediately held a forum in his district to meet with community leaders and volunteer emergency responders to solicit ideas and input about how to best address this problem. As a result, Larson introduced the bill which amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to allow state and local governments the flexibility to develop beneficial tax incentives for volunteer firefighters and emergency medical personnel without federal interference. The Act is supported by the International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Volunteer Fire Council, and the Congressional Fire Services Institute. To date, it is co-sponsored by over 57 Members of Congress, including the entire Connecticut Congressional delegation and ten members of the House Ways and Means Committee. The companion bill in the Senate is sponsored by Senator Chris Dodd. “This bill reflects the valuable input I received through discussions with local volunteer fire fighters and directly responds to the needs and concerns of the emergency responders in my district, the State of Connecticut and across the country,” said Congressman Larson. “Volunteer first responders play a critical role in our communities. They are required to balance the increasing demands of their service with their families and full time careers. We hope that this Act will provide a small incentive to encourage continued volunteerism and service to our communities,” added Larson. “Financial incentives are critical to the recruitment and retention of volunteer emergency responders. The cost of protecting these incentives is small, when you consider that volunteer firefighters alone save our local communities nearly $37 billion a year,” said Chief Phillip Crombie of the South Windsor Fire Department. ###
02.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 12, 2007 Larson praises Ways and Means Committee passage of Bipartisan Tax Relief for Small BusinessesBill extends tax provisions for small businesses, critical next step for minimum wage increase WASHINGTON, DC- Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) praised the unanimous passage of the Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2007 (H.R. 976) in the House Ways and Means Committee this afternoon. The bi-partisan bill extends critical tax provisions for small business owners and lays the groundwork for the House and Senate to come to agreement on raising the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour. ?I am pleased that we were able to come to a bipartisan resolution to create fiscally responsible tax relief for small business, who are the engine of our nation?s economy,? said Congressman Larson. ?This is a critical step forward to ensure a long awaited raise in the minimum wage for millions of hard working Americans.? The bipartisan legislation was introduced last Friday by Ways and Means Chairman Charles Rangel and Ranking Member Jim McCrery and is expected to be considered by the full House of Representatives later this week and will then go to conference with the Senate. All of these tax credits are revenue neutral, meaning that they are offset by revenue raising measures. The bill has been endorsed by U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Congressman Larson is a Member of the House Ways and Means Committee and is Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus. ###
02.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 12, 2007 Larson Praises Bipartisan Passage of Iraq Resolution Washington, DC- Today Congressman John B. Larson praised the bipartisan passage of House Concurrent Resolution 63, the Iraq resolution that expresses strong support for our troops and opposition to the President to deploy more than 20,000 additional U.S. combat troops to Iraq. The resolution passed 246-182. ?In November the voters made it clear they wanted a new direction in Iraq. Americans? public opinion has strongly rejected this Administration?s escalation plan. Today the Congress made a bipartisan and clear statement affirming support for our troops and opposing the escalation. It was a vote of confidence on a President?s failed policy and it is a reflection of the resonant voice of the American people for a safe, secure and strategic redeployment of our troops. This is a powerful message expressing the people's will that the Administration cannot ignore The American people found their voice along time ago. This week, Congress found its. Now it is time to see if the President listens.? Congressman Larson is Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus. He is a member of the House Ways and Means Committee and served six years on the House Armed Services Committee. ###
01.18.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 18, 2007 LARSON SUPPORTS ENDING GIVEAWAYS TO OIL COMPANIES & INVESTING IN CLEAN ENERGY WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted to repeal $14 billion in taxpayer financed subsidies to large oil companies and invest in clean, renewable energy. Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 6, the CLEAN Energy Act, which passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 264 to 163. Larson stated: ?Big oil has been reaping record profits while working Americans have faced record high gas prices. While the price of gas topped $3 a gallon, the big five oil companies were taking in $97 billion in profit. Americans are getting tapped into twice: once at the pump and once again with their tax dollars going to oil companies in the form of tax breaks and subsidies. ?In the broader picture, our reliance on big oil, especially foreign oil, is dangerous policy. This bill will help to break our dependence on foreign oil by investing in clean, energy-efficient technologies like the fuel cells that are produced in Connecticut. Not only is it important for our national security, it will improve our economic security by creating high-paying new jobs. ?Eliminating unneeded tax breaks for the oil industry and investing in new energy sources are just part of the solution to lowering fuel prices. More work still needs to be done, including preventing manipulation of the oil futures market and ending the practice of price gouging.? The CLEAN Energy Act would ensure oil companies that were awarded the 1998 and 1999 leases for drilling paid their fair share in royalties, and would close loopholes, ending giveaways for Big Oil in the tax code and in the 2005 Energy bill. Further, the bill would create a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources and alternative fuels, promote new energy technologies, develop greater efficiency and improve energy conservation. Larson has long advocated for eliminating unnecessary tax breaks for oil companies. In the 109th Congress, Larson introduced the Oil Subsidy Elimination Act, H.R. 5234, which would have eliminated nearly $7 billion worth of unneeded tax breaks and incentives to oil companies. ###
01.17.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 17, 2007 LARSON VOTES TO CUT INTEREST RATES ON STUDENT LOANSBill would make college more affordable and accessible WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted for H.R. 5, the College Student Relief Act, to make college more affordable and accessible by cutting the interest rates on subsidized student loans for undergraduates. Larson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 5, which passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 356 to 71. ?As the parent of a high school student applying to college, I am well aware of the costs of higher education,? stated Larson. ?This legislation is aimed at helping low- and middle-income students and their families get over the financial barriers to higher education. Not only will it help students achieve the goal of a college education, it will benefit our economy in this age of globalization to have a more highly-skilled and better-educated workforce. ?Students in Connecticut will benefit substantially from this bill. Our state has over 33,000 four-year college students with subsidized student loans. The savings for four-year students starting college in 2007 with subsidized student loans would average $2,350 over the life of the loan. The average savings would increase to $4,560 over the life of the loan for students starting college in 2011. These savings will be a huge benefit for these students when they graduate and have to choose between paying back their loans and paying for rent, utilities, or health insurance.? H.R. 5 will cut the interest rates on subsidized student loans for undergraduates in half over the next five years. The bill is paid for by making modest reductions in certain lender and guaranty agency subsidies in order to make the student loan program more efficient and effective. ###
01.12.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 12, 2007 LARSON VOTES TO LOWER PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS FOR SENIORSLegislation will require federal government to negotiate directly with drug companies WASHINGTON
01.11.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 11, 2007 LARSON BACKS EXPANDED FEDERAL FUNDING FOR STEM CELL RESEARCH WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted in favor of H.R. 3, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. Larson joined 210 of his colleagues as an original cosponsor of H.R. 3. The bill passed with a bipartisan vote of 253 to 174. Larson stated: ?Democrats promised that they would offer Americans hope and take our country in a new direction. Today we can give hope to over 100 million Americans suffering from debilitating or life-threatening diseases. Stem cells provide a unique promise for curing and treating disease and the President?s 2001 policy has proven to be a failure. ?Each year, people suffering from chronic and debilitating diseases and their families come to Washington from around the country to advocate for stem cell research. They are affected by such diseases as Parkinson?s, Multiple Sclerosis, Alzheimer?s, diabetes, and ALS. Among that group are my constituents and residents of Connecticut who come to my office each year with the hope that expanding federal funding for stem cell research can find a cure or treatment for the disease affecting them or their loved ones. It will be gratifying to tell them that the 110th Congress acted on this issue within the first 100 hours. However, we all have work to do to convince the President of the importance of this legislation.? The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act would expand the federal funding of embryonic stem cell research by lifting the restrictions on the embryonic stem cell lines which can be used for federally-funded research ? restrictions that were imposed by President Bush in 2001. Most of the stem cell lines authorized for federally-funded research under the President?s policy are now no longer useful for research. However, the bill only authorizes federal research funds for stem cell lines generated from embryos that would otherwise be discarded by fertility clinics. H.R. 3 also creates an ethical framework that must be followed in conducting this research under the guidance of the National Institutes of Health. During the 109th Congress, this bill passed the House of Representatives, with Larson voting in favor of it, in May of 2005 and the Senate in July 2006, but was vetoed by President Bush. ###
01.10.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 10, 2007 LARSON SUPPORTS LIVING WAGE FOR WORKING AMERICANSVotes to raise minimum wage over two years WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted in favor of H.R. 2, the Fair Minimum Wage Act of 2007. Larson is also an original cosponsor of H.R. 2. ?Democrats pledged to pass legislation to increase the federal minimum wage during the first 100 hours of the 110th Congress,? stated Larson. ?This vote sends the message that this Congress will be committed to America?s working families. While the previous Congress passed tax cuts for the wealthiest few, millions struggled to deal with gas prices, education costs, saving for retirement, and paying for healthcare. This vote today is a step towards ensuring that every American is able to earn a living wage.? The minimum wage has remained at $5.15 an hour since 1997, its lowest level in over fifty years adjusted for inflation. H.R. 2 would increase the federal minimum wage to $7.25 an hour over two years. It passed by a vote of 315 to 116. ###
01.09.2007	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 9, 2007 LARSON VOTES TO IMPLEMENT 9/11 COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted in favor of H.R. 1, the Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations Act. Larson is also an original cosponsor of the legislation. Larson stated: ?Since the 9/11 Commission released its recommendations in July 2004, Democrats have called for their full implementation. However, many have only been partially carried out and some have been completely ignored. House Democrats promised the American people that they would enact all of the 9/11 Commission recommendations and today?s vote signifies that commitment. This bill will make America safer by improving homeland security, preventing terrorists from accessing weapons of mass destruction, and developing strategies to stop the spread of terrorism in Islamic nations. ?During public forums on nuclear nonproliferation I?ve hosted in the past year at St. Joseph College and Trinity College, many of my constituents expressed their concerns about nuclear materials falling into the hands of terrorists. That threat to our nation is real and this bill fulfills the 9/11 Commission recommendation to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction and strengthen our nonproliferation programs. ?More than sixty Connecticut residents lost their lives on that tragic day in 2001. Over five years later, we owe it to them and their families to finally implement these measures and ensure that such a day will never happen again.? H.R. 1, which passed the House by a vote of 299 to 128, contains the following provisions: HOMELAND SECURITY Increase share of state homeland security grants provided on the basis of risk Create stand-alone grant program for communications for first responders 100% inspection of air cargo over the next 3 years Quickly accelerate installation of explosive detection systems for checked baggage 100% scanning of U.S.-bound shipping containers over the next 5 years WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION Improve U.S. non-proliferation program Create a U.S. Coordinator for the Prevention of WMD Proliferation and Terrorism and a blue-ribbon commission to recommend further reforms Strengthen efforts to eliminate nuclear black-market networks ENDING TERRORISM Establish an International Arab and Muslim Youth Opportunity Fund, to provide assistance for educational programs for Arab and Muslim youth around the world Provide for the establishment of a Middle East Foundation, to promote economic opportunities, education reform, human rights, and democratic processes in the countries of the Middle East ###
12.28.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 28, 2006 LARSON PRESENTS BREAST CANCER HEROINE AWARD TO MARIA PALOMARES OF MANCHESTER HARTFORD? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today presented the Nancy Pilver Breast Cancer Heroine Award to Maria Palomares of Manchester in honor of her dedicated work in the fight against breast cancer. Larson presents the award each year to a resident of the First Congressional District who has shown extraordinary dedication to working on the issue of breast cancer through education, prevention, treatment, and awareness. Larson presented the award at the Helen and Harry Gray Cancer Center at Hartford Hospital. Larson stated: ?Maria has shown great dedication to raising awareness of the importance of early detection and regular screening. Likewise, her compassion and commitment have helped many women and their families who are affected by breast cancer. I am proud to present this award to Maria in appreciation of her efforts and for the inspiration she provides to women who are dealing with or who have beaten breast cancer.? The award is named for Nancy Pilver, formerly of Manchester, who was the first recipient of the award in 1999. Pilver was a long-time breast cancer activist who served as the State Legislative Chair of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition Foundation. Larson was so inspired by her story that he decided to name the award after her in 2000. Pilver died in May 2003. Also present were Susan Davis, President of the Connecticut Breast Cancer Coalition Foundation, Dr. Andrew Salner, head of the Helen and Harry Gray Cancer Center at Hartford Hospital, and John Meehan, President and CEO of Hartford Hospital. ?Maria is a wonderful example of how one woman can really make a difference in the lives of many who are fighting breast cancer. Maria is always there to provide support, resources and do whatever she can for everyone she meets. She is a great advocate for women with breast cancer,? said Davis. Palomares is a case manager at the CT Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program and WISEWOMAN at Hartford Hospital. She is a longtime activist in the fight against breast cancer. She also serves as a liaison to the State Department of Public Health. ###
12.05.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 5, 2006 LARSON STATEMENT ON HOUSE DEMOCRATIC FORUM ON IRAQ WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today released the following statement on the House Democratic Forum on Iraq. The forum featured military and foreign affairs experts including House Armed Services Committee Ranking Member Ike Skelton (D-MO), House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member John Murtha (D-PA), Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, and Major General John Batiste. Larson stated: ?I would like to commend Speaker-designate Nancy Pelosi for gathering these experts to open up a dialogue on the War in Iraq. Congress has listened to nothing but the Administration?s baseless reassurances and ?stay the course? policy for too long. It is clear that as the American people discuss this issue amongst themselves from across the kitchen table, they want their leaders to engage in an open and honest debate in the halls of Congress. The experts that spoke before us today have offered a number of perspectives that will help us to hold the President accountable when we convene the 110th Congress. ?The President has laid out a course that doesn?t recognize the expertise of retired generals and diplomats, nor the work of the Iraq Study Group, nor the situation at hand in Iraq. My foremost concern is for the men and women in uniform, especially the members of the Reserve and Guard who have been deployed and redeployed multiple times. Our guiding principle should be whether we can look into the eyes of their parents and say that we are actively working to change the direction in Iraq and bring their sons and daughters home.? ### Larson is Vice Chair of the House Democratic Caucus
12.01.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 1, 2006 LARSON ANNOUNCES $199,500 FEDERAL HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT FOR PORTLAND HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced that the Portland Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded a $199,500 grant from the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The department will use the funds to upgrade and purchase a comprehensive and compliant accountability system to include breathing apparatus and communications equipment. ?The department?s goal has been to purchase and upgrade this critical equipment both to protect their firefighters and meet national firefighter safety standards,? said Larson. ?This funding will give the department the opportunity to meet that goal so they can best serve the community and minimize the danger to their volunteers. Firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical personnel represent the front lines in the effort to keep our communities and our families safe and it is the responsibility of Congress to ensure that programs like the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program are properly funded.? This year the 2006 Assistance to Firefighter grants will award approximately $485 million directly to fire departments around the nation. Portland will receive funding from the Operations and Safety Program within the Assistance to Firefighters Grants. The funding can be used for training, equipment, personal protective equipment, wellness and fitness, and modifications to fire stations and facilities. In April 2005 Larson wrote to the Department of Homeland Security to urge that today's funding be awarded to the Portland Volunteer Fire Department. ###
11.16.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 16, 2006 LARSON REELECTED VICE CHAIR OF DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) was reelected today as Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus of the U.S. House of Representatives. Larson released the following statement: ?I am again honored to be chosen by my colleagues as Vice Chair in our new majority. Future Speaker Pelosi has unifed our Caucus like never before and led us to a Democratic majority. Now it?s time to roll up our sleeves and work together for the American people. I look forward to working with our newly elected Caucus Chair Rahm Emanuel to lead our Caucus in a new and dynamic direction. ?Democrats have chosen a strong slate of leaders and remain united in our goal to move America in a New Direction. Being in the majority for the first time in twelve years presents us with the opportunity to lead the country on behalf of the people we are sworn to serve.? Larson was unopposed in his bid to remain Vice Chair and is now the fifth ranking member of the Democratic leadership. ###
11.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 13, 2006 LARSON APPLAUDS PASSAGE OF BILL TO PROTECT LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALMON BROOK WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today welcomed passage of the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook Wild and Scenic River Study Act (S. 435) in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill, introduced by Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), would commission a feasibility study to evaluate whether the Lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook, a major tributary, qualifies as a Wild and Scenic Partnership River within the National Park Service?s National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. ?I commend Senators Dodd and Lieberman for their efforts to pass this legislation,? stated Larson. ?I would also like to praise the efforts of Congresswoman Nancy Johnson, who I worked with in the House on this legislation that is so important to the Farmington River Valley. The lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook host a wealth of natural beauty, a variety of wildlife, and a cultural past important to our state, region, and nation. We owe it to future generations to protect these valuable natural resources.? The bill passed the House by a voice vote. It was passed in the Senate on December 16, 2005 and will become law once signed by the president. The lower Farmington River crosses through the First Congressional District and is defined as the forty mile stretch between the lower Collinsville Dam in Burlington and the Rainbow Dam in Windsor. Larson was an original cosponsor of a similar bill (H.R. 1344) introduced by Congresswoman Nancy Johnson (CT-5) to evaluate the lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook as a Wild and Scenic Partnership River which passed the House on September 25, 2006. ###
10.30.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 30, 2006 LARSON COMMENDS RULE REQUIRING SPRINKLERS IN U.S. NURSING HOMESStep in right direction ? more action still needed HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today applauded the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) for proposing a rule that would require all nursing homes serving Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries to install sprinkler systems. After a February 2003 fire at Greenwood Health Center in Hartford claimed the lives of sixteen residents, Larson became a national leader in the effort to ensure all nursing homes have an automatic sprinkler system. Larson is the author of the Nursing Home Fire Safety Act (H.R. 4491) that would establish a loan program and need-based grant program to aid nursing homes in tackling the high cost of installing sprinklers. The bill also expresses the sense of Congress that every nursing home in America should be equipped with full sprinkler systems within five years and that CMS should move quickly to adopt stronger fire safety standards. ?This action by CMS is a step in the right direction, but the costs associated with upgrading still remain a burden for older facilities. That is why the Nursing Home Fire Safety Act remains so important. Congress must step up and offer assistance like low interest loans or grants to the neediest facilities to meet this challenge and protect our families. I will continue to work on behalf of our nation?s most vulnerable citizens to ensure that all nursing home facilities have sprinkler systems in a swift and reasonable timeframe.? The proposed rule, published in the October 27, 2006 Federal Register, would require every long term care facility to install ?an approved, supervised automatic sprinkler system? in accordance with National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) guidance. It also requests public comment on an appropriate phase-in timeframe for the installation of sprinkler systems. Public comments will be accepted until December 26, 2006. The final rule will be published after consideration of public comments. ### For more information on nursing home fire safety, visit https://www.house.gov/larson/sprinklers.htm
10.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 13, 2006 DODD, LIEBERMAN, LARSON REQUEST THAT BRISTOL SOCIAL SECURITY OFFICE REMAIN OPEN HARTFORD ? U.S. Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and U.S. Representative John B. Larson (D-CT) today wrote to Social Security Commissioner Jo Anne Barnhardt requesting reconsideration of a proposal to close the Social Security office in Bristol and merge its operations with an office in New Britain and expressing their opposition to the proposed consolidation. In the letter, the legislators outlined arguments raised during meetings with the community and local officials in Bristol. They also participated in a public meeting with representatives from the Social Security Administration on October 5 at Bristol City Hall.The text of the letter is below:October 13, 2006Ms. Jo Anne B. BarnhartCommissioner Social Security Administration6401 Security BoulevardBaltimore, MD 21235-0001RE: Proposed closing/consolidation of the Bristol, CT Social Security Office to New Britain.Dear Commissioner Barnhart:We would like to respectfully request reconsideration of the proposal to close the Bristol Social Security Office. We are united in believing that this proposal should be rejected. As you know, Regional Commissioner Manuel Vaz and Government Relations Director Kurt Czarnowski of the Boston Regional Office visited Bristol on Thursday October 5th to explain the proposal. We were pleased to hear Mr. Vaz emphasize that no final decision has been made on this matter, and we were on hand to listen to the public?s response. First, we note that the alleged savings would be minimal since the staff caseload for Bristol appears to be virtually identical to the staff caseload in New Britain. Therefore, there would be no cost savings from personnel. Based on demographic data shown in the Consolidation of the New Britain and Bristol Service Areas report submitted to our offices, the Bristol office serves approximately 12,000 clients with a total staff of five (5) employees. In addition, the report shows that the New Britain office services approximately 35,000 clients with a total staff of sixteen (16) employees. The Bristol office employs a third (1/3) of the staff than the New Britain office but handles a comparable number of social security cases. The Bristol Chamber of Commerce and City Council Members made it abundantly clear that Bristol is in fact a regional hub, separate and unique from New Britain. The surrounding communities of Plymouth, Terryville, and Burlington access the Bristol office and would find transportation to the New Britain Social Security Office a hardship. In fact, the transportation infrastructure, as it currently exists, cannot meet the needs of Bristol residents and the surrounding towns should they need to travel to New Britain. The Dial-A-Ride Program from some towns will not transport clients to New Britain and is a program that is overwhelmed by current demands.The Mayor of Plymouth testified that transportation to the New Britain Office would be a tremendous burden and nearly impossible for Plymouth residents. The town would not be able to provide Plymouth residents with access to a Social Security Office in New Britain. The Paratransit Regional Director testified that use of the town transportation system has already doubled between the years 2000 to 2006, and that they would not be able to accommodate a sudden increase for additional services.Many residents who access the Bristol Social Security Office do not possess their own vehicle. Taking into consideration those individuals who do own automobiles, there is no direct route to the New Britain office and the additional travel and cost of gas for those on a fixed income creates an additional burden they cannot afford.The Bristol Social Service employees took the recommended bus route from Bristol to New Britain. They stated at the meeting that this travel entailed three hours and three transfers to make a round trip, without counting the time involved for a representative to meet with them. We cannot ask that kind of travel and time of our disabled and elderly. Additional testimony from the citizens stated that many of the power scooters and wheelchairs could not keep batteries charged long enough for the bus ride, and that the buses could not accommodate all types of these battery powered vehicles.The United Way recently completed a senior needs assessment for the area (see enclosed). The study pointed out six areas for improvement; two of which were transportation and access to services. This study also confirmed what census research on Bristol had shown. Bristol is a city with a higher population of senior residents; it has a senior population that is growing as is the population as a whole, and it has a higher percentage of disabled in this community than other cities in Connecticut.Finally, citizens attending the meeting expressed very serious concerns about their lack of computer access, and dissatisfaction with the telephone service they have received from the New Britain office in the past. Although the Social Security Administration offers online services, many residents to do not have computer access. This would create another difficulty for many people. In contrast, citizens were extremely satisfied with the quality of service and interactions they had at the Bristol office.The citizens and public servants of the City of Bristol have brought a new perspective demonstrating the need for a Social Security Office to remain in Bristol. They clearly stated they need the local office, and the compliments of the staff at the Bristol Office were generous and in notable quantity. We are united in believing that this proposal should be rejected. We ask that you review the issues that have been brought to our attention and strongly recommend that you reject the consolidation proposal.Sincerely,CHRISTOPHER J. DODD JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN JOHN B. LARSONUnited States Senator United States Senator Member of CongressCC: Mr. Manuel J. Vaz, Regional Commissioner ###
10.11.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 11, 2006 LARSON ANNOUNCES LEGISLATION TO HELP YOUTH DEAL WITH VIOLENCE IN THEIR COMMUNITIES HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced the City Youth Violence Recovery Act (H.R. 6215), legislation he recently introduced to provide grants to urban communities to help city youth deal with the aftermath of violence in their community. The legislation was the result of discussions with community and municipal leaders and Hartford?s delegation to the Connecticut General Assembly concerning youth violence in the City of Hartford. There have been 129 shooting incidents in Hartford since the beginning of 2006 and 19 homicides. After visiting Hartford in July, civil rights leader Congressman John Lewis (D-GA) agreed to work with Larson to introduce the legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. The bill has 28 original cosponsors. ?Through the inspiration of former Hartford Councilman Steve Harris and the hard work of Congressman Lewis, we have created a bill that we hope will help end the cycle of violence,? stated Larson. ?While we can never cease trying to stop the root causes of violence, we cannot forget the aftermath it leaves on the streets of our cities. Our urban youth are facing a trauma similar to what is experienced in a war zone. This bill aims to help those children heal and deal with the violence and grow up to be the ones who stop it.? Specifically, the bill would: Create a grant program under the Department of Health and Human Services (in consultation with the Department of Justice). Award funding to a state mental health agency or a partnership between a state mental health agency and a city agency, other state agency, colleges and universities, nonprofit and other organizations. Require grant activities to be directed to urban communities with high or increasing incidence of youth violence. Support counseling, mental health services, and mentoring focused on dealing with the aftermath of violence. Would allow up to 15% of funding for violence-prevention education. Authorize $10 million annually for FY07-FY12. ###
09.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 29, 2006 LARSON OPPOSES PRESIDENT?S SECRET WIRETAPPING PROGRAM WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Congressman John Larson (CT-1) late last night voted against H.R. 5825, the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act, which authorizes and expands the President?s secret domestic wiretapping program. The bill passed the House by a vote of 232 to 191. ?Once again, Congress is voting to grant the President authority that is unconstitutional and unaccountable,? stated Larson. ?First, they rubberstamp the President?s military tribunal program and now they?re rubberstamping his illegal wiretapping program, both of which have been ruled unconstitutional. This Congress is completely ignoring its responsibilities of oversight and accountability. ?It is the duty of Congress to provide our intelligence community with the tools to track terrorists, but within the confines of our laws and the Constitution. If the Republican leadership really wanted to improve our intelligence efforts, it would be bringing up the remaining 9/11 Commission recommendations. Instead we?re doing nothing substantive while Osama bin Laden runs free.? H.R. 5825 allows the President to authorize electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists without obtaining warrants from a secret court, as required by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA). The President?s program was first revealed in December 2005, and was ruled unconstitutional by a US district court last month. ###
09.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 27, 2006 LARSON SUPPORTS TROOPS AND GENEVA CONVENTIONS WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted against H.R. 6166, legislation authorizing military tribunals for suspected terrorists. It passed the House by a vote of 253 to 168. ?This so-called ?compromise? fails to establish a fair and legally sound process for holding and trying detainees,? Larson said. ?It violates sixty years of international obligations under the Geneva Conventions by allowing the President to define, on his own, what is and is not torture. ?We abide by the U.S. Constitution and that is what makes us different from the terrorists. Terrorists do not deserve special treatment, but they do deserve the rights that they wish to abolish through their hateful activities. Military lawyers and judges have testified before Congress that any ambiguity in our ban on abuse and torture gives our enemies an excuse to engage in abusive and torturous activities against American soldiers and citizens. That is an unacceptable risk. ?This bill falls short of the rule of law by denying detainees the basic right of habeas corpus by giving the Administration the broad authority to hold suspects indefinitely and without charge. And, the trials established in this legislation fail to meet the requirements of due process and lack an effective appeals process. ?There is no doubt that terrorists who attack our nation and our citizens should be brought to swift and complete justice. However, we must do so in a way that upholds our longstanding notions of freedom and justice that define us as Americans. The President could have done this. Instead, his unconstitutional military tribunals have caused not a single one of the terrorists who planned the 9/11 attacks to be brought to trial. Congress has been required to enact legislation that will create military commissions to try terrorist suspects that will withstand the scrutiny of the Supreme Court. This bill does meet that task. ?Unfortunately, the Republican-controlled Rules Committee once again refused to allow a number of amendments offered by my colleagues to improve this legislation and possibly vote in unison. That is what is most objectionable about this legislation. This is a severely flawed bill that I cannot support.? ###
09.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 27, 2006 DEFENSE BILL BENEFITS CONNECTICUT, FIRST DISTRICT WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) late last night supported American troops by voting in favor of the conference report for H.R. 5631, the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations Act. The bill provides $447.4 billion for military and defense funding. The bill includes $70 billion in funding for the War in Iraq. Larson stated, ?While I have been a steadfast opponent of the war, our men and women in combat deserve our full support. It is particularly frustrating to see the findings of the National Intelligence Estimate which concludes that the War in Iraq ?has become the ?cause celebre? for jihadists, breeding a deep resentment of U.S. involvement in the Muslim world and cultivating supporters for the global jihadist movement.? The War in Iraq has already cost $318.5 billion with Secretary Rumsfeld unable to account for $9 billion of this expenditure. That $9 billion means jobs here in America. We need to hold the Department of Defense more accountable if we are going to entrust them with taxpayer?s dollars.? Larson added: ?The defense industry plays a vital role in Connecticut?s economy and this bill provides millions of dollars for the state to retain and grow jobs. This bill is good for Connecticut and good for the First District.? The bill also includes funding for major defense projects that are important to Connecticut: $480 million to procure two F-35 Joint Strike Fighters, $219 million in advanced procurement of 12 JSFs in 2008, and $4.3 billion for research and development on the aircraft $2.7 billion to procure 20 F/A 22 Raptor attack aircraft $4.3 billion for 22 C-17 Globemasters $898 million to procure 59 UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters for the Army and National Guard $549 million to procure 18 MH-60S Navy Knighthawk helicopters $920 million to procure 25 MH-60R Navy Seahawk helicopters $2.5 billion to procure one Virginia class attack submarine ###
09.25.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 25, 2006 LARSON CALLS FOR OVERSIGHT OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCEConcerned over report finding that Iraq war has increased danger of terrorism WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today joined other House Democratic leaders in calling for Congressional oversight hearings on a reported April 2006 National Intelligence Estimate. Recent media reports claim that it concluded that the Iraq war has increased the danger of terrorism against the United States. ?If the National Intelligence Estimate did come to this conclusion, it proves that staying the course in Iraq is not a strategy for success,? stated Larson. ?The American people deserve to know the truth about our nation?s intelligence findings, not soundbites from the Administration, so they can decide for themselves about the war in Iraq. Once they have the whole picture, I think they will agree that we need a new direction in Iraq and a new direction for America.? The text of the letter to Speaker Dennis Hastert requesting Congressional oversight hearings: September 25, 2006 The Honorable J. Dennis Hastert Speaker of the House U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker: This weekend, the news media reported that American intelligence agencies completed a National Intelligence Estimate finding that the Iraq war has increased the danger of terrorism against the United States , spawning a new generation of Islamic radicalism.[1] According to the New York Times, which first reported on the intelligence estimate, the classified assessment represents ?a consensus view of the 16 disparate spy services inside government? and was approved by John D. Negroponte, the director of national intelligence.[2] ?Rather than being in retreat,? the intelligence agencies conclude, Islamic radicalism ?has metastasized and spread across the globe.?[3] This reported National Intelligence Estimate is an alarm bell warning that our national security is seriously off course. The National Intelligence Estimate, as described in the press accounts, undermines numerous statements by the President and Republican congressional leaders that the invasion and occupation of Iraq have made America safer. The reality according to the intelligence agencies appears to be just the opposite. The intelligence agencies report that ?rather than contributing to eventual victory in the global counterterrorism struggle, the situation in Iraq has worsened the U.S. position.?[4] They find that ?war in Iraq has made global terrorism worse by fanning Islamic radicalism and providing a training ground for lethal methods that are increasingly being exported to other countries.?[5] The reports of the findings in the National Intelligence Estimate would seem to have extraordinary implications that deserve immediate and thorough examination by Congress. We have been at war in Iraq since 2003, and thousands of Americans have lost their lives and limbs in the conflict. Yet it now appears that all 16 of the President?s own intelligence agencies are raising questions about whether the Administration?s actions are enhancing national security or imperiling it. Congress failed to conduct effective oversight before the war, and we are failing again now. Our role as a co-equal branch of government is to provide aggressive and independent oversight. We therefore call on you to direct the committees of jurisdiction to hold immediate oversight hearings this week and next on the new National Intelligence Estimate and its ramifications for U.S. policy. When members leave this week to return home for October, we are leaving behind crucial unfinished business. We will not have completed adopting critical recommendations from the 9/11 Commission, passing the intelligence authorization bill, or implementing full port security screening measures. The defense authorization bill, which will provide critical funding and benefits for our troops, is stalled reportedly because you are seeking to attach unrelated and divisive provisions to it. The new National Intelligence Estimate has a direct bearing on these issues. It tells us that ?staying the course,? as the Administration proposes, is making our nation more dangerous. We should heed this warning and hold hearings now so that the members are in a position to enact more effective policies when Congress returns for the lame-duck session after the elections. We hope you will consider this proposal, and we look forward to working together with you. Sincerely, Nancy Pelosi Steny HoyerHouse Democratic Leader House Democratic Whip James E. Clyburn John B. Larson House Democratic Caucus Chair House Democratic Caucus Vice-Chair Henry A. Waxman David Obey Ranking Member Ranking Member Committee on Government Reform Committee on Appropriations Jane Harman Tom Lantos Ranking Member Ranking Member Select Intelligence Committee International Relations Committee Ike Skelton John P. Murtha Ranking Member Ranking Member Armed Services Committee Defense Appropriations Subcommittee Bennie G. Thompson Ranking Member Homeland Security Committee # # # [1] Spy Agencies Say Iraq War Worsens Terrorism Threat, New York Times ( Sept. 23, 2006 ). [2] Id. [3] Id. [4] Spy Agencies Say Iraq War Hurting U.S. Terror Fight, Washington Post ( Sept. 24, 2006 ). [5] Spy Agencies Say Iraq War Fuels Terror, Los Angeles Times (Sept. 24, 2006).
09.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 13, 2006 LARSON RECOGNIZES FIFTH ANNIVERSARY OF SEPTEMBER 11 WASHINGTON ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today released the following statement recognizing the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks on America: ?Five years ago, on a clear September morning, our country was attacked by an enemy full of hatred and with no regard for human life. Thousands of American lives were lost as the World Trade Center towers collapsed, the Pentagon smoldered, and a plane crashed into the fields of Pennsylvania. However, heroes were born in the selfless firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical workers who rushed into burning buildings to save the lives of their fellow Americans. America did not crumble in fear that day; it banded together in solidarity. I will always remember standing on the steps of the Capitol that evening as Democratic and Republican lawmakers stood together as Americans, without party labels, and spontaneously began singing ?God Bless America.? ?In the past five years, we?ve done much to honor those who lost their lives and loved ones on that day. The most important thing we can do to honor them is to make America safer while protecting the liberties that make our nation what it is. We have come a long way in the five years since 9/11, but our nation is still not as safe as it can and should be. Today is not only a chance to look back at where we?ve been the past five years but an opportunity to look forward at the difficult challenges ahead of us. ?Today, the Democratic Caucus listened to presentations from former National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, and General Wesley Clark, the former NATO Supreme Allied Commander in Europe. This distinguished trio of foreign policy experts offered a stark picture of American foreign policy and homeland security. ?Later in the day, the House debated a resolution, H.Res. 994, recognizing the fifth anniversary of September 11. The resolution honored the heroes of that day and expressed sorrow for those who lost their lives and their loved ones. It commended Congress for its actions in protecting America since that time by passing such legislation as the PATRIOT Act. But, as we learned today from America?s foremost security and foreign policy experts, Congress has much more work to do. ?Currently, only 20 of the 9/11 Commission?s 41 bipartisan recommendations to strengthen our nation?s homeland security have been fully enacted. As a report from the Homeland Security Committee Democrats demonstrates, Congress made little progress on key recommendations, including improving first responder communications interoperability, government information sharing, and improving aviation passenger and cargo screening. ?Key gaps remain in our homeland security. Today, most of the cargo coming into our ports and loading on our aircraft go unscreened for threats. Our borders remain porous, with a shortage of Border Patrol agents to oversee the border. Funding for our first responders, who serve on the front lines homeland security, continues to decline. ?After we were attacked, there was near unanimous agreement both in Congress and among the American people over the need to take on the perpetrators of 9/11: Al Qaeda, Osama bin Laden, and the Taliban. Yet, today our search for bin Laden has grown ?stone cold? and the Taliban is regaining strength all over Afghanistan. ?Instead of accomplishing the mission in Afghanistan, the Administration led us into war in Iraq. We abandoned Afghanistan to embark on a war that has eroded our standing in the world, stretched our military to the breaking point, and left our troops in the middle of a growing sectarian violence and an occupation with no end in sight. ?As Dr. Brzezinski simply stated, ?This is not a matter of right or wrong policy, it?s a matter of smart or stupid policy.? We need to work together to enact smart policies and provide real security for Americans. That is the most important thing we can do to memorialize the victims and the heroes of September 11.? ###
08.31.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 31, 2006 LARSON, LOCAL OFFICIALS ANNOUNCE FUEL CELL BUS FOR HARTFORDInitiative will Bring New England?s First Zero-Emission Fuel Cell Bus to Connecticut HARTFORD ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) and local officials today announced that Hartford will receive New England?s first zero-emission hybrid fuel cell bus. Larson was joined by officials from the Greater Hartford Transit District, CTTRANSIT, UTC Power, the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT), and the Capitol Region Council of Governments (CRCOG) at Union Station in Hartford. ?This initiative is the kind of collaboration needed between federal, state, and local governments and private partners to achieve energy independence,? stated Larson. ?By working together, we were able to obtain the grant to fund New England?s first fuel cell bus, a great first step towards energy independence. ?It?s only appropriate that Connecticut, as the Fuel Cell Capitol of the world, be the first state in New England to receive this bus, especially since it will be powered by fuel cells built by UTC Power of South Windsor. The State?s commitment to this project will help Connecticut retain its dominance in the fuel cell industry.? ?With the high price of gas, uncertainty in the Middle East, and the threat of global warming, we need to transition from a petro economy to a hydrogen economy. The federal government needs to lead the way with bold initiatives. This project is the first step towards a fleet of fuel cell buses in Hartford, across Connecticut, and around the country. With the proper investment, the fuel cell industry will be able to produce a commercially viable product that will allow consumers to have a fuel cell vehicle in their garage.? Larson worked with the various partners associated with this project to obtain a $2.9 million Federal Transit Administration (FTA) grant to pay for the bus and the construction of the infrastructure to support future fuel cell transportation projects in Greater Hartford. A new hydrogen fueling facility will be constructed in South Windsor by UTC Power. ###
08.29.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 29, 2006 LARSON REFLECTS ON VISIT TO GULF COAST FOR ANNIVERSARY OF HURRICANE KATRINA WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) visited the Gulf Coast Region this week to mark the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina as part of a delegation of twenty-four House Democrats. ?I have great respect for the resiliency of the people in the Gulf Coast,? stated Larson. ?Its difficult to explain the depth of the devastation, but having been to Baghdad several times, I can tell you that the lower Ninth Ward is like a war zone. While the hurricane could not have been avoided, the catastrophe that occurred was manmade by lack of planning and lack of response. ?Many around here feel that they have been abandoned by their government and are frustrated by the lack of progress in the year since this disaster. We came here to assure them that they have not been forgotten and that we are there to listen, learn, and help rebuild. We must renew our commitment to our fellow Americans who were impacted by Hurricane Katrina. ?After touring all the breaches in New Orleans, the Corps of Engineers told us that they are better prepared. However, another hurricane of Katrina?s intensity would still have devastating effects on the area. To make the Gulf Coast safe we need the political will and money to do it. ?A minister we visited left us with one goal: to finish. Democrats are committed to a new direction that will rejuvenate and restore the lives, homes, and livelihoods of the people of the Gulf Coast. If we can provide the proper aid and assistance to Iraq, we certainly can provide it to our fellow Americans.? The delegation of Democratic lawmakers toured New Orleans and visited the lower Ninth Wards, New Orleans East, Gentilly, Lakeview, and the Charity Hospital. They also hosted a town hall meeting in Bay St. Louis, MS on August 28 to discuss insurance claims and coverage, a complicated hurdle in the rebuilding process. ###
07.28.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 28, 2006 LARSON: NO CONGRESSIONAL PAY RAISE UNTIL MINIMUM WAGE INCREASE WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today called on members of Congress to forgo any pay raise until the House votes on a minimum wage increase. The minimum wage has remained at $5.15 an hour since 1997, its lowest level in fifty years adjusted for inflation. House Democrats have attempted numerous times to bring a minimum wage increase to the floor for a vote, but have been defeated by Republicans each time. Larson stated, ?Millions of Americans are struggling in this economy, dealing with gas prices, education costs, pension security, and prescription drugs. Billions of dollars in subsidies are given away to big oil companies while it takes a full day?s pay at minimum wage to pay for a tank of gas. Billions of dollars in tax cuts are given to the wealthiest one percent of Americans while young people struggle to afford the cost of college tuition. Billions of dollars are given away to the pharmaceutical industry while seniors struggle to pay for the life-saving prescription drugs they need. ?This do-nothing Congress has had all year to address the minimum wage. Instead, the Republican majority has waited to bring it up in a late night or weekend vote just before Congress recesses for five weeks. What?s even worse is they appear ready to pair the minimum wage vote with estate tax cuts, or pension reforms that will hurt average workers, or association health plans that overrule hard fought healthcare rights and Republicans will use heavy-handed procedural tactics to ensure that Democrats can?t strip these provisions and have a clean vote on minimum wage. ?What the Republicans are saying is that they can?t help low-income workers without giving another handout to the wealthiest Americans.? ###
07.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 26, 2006 LARSON, LANGEVIN SUPPORT BOUNDLESS PLAYGROUNDS INITIATIVE WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representatives John B. Larson (CT-1) and Jim Langevin (RI-2) released the following statement today: ?As we recognize the 16th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act this July 26, we are proud to join together in support of equal access and opportunity for the millions of Americans with disabilities. Today we are coming together to share the importance of accessibility on playgrounds for children with disabilities. We must support the construction of ?Boundless? playgrounds so that children of all abilities can learn and play together. We encourage our colleagues in Congress and elected officials at all levels to work to ensure that all children can have equal access and equal opportunity to play together. There should be ?No Child Left on the Side,? and we commend the efforts of Boundless Playgrounds, Hasbro, Inc. and GameTime as they launch this national campaign to make a difference in children's lives and ultimately to see a Boundless Playground in every community, for every child.? ###
07.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 26, 2006 LARSON: IRAQI PRIME MINISTER FAILED TO ADDRESS AMERICA?S CONCERNS WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today expressed disappointment that Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki failed to address specific concerns about the future of Iraq. In a letter dated July 21, 2006, Larson asked Prime Minister Maliki to address two critical issues during his visit to the United States: amnesty for insurgents who have killed Americans and the recent anti-Semitic remarks by the Iraqi Parliament Speaker. Larson stated, ?I am gravely disappointed that Prime Minister Maliki failed to address these crucial issues which are important for the future of Iraq and the future of the Middle East. While the Prime Minister has stated that no amnesty will be given to those who kill Americans, the proposed reconciliation plan remains vague and polls show that forty-seven percent of Iraqis approve of killing Americans. Additionally, Iraqi Parliament Speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani said yesterday, ?I personally think whoever kills an American soldier in defense of his country would have a statue built for him in that country.? I had hoped Prime Minister Maliki would dispel these anti-American sentiments and stand strongly by his earlier statements opposing amnesty for insurgents who kill Americans. ?While he spoke of universal human rights and equality, I am further disappointed that the Prime Minister did not reject recent anti-Semitic remarks coming from the Iraqi government. Not only has the Parliament Speaker accused ?Jews? of financing acts of violence in Iraq in an attempt to seize power in the government, the Prime Minister himself has condemned Israel as it defends itself against terrorist groups like Hezbollah and Hamas. It was my hope that during his address the Prime Minister would stand with other Arab nations like Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Jordan in condemning the actions of Hezbollah, a group responsible for the deaths of 241 Marines in 1983. These hateful sentiments have no place in public discourse and set back the efforts of those trying to achieve peace and stability in the Middle East. ?The Prime Minister was not here addressing the U.S. Congress simply as an honor. He was here to answer serious questions that America has about the future of Iraq. The United States has stood by Iraq and its fledgling government and thousands of our men and women have sacrificed life and limb for the cause of Iraqi democracy. For him to neglect the issues of amnesty and anti-Semitism is an affront to all Americans and my colleague Rosa DeLauro was justified in boycotting his address. I will continue to press for the Prime Minister to take a clear stand on these issues.? ###
07.20.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 20, 2006 LARSON EXPRESSES SUPPORT FOR ISRAEL WASHINGTON, D.C. ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today voted in favor of a resolution (H.Res. 921) which condemns the recent attacks against Israel, holds terrorists and their state-sponsors accountable for such attacks, and supports Israel?s right to defend itself. Larson stated: ?I support this resolution and continue my strong support for Israel and its right to defend itself. We must reaffirm our commitment to defeat terrorists in light of the actions of Hezbollah, Hamas, and those who support these extreme terrorist organizations. Additionally, the comments by the President of the Iraqi National Assembly, Mahmoud al-Mashhadani, accusing ?Jews? of financing violence in Iraq raise additional concerns that anti-Semitism remains rampant in the Middle East. We must focus our efforts on eliminating the hate that fuels terrorism and work to bring peace and stability to the Middle East.? ###
07.20.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 20, 2006 LARSON: U.S. MUST STAND WITH IRAQI PRIME MINISTER?S OPPOSITION TO INSURGENT AMNESTYUrges rejection of Iraqi Speaker?s anti-Semitic remarks WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today continued efforts to ensure that Iraqi insurgents who attacked, kidnapped, wounded, or killed member of the Armed Services or American citizens are not awarded amnesty. Larson introduced H.J.Res. 90 to declare that the United States opposes such a policy. The bill currently has 67 cosponsors. Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki is scheduled to visit the United States to meet with President Bush and address a joint session of the U.S. Congress. While Prime Minister Maliki has stated that ?there will be no amnesty for those who have killed Americans,? the proposed Iraqi national reconciliation plan and other Iraqi officials remain vague on this subject. In a letter to Prime Minister Maliki, Larson encouraged him to make clear his opposition to amnesty during his visit to the United States. Larson also called on Prime Minister Maliki to reject the statement of Iraqi Parliament Speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani who accused ?Jews? of financing acts of violence in Iraq to gain influence in the government. Larson stated, ?I am sure you agree that we must focus our efforts on eliminating the hate that fuels terrorism and work to bring peace and stability to the Middle East, and that we must start by repudiating unfounded and hateful remarks such as these.? Larson also wrote to President Bush encouraging him to publicly express his support for Prime Minister Maliki?s statements rejecting amnesty and renouncing the statements of Mr. Mashhadini. Finally, Larson wrote to House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert (IL-14) and Majority Leader John Boehner (OH-8) urging them to bring H.J. Res. 90 up for a vote before the House of Representatives during the time period the Prime Minister will be in the United States. ?By passing this resolution next week during the Prime Minister?s visit, we can send a clear and unequivocal message that our nation stands with him in opposing amnesty for those who have killed Americans,? stated Larson. ?This would be a simple, yet resounding, message for both our troops and the Iraqi people.? ### The full text of the letters can be found https://www.house.gov/larson/amnesty.htm ###
07.19.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 19, 2006 LARSON SUPPORTS STEM CELL RESEARCH WASHINGTON ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today was disheartened by the President?s veto of stem cell research legislation and pledged to vote in favor of overriding the veto. ?This veto takes the air out of the balloons of hope for so many patients and their families who are counting on this legislation,? stated Larson. ?For the President to use his first veto to stop lifesaving stem cell research takes the country and the hopes of so many who are suffering in the wrong direction. We owe it to millions of Americans with chronic, debilitating diseases like Parkinson?s, Multiple Sclerosis, Alzheimer?s, diabetes, and ALS to federally fund this promising research. For their families, stem cell research may be their only hope. The President?s 2001 stem cell policy has proven to be a failure and this veto fails the American people. Instead of vetoing excessive profits to oil companies, this Administration chose to veto cures for these diseases which touch all Americans. I will vigorously pursue the override of this veto on behalf of the American people.? The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 810), of which Larson is an original cosponsor, passed the House on May 24, 2005, by a vote of 238 to 194. It passed the Senate on July 18, 2006, by a vote on 63 to 37. ###
07.10.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 10, 2006 CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER JOHN LEWIS VISITS HARTFORDLarson and Lewis meet with community leaders HARTFORD ? U.S. Representatives John B. Larson (CT-1) and John Lewis (GA-5) met with Hartford community leaders to discuss the importance of religious, political, and civic leaders coming together to address issues of their community and neighborhoods. Congressman Lewis has served in the U.S. Congress since 1986 and was recognized as one of the Big Six leaders of the Civil Rights Movement. He has dedicated his life to protecting human rights, securing civil liberties, and building what he calls ?The Beloved Community? in America. While in Hartford, Congressman Lewis met with community leaders of Hartford?s North End, took part in an ecumenical conference with religious leaders from the greater Hartford area, and visited a youth summer program at the Northwest Hartford Boys and Girls Club. Larson stated: ?John Lewis is often referred to as ?the conscience of the U.S. Congress.? He represents the living history of the struggle for civil rights and commands widespread respect for his humanitarian service. I am especially pleased that he has made the time to discuss nonviolence as way of life with our community. As a leader with the Faith and Politics Institute I look forward to working with Congressman Lewis, the political and religious leadership of Hartford, and the community to examine potential models that can provide opportunities to Hartford?s neighborhoods. I want to use John Lewis?s experience in the civil rights movement as a model for igniting a cultural, spiritual, and economic rival in the Greater Hartford community.? Lewis stated: ?It was an honor to share my experiences as a leader in the Civil Rights Movement with religious and community leaders of the greater Hartford area. As was often said during the Civil Rights Movement, our struggle was more than one day, one season or one year. It was more than one presidential term or one legislative session, it was the struggle of a lifetime. Each generation must continue to do its part to win some victory for humanity. The religious and community leaders of Hartford need to carry that message through their work in order to best serve and fight to bring Hartford closer to the Beloved Community.? ###
07.05.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 5, 2006 LARSON AWARDS MEDALS TO BRISTOL VETERAN HARTFORD ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today presented Francis F. Quigley of Bristol with medals for his services in World War II at the American Legion Hall in Bristol. ?It?s a privilege to present these medals to Corporal Quigley,? stated Larson. ?I commend him for his service in World War II and as part of the ?greatest generation? he helped build a stronger America. We could not have celebrated our nation?s independence yesterday without the efforts of Americans like Francis Quigley.? Corporal Quigley enlisted in the U.S. Army Air Forces on February 20, 1942, and separated on October 13, 1945. He attained the rank of Corporal as a Medical Technician while serving at the Headquarters 307th Bombardment Group, 13th Army Air Force. His unit was a crack heavy bomber group known as the ?Long Rangers.? Corporal Quigley received two Presidential Unit Citations, a Good Conduct Medal (Army), an Honorable Service Lapel Button, two Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medals, and a World War II Victory Medal. He completed 32 months of duty participating in the following campaigns: Western Pacific, Southern Philippines, New Guinea, Eastern Mandates, Central Pacific, China, Guadalcanal, Northern Solomon?s, Bismark, Archipelago, and Luzon. ###
06.28.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 28, 2006 LARSON: AMERICAN SENIORS NEED A PRESCRIPTION FOR CHANGEDemocratic plan would fix flaws in Medicare prescription drug program WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) joined House Democrats this week to introduce a ?Prescription for Change? to address the flaws in the Medicare prescription drug benefit, otherwise known as Medicare Part D. Several provisions are based on legislation introduced by Larson. ?Its time for Medicare to offer a prescription drug benefit that is simple, affordable, and reliable,? stated Larson. ?Our seniors shouldn?t have to worry about 44 different plans, donut holes, and deadlines. We?re turning them into refugees from their own healthcare system. These Democratic proposals would lower drug prices for seniors and give them peace of mind.? Larson has been a leading proponent in the House for allowing the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate directly with pharmaceutical companies to achieve discounts for Medicare beneficiaries. He has also introduced the Medicare Prescription Drug Flexibility for Seniors Act (H.R. 4410) to extend the initial enrollment period by 2 years, allow beneficiaries to change Medicare drug plans if the plan sponsor alters its formulary, and penalizes retirement health plans that provide misleading information about their coverage. The Democratic Prescription for Change would: Based on Larson?s Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act (H.R. 2685), require Medicare to leverage its bargaining power and negotiate lower prices with drug companies Help close the ?donut hole? by dedicating the cost savings from price negotiation toward ending the coverage gap Allow seniors to choose a plan administered directly by Medicare Extend the enrollment deadline to December 31st without penalty Stop drug plans from increasing co-payments and creating burdensome administrative hurdles during the year Ensure moderate-income Medicare beneficiaries get the drug coverage assistance they need by eliminating complex barriers ###
06.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 26, 2006 LARSON URGES PRESIDENT TO OPPOSE AMNESTY FOR IRAQI INSURGENTS WASHINGTON, DC
06.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 26, 2006 LARSON ANNOUNCES $21.9 MILLION GRANT FOR ROCKY HILL VETERANS? HOME HARTFORD ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced a grant for $21.9 million for construction of a new Veterans? Home building. These resources would procure a new, state-of-the-art, 125 bed, long-term adult care facility. ?Our veterans have given so much to our nation and it is time for us to give back to them,? said Larson. ?They deserve the most up-to-date facilities and the highest quality of care. I?m pleased to announce this grant which will provide Connecticut?s veterans with a facility worthy of their sacrifices. This new facility is especially important with more soldiers in need of treatment returning home each day from operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.? The grant was awarded as part of the State Home Program, a partnership between the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and the states to construct, acquire, or renovate nursing home, domiciliary, and/or adult day health facilities. States homes, like the one in Rocky Hill, are owned and operated by the state. This grant will provide 65% of the estimated cost of the project. Congressman Larson has continually voiced to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs his support for the facility and worked to ensure it was a top priority for the VA. This project is part of an aggressive capital improvement plan which included a $2,990,000 federal grant announced earlier this month to replace the facility?s water system, which was constructed in the 1930s and caused a major water main break in 2003. ###
06.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 26, 2006 LARSON DEMANDS VOTE ON IRAQ AMNESTY BILLRequests GOP leadership bring bill to floor for vote by July 4th WASHINGTON, DC
06.21.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 21, 2006 LARSON OPPOSES AMNESTY FOR IRAQI INSURGENTSIntroduces resolution opposing amnesty for Iraqis who kill Americans WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today introduced a resolution to declare that the United States opposes efforts by the Government of Iraq to grant amnesty to persons known to have attacked, kidnapped, wounded, or killed members of the Armed Forces or citizens of the United States. The resolution would also urge the President to immediately notify the Government of Iraq of the United States? position. The resolution came about after Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki discussed the possibility that the Iraqi government would grant amnesty to those who have killed American soldiers. One of the Prime Minister?s top aides stated that those who attacked Americans would be granted amnesty. While, the Prime Minister has denied these claims, no specific policy has been announced and reports still indicate that there are plans to grant amnesty to those who have killed Americans. Larson stated: ?More than 2,500 members of the Armed Forces have given their lives to bring peace and stability to the people of Iraq. With reports showing that 47 percent of Iraqis approve of the attacks on the United States forces, this resolution sends a clear message to the Iraqi people that those committing acts of violence against Americans will not be rewarded with amnesty. Members of the Armed Forces, journalists, humanitarian workers, and other Americans have been killed by those involved in the so-called resistance. Their sacrifices should not be minimized by granting amnesty to these insurgents. This resolution will carry the weight of law and the House must act immediately.? ###
06.14.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 14, 2006 LARSON DECRIES SHAM IRAQ DEBATE WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today admonished the Republican House Leadership for denying any Democratic resolution to be debated during consideration of the War in Iraq. Larson stated, ?Time and time again, the Republicans make it clear they control the House, Senate, and the Presidency. They mock our democracy with their Rovian strategy of denying any Democratic alternative to be debated. This is an effort to paper over the Administration?s failures and deem anyone who questions them as against the troops and unpatriotic. ?This is not debate between alternatives, its rubberstamping the President?s policies of preemption and unilateralism. The Republican leadership is only bringing forward a resolution to blur the lines between the war on terrorism and the preemptive, unilateral strike on Iraq. Democrats have supported efforts in Afghanistan and around the world to reduce the threat of terrorists. However, along with a growing number of Americans, we have questioned the policies that brought us to Iraq and the lack of a plan to get us out. ?This resolution is nothing more than a self-congratulatory gesture to coincide with President Bush?s visit to Iraq. Instead of merely speaking in patriotic rhetoric, Democrats have fought to ensure that our troops on the ground have up-armored vehicles and proper equipment. We have fought service cuts and fee increases for veterans and military retirees returning from Iraq. Democrats like Congressman Jack Murtha (D-PA) have offered a strategy to bring our troops home and pursue security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy. While we are supposed to be providing an example of democracy for Iraq, democracy is withering in the House because Democrats are consistently excluded from any policy decisions. ?The American people have been watching for years as the Republicans wrap themselves in the flag as they talk about Iraq. With the deaths of over two thousand American troops and injuries to thousands more, the American people demand more than a ?stay-the-course? resolution. They demand a serious and substantive debate on the war. They want their government to be accountable for its actions. They will not, and I will not, stand for this Republican attempt to praise themselves and paint their opponents as unpatriotic.? ###
05.25.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 25, 2006 LARSON HONORS THE LIFE OF CONGRESSMAN ROBERT N. GIAIMO WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today released the following statement on the late Congressman Robert N. Giaimo: ?Bob was a great friend and mentor. He served the 3rd Congressional District of Connecticut with dignity for twenty-two years during a tumultous time in our nation?s history. Even after leaving Congress over two decades ago, he continued his tradition of service. My condolences go out to Marion and the rest of Bob?s family. He will be missed.? ###
05.12.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 12, 2006 LARSON AND DELAURO BLAST REPUBLICAN CONGRESS FOR LACK OF SOLUTIONS TO RISING FUEL PRICESLawmakers offer comprehensive plan to address problem HARTFORD ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today outlined comprehensive solutions to the problem of soaring fuel costs. Larson was joined by Gene Guilford, Executive Director of the Independent Connecticut Petroleum Association (ICPA), Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, and U.S. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-3). ?Gene Guilford and former South Windsor mayor John Mitchell, a rock solid Republican, came to me with their concerns about fuel prices. Since then, their concerns have escalated. Today I?m calling for the roll back of tax breaks for the oil industry. This Administration?s motto should be ?leave no oil man behind? or with regards to our foreign policy, as Thomas Friedman has said, ?leave no mullah behind.?? Gene Guilford stated, ?Fuel prices in America are set, at first, on the New York Mercantile Exchange and are influenced by commodity exchanges worldwide. In December of 2000 the Congress repealed part of the authority of the federal agency responsible for the oversight of the NYMEX so that today, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission [CFTC] only sees about 25% of the buying and selling of energy commodities. Thanks to the leadership of Congressman Larson, we have not only shined light on this mistake, we're now working to correct it to make sure the American people can have total confidence in the market system that establishes energy prices for this country and every consumer.? Larson continued, ?In looking at this issue over the past year, I?ve seen that oil companies and executives are making record profits while consumers and small businesses are being hurt by soaring fuel costs. We?ve identified four main causes to this problem: market manipulation, price gouging, unneeded tax breaks for the oil industry, and dependence of foreign sources of energy. Today we?re here to offer comprehensive solutions.? ?Stopping gas price rises requires that the federal government be a real partner, not a paper tiger, as it is now,? Attorney General Richard Blumenthal said. ?Necessary steps are a federal prohibition against price gouging, repeal of tax breaks for Big Oil companies already swimming in cash, a tax on windfall profits with proceeds to consumers, and release of strategic petroleum supplies. The federal Department of Justice should be an ally to states in our ongoing investigations of Big Oil?s anti-competitive practices. There is no panacea or magic bullet, but we must do more as partners to crack down on Big Oil?s greed.? Larson outlined solutions to the following causes of high fuel prices: Market manipulation ? The PUMP Act (HR 3954), introduced by Rep. Bart Stupak (D-MI) would prevent market manipulation by increasing transparency and oversight of the oil futures market Price gouging ? The FREE Act (HR 3936), also introduced by Rep. Stupak (D-MI) would give the Federal Trade Commission authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy Unneeded tax breaks for the oil industry ? The Consumer Windfall Excess Oil Profits Protection Act (HR 4276), introduced by Reps. DeLauro and Larson, would impose a windfall profit tax on oil and natural gas. The Oil Subsidy Elimination Act (HR 5234), introduced by Rep. Larson, would rollback nearly $7 billion in federal tax breaks for the oil industry. The Restore a Rational Tax Rate on Petroleum Production Act (HR 5218), introduced by Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA), would eliminate an unneeded manufacturing tax deduction for the oil industry. Dependence on foreign sources of energy ? The House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, co-chaired by Rep. Larson, is promoting the development of renewable and efficient alternative energy technologies. Congresswoman DeLauro stated, ?For all the challenges we face regarding oil prices, the Congress has refused to hold hearings or provide any meaningful oversight of the powerful oil industry," said DeLauro. "That may pass for business as usual in the House of Representatives these days ? but it does not make it right. In our view, Congress should never cede its Constitutional authorities ? particularly to an Administration that has shown zero interest in challenging its political friends.? Larson concluded, ?We?re here today because of the concerns that Gene Guilford and John Mitchell brought to my attention back in February 2005. Unfortunately, no action has occurred in Congress since then and none of the bills we?ve proposed have been brought to the House for a vote. I appreciate the attention Mr. Guilford, Attorney General Blumenthal, and Congresswoman DeLauro have given to this issue and I can assure you we will continue to work on behalf of Connecticut?s consumers.? ###
05.04.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 4, 2006 LARSON OFFERS MOTION TO ELIMINATE OIL INDUSTRY TAX GIVEAWAYS WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Representative John B. Larson (CT-01) last evening offered a motion to instruct the conferees on H.R. 4297, the Tax Reconciliation Act, to accept three bipartisan Senate provisions that would remove subsidies and close loopholes for large integrated oil companies. The motion failed by a vote of 197 to 224. The bipartisan provisions, which passed the Senate virtually unanimously, would rollback over $5.4 billion in tax incentives for the oil industry. Specifically, they would: eliminate the Last In, First Out (LIFO) accounting method for the inventory profits of big oil. Closing this loophole will save $4.3 billion over 10 years; prohibit oil companies from writing off the costs associated with oil and gas exploration, which would save $292 million over 10 years, and; limit the foreign tax credit that companies receive for the taxes they pay to oil producing countries, for a savings of $776 million over 10 years. The motion would also instruct House conferees to strike the extension of the capital gains and dividend tax cuts, which will save $50 billion over 10 years. Larson recently introduced the Oil Subsidy Elimination Act (H.R. 5234) to repeal these same tax breaks for oil companies. He has also cosponsored the Federal Response to Energy Emergencies (FREE) Act, introduced by Representative Bart Stupak (D-MI), which would provide the Federal Trade Commission with the explicit authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy. Additionally, Larson is an original cosponsor of Stupak?s Prevent Unfair Manipulation of Prices (PUMP) Act to improve transparency and oversight of oil futures speculation. Finally, Larson previously joined with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) to introduce the Consumer Windfall Excess Oil Profits Protection Act of 2005 (H.R. 4276) to impose a windfall tax on oil profits. ?As oil companies are bringing in record profits and oil executives receiving obscene salaries and retirement packages, the price of oil has risen over $70 a barrel and the price of gas is over $3 a gallon,? stated Larson. ?The correlation between the net income of oil companies tripling since 2002 and spiraling costs to consumers is not lost on the average American. The motion I offered would have rolled back unneeded tax giveaways to the oil industry so the federal government could use that money to promote alternative sources of energy or reinvest in low-income energy assistance.? A motion to instruct conferees is a formal action taken by the House urging its conferees to uphold a particular position on a bill in a conference committee. A conference committee is comprised of members of the House and Senate who meet to reconcile the differences in a bill that has passed the House and Senate without different language. ###
05.01.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 1, 2006 LARSON STATEMENT ON THIRD ANNIVERSARY OF ?MISSION ACCOMPLISHED? STUNT WASHINGTON, DC ? Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today released the following statement on the third anniversary of President Bush?s declaration that the mission had been accomplished in Iraq: ?Three years ago today, the President declared ?Mission Accomplished? in Iraq. Unfortunately, the President still has not leveled with the American people, Congress, and especially the Reservists and National Guard who have been redeployed two or three times and don?t know when their mission will end. Since the President?s announcement three years ago, 2,261 of our men and women in uniform have died ? including 28 from Connecticut ? and the total cost of the war is approaching $500 billion. Yet, daily attacks against our troops and the dramatic rise in global terror attacks make it clear that our continued presence in Iraq is endangering American lives. ?I would like to renew the call I?ve made for the last three years. This war cannot be won with slogans. The President needs to level with our troops and the American people about the war, what our mission is, how long it will take, and what it will cost. ?The recent selection of an Iraqi prime minister to lead the new government is a sign of progress made with the aid and sacrifices of our troops. However, the time has come for Iraq to start progressing under its own power. I reiterate my support for Congressman John Murtha (D-PA) and his plan calling for a redeployment of troops at the earliest practicable time, a quick-reaction force and an over-the-horizon presence of Marines, and the pursuit of security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy.? ###
04.27.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 27, 2006 LARSON INTRODUCES BILL TO REPEAL TAX GIVEAWAYS TO OIL INDUSTRY WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today introduced legislation to eliminate unnecessary tax breaks for oil companies in response to record industry profits, excessive executive compensation, and soaring gas prices. The Oil Subsidy Elimination Act of 2006 would eliminate nearly $7 billion worth of these unneeded tax breaks and incentives for the oil industry by: Closing a $4.3 billion accounting loophole that allows oil companies to avoid taxes on the profits they earn on their Last In, First Out (LIFO) inventories; Limiting the foreign tax credit that companies receive for taxes they pay to oil producing countries abroad in lieu of royalties; and, Repealing $1.5 billion worth of tax incentives provided to oil companies in the Energy Policy Act, including denying large oil companies preferential tax treatment for oil exploration costs ? a provision which President Bush himself has proposed eliminating. ?The hard truth is that with rising gas prices, Americans are getting hit twice: once at the pump and once again with their tax dollars,? said Larson. ?Even while oil companies keep bringing in quarter after quarter of record-breaking profits, the Republican-controlled Congress has not hesitated to provide them with billions of dollars worth of unneeded tax incentives and loopholes. These tax breaks need to be repealed so that money can be put back into the Low Income Heating and Emergency Assistance Program or alternative energy sources like fuel cells.? The legislation was cosponsored by Representatives Jim McDermott (D-WA), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Tom Allen (D-ME), Darlene Hooley (D-OR), and Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), and Rosa DeLauro (D-CT). The Oil Subsidy Elimination Act is the latest in a series of measures that Larson is promoting to alleviate high energy prices. Larson supports the Federal Response to Energy Emergencies (FREE) Act, introduced by Representative Bart Stupak (D-MI), which would provide the Federal Trade Commission with the explicit authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy. In addition, Larson is an original cosponsor of Stupak?s Prevent Unfair Manipulation of Prices (PUMP) Act to improve transparency and oversight of oil futures speculation. Since March 2005, Larson has worked to investigate the extent to which energy traders are manipulating the price of the role that energy commodities traders are playing in rising energy costs. At his urging, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) is currently conducting an examination of the federal government?s oversight of energy futures trading. Larson also announced that he is supporting legislation that Representative Jim McDermott (D-WA) is introducing today to eliminate a manufacturing tax deduction enacted in 2004 that lowered taxes for the oil industry. Enacted as part of legislation to repeal a foreign trade subsidy, recent reports have shown that oil companies are receiving millions of dollars as a result of this unneeded tax cut. Conoco Philips, for example, received $106 million from this tax benefit in 2005. The cost of this benefit is expected to triple by 2010 as it is fully phased in. Finally, Larson previously joined with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) to introduce the Consumer Windfall Excess Oil Profits Protection Act of 2005 (H.R. 4276) to impose a windfall tax on oil profits. The proceeds from these profits would be used to fund the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provides home heating assistance to low-income families, and for veteran's medical care provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs. ?My Democratic colleagues and I are offering solutions to the everyday problems Americans are facing, like paying for the price of gas and heating and cooling their homes. Instead of leaving no oil executive behind, Congress should worry about leaving $3 a gallon gas prices behind,? concluded Larson. ###
04.26.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 26, 2006 DEMOCRATIC VICE CHAIR PROMOTES PACKAGE OF ENERGY PRICE LEGISLATION WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, today advocated for the passage of three Democratic bills to reduce energy prices for consumers. Larson is a cosponsor of the Federal Response to Energy Emergencies Act (H.R. 3936), which would provide the Federal Trade Commission with the explicit authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy. Over 100 House members, including Larson, have signed a discharge petition which would bring the bill to the floor for immediate consideration. The signatures of a majority of the House, 218 members, are needed for the petition to succeed.Larson will also cosponsor the Prevent Unfair Manipulation of Prices (PUMP) Act when it is introduced this week by Representative Bart Stupak (D-MI). The bill would improve transparency and oversight of oil futures speculation, which currently uses fear, speculation, and greed to artificially set the price of oil.Finally, Larson will introduce legislation to roll back the tax cuts that were given to the oil industry so that money can better be invested in programs like the Low Income Heating and Energy Assistance Program and alternative energy sources like fuel cells.?Democrats are offering real solutions to this crisis,? stated Larson. ?Instead of passing tax cuts for oil companies and oil executives, we should be passing these three bills to provide real relief to consumers struggling with gas prices over $3 a gallon.? ###
04.25.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 25, 2006 LARSON WELCOMES PRESIDENT TO GAS PRICE DEBATE WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement today in response to President Bush?s speech before the Renewable Fuels Association calling for the federal government to look into the illegal manipulation of gas prices:?I?m glad the President has finally recognized that Americans are feeling the squeeze at the gas pump. For months, the President and the Republican-controlled Congress have been sitting by idly, worrying about how to give oil executives their next big tax break. Meanwhile, families in Connecticut have been struggling with dramatic increases in the cost of filling up their gas tanks and heating and cooling their homes.?However, I?ve been calling for an investigation into gas price manipulation since John Mitchell, an oil dealer and former Republican mayor of South Windsor, came to me in February of 2005 with his concerns that his customers were being hurt by the artificial, speculative, and false means be which oil prices were being determined.?I have worked with my Democratic colleagues to try to end the restrictive practice of ?zone pricing,? which forces gas stations to purchase their supply from a single wholesaler rather than shopping around for the best price. Additionally, I have cosponsored the Anti-Price Gouging Act (H.R. 3681) to make it illegal to drastically and baselessly raise the price of oil and other critical supplies during times of national disaster. ?Also, I have cosponsored the Federal Response to Energy Emergencies Act (H.R. 3936) to give the Federal Trade Commission the explicit authority to investigate and punish those who artificially inflate the price of energy. The House Republican majority has repeatedly blocked this legislation when Democrats have tried to offer it on the floor of the House.?Finally, after hearing news last fall of record profits at Exxon Mobil alongside news of gas shortages caused by Hurricane Katrina, I joined with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) to introduce the Consumer Windfall Excess Oil Profits Protection Act of 2005 (H.R. 4276) which would impose a windfall profit tax on oil and natural gas. The proceeds from these profits would be used to fund the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), which provides home heating assistance to low-income families, and for veteran?s medical care provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs. ?As you can see, my fellow Democrats and I have been trying to address this issue for over a year. Its an issue that affects families each and every day. Unfortunately, the President today offered the same, tired proposals: an investigation that won?t be acted upon, suspension of environmental rules, and drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Instead, we should be focusing on long-term, alternative energy sources which will provide clean, domestically-produced fuels. America has the resources to do this and Connecticut is leading the way in fuel cell development.?Again, I appreciate the President joining the debate on gas prices. Hopefully, he and the Republican-controlled Congress will do more than just talk about the issue, they will work with Democrats to find solutions. Instead of leaving no oil executive behind, we should be working to put $3 a gallon gas prices behind us.? ###
04.24.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 24, 2006 LARSON CALLS FOR ACTION ON SOARING FUEL PRICES HARTFORD, CT ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement with regard to the cost of oil today reaching a record high on Wall Street of over $75 a barrel and the national average price at the pump climbing to $2.86 cents a gallon, up over sixty cents from this time last year. ?This outrageous burden on the American public has the tacit support of the Administration and Republican Congress who in the midst of this crisis have done nothing but give tax cuts for companies that have accumulated record profits while everyday citizens pay the costs. Oil companies have received $ 2.6 billion in tax breaks from the Administration and Republican Congress; oil company executives have redefined the meaning of greed. Millions of Americans are struggling more then ever to pay for fuel. American consumers deserve more from their Government than gilding the special few. The continued increase in oil prices is an unacceptable burden on the American people and so is the inaction of the Republican controlled Congress. ?In 2005, Exxon Mobil ? the nation?s largest oil company ? earned a net income of $36.1 billion, up 31 percent from the year before. In the fourth quarter of 2005 alone, Exxon earned $10 billion ? up from the previous record of $9.92 billion, set by Exxon in the third quarter of 2005. ?Ironically, while high energy prices are squeezing the American middle class, oil executives are receiving record compensation and retirement packages. For example, the retiring chairman of Exxon Mobil, Lee Raymond, received a $400 million retirement package while the elderly must make choices between heating their homes, having a nutritional meal, or being able to pay for their medications. ?Over seven months ago I introduced the Consumer Windfall Excess Oil Profits Protection Act (H.R. 4276) to impose a profit tax on oil and natural gas. I am an original co-sponsor of Anti-Price Gouging Act (H.R. 3681) which would make it illegal to drastically and baselessly raise the price of oil and other critical supplies during times of national disaster. ?These pieces of legislation are sensible actions for Congress to take to deal, in the short term, with rising fuel prices. It is time for Republicans to stop rewarding special interests, who fill their campaign coffers and provide for the citizens we are sworn to serve! ?Congress needs to take immediate action now not only to provide short term energy relief to hard working Americans, but to develop long terms solutions that will free our nation from our dependence on foreign sources of oil and secure an innovative and independent energy future for our nation.? ###
04.19.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 19, 2006 LARSON: BUDGET MUST INCLUDE FUNDING FOR HOUSINGMeets with local housing authority directors to discuss budget cuts HARTFORD, CT ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson today met with local housing authority directors to discuss the impact of federal budget cuts on public housing in the Greater Hartford area. ?Today I was told the real impact these proposed budget cuts will have on housing in our community,? stated Larson. ?And where is the money being sent that could prevent these cuts? To tax cuts for the weathiest Americans, to the mismanaged war in Iraq, and to the pharmaceutical companies under the guise of a Medicare prescription drug program. A budget is statement of the government?s priorities and any budget that passes through Congress must include funding to ensure that America?s housing needs are met.? Among other cuts, the President?s Fiscal Year 2007 budget rescinds the $99 million in funding that was provided in Fiscal Year 2006 for HOPE VI rehabilitation of distressed public housing. As can be seen by the Dutch Point Colony project in Hartford, HOPE VI has successfully transformed severely distressed public housing projects into vibrant mixed-income neighborhoods. Additionally, the budget cuts the Public Housing Capital Fund by ten percent. This program provides funding for local public housing authorities for capital repairs and improvements to their housing stock. It also freezes funding for the Public Housing Operating Fund, which local housing authorities use to cover operating costs not covered by rental income. When funding falls short of operating costs, local housing authorities often have no choice but to leave some of their units unfilled, thereby decreasing the affordable housing supply. Finally, the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program is cut completely from the President?s budget. This successful program allows states and municipalities to target federal formula grants and other financial assistance toward improving housing and economic conditions in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. ?Because of these cuts and new regulations I will have to make some tough choices on which services, programs, and staff that I have to cut here in East Hartford,? said East Hartford Housing Authority Director Terry Madigan. ?We have been doing more with less over the past dacade and there is no more less to give.? Robert Counihan of the East Hartford Housing Authority and President of CONN-NAHRO (The National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials) stated, ?In order to meet HUD?s new demands on regulations along with cuts for FY 2006 and FY 2007, our housing authority will be forced to cut all social service programs and cut back on maintenance services to tenants.? Ivan Pour, Glastonbury Housing Authority Director and Vice President for Housing and Legislation of CONN-NAHRO stated, ?HUD needs to not level as much criticism towards housing authorities but instead distribute the funding necessary so that we can do our jobs.? ?The President and the Republican-controlled Congress must reassess their priorities and provide greater funding for housing in the budget. Ensuring that low-income families have a roof over their heads is a moral obligation that we must continue,? concluded Larson. ###
04.18.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 18, 2006 LARSON APPALLED BY ACTS OF HATE IN WEST HARTFORD HARTFORD, CT- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today released the following statement with regards to the vandalization of the Holocaust memorial outside Chabad House on Albany Avenue in West Hartford: ?I join the many others in deploring this terrible situation. This scene of hatred does not reflect the values of the West Hartford community and I hope that those who are responsible are found quickly and brought to justice. I have long been a proponent of legislation that addresses hate crimes and will continue to fight in the U.S. Congress for comprehensive penalties to reinforce my position that these crimes must not be allowed to go unpunished. ?Chabad stands for wisdom, comprehension, and knowledge, three things we need as we deal with the aftermath of this hate crime.? ###
04.06.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 6, 2006 LARSON OBJECTS TO BUDGET CUTS IN EDUCATION WASHINGTON D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today released the following statement denouncing cuts to education funding in the Republican budget.?The budget we will be debating this week gives further credence to the lawsuit filed by Attorney General Richard Blumenthal challenging No Child Left Behind and its under-funded mandates,? said Larson. ?It cuts $45.3 billion over the next five years. This means the federal government will continue to underfund No Child Left Behind at $15 billion below its authorized level while eliminating vital education programs. It also decreases the federal contribution for special education programs that are mandated by the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).??Since its inception No Child Left Behind has been underfunded and the federal government has never come close to fulfilling its promise of funding forty percent of IDEA. Our states and municipalities are buckling under the financial pressure of these under-funded mandates. They are being forced to choose between cutting school programs or raising local taxes. There isn?t a community in my district that doesn?t struggle under this underfunded mandate.?A budget is a moral document and this budget highlights the priorities of the Republican leadership ? cutting more taxes for the wealthy while cutting aid to vital education programs for all our children. Despite the protests from moderate elements of their party, the misguided views of the most conservative Republicans always shape the final legislation that the House votes on. When you add up the cuts to education, homeland security, and veterans in this budget with the cost of prosecuting a war in the Middle East and the proposed tax breaks for the rich, you get a budget that is out of sync with the values and priorities of the American people. Enough is enough.? ###
04.03.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 3, 2006 DeLauro, Larson: Health Savings Accounts Will Not Solve National Health Care CrisisLawmakers argue for serious discussion on rising prescription drug costs, flaws in Medicare Part D WASHINGTON, D.C. ? In a letter to President Bush, Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (Conn.-3) and Congressman John B. Larson (Conn.-1) today said that health savings accounts would do nothing to solve the national health care crisis. The lawmakers instead argued that a serious discussion was needed on how to fix the health care system in America, including the issue of rising prescription drug prices and the flawed Medicare prescription drug program. Currently, 46 million Americans ? nearly 400,000 of those in Connecticut ? have no health insurance. The president is scheduled to travel to Connecticut later this week to tout his proposal for health savings accounts. ?Health care is an issue of vital concern to the people of Connecticut and to all Americans, and our constituents care deeply about having access to affordable health care. Unfortunately, health savings accounts are not the answer,? wrote the lawmakers. ?We opposed the creation of health savings accounts because they would isolate less healthy, and likely older, individuals into higher-cost plans ? creating an unfair playing field for these individuals who will likely face higher premiums. Meanwhile, HSAs seem to be geared as a tax shelter for the most affluent families and individuals. ?Instead of discussing HSAs, which will not benefit the majority of Americans, we should be discussing the rising costs of prescription drugs and the deeply flawed Medicare Part D benefit. As the deadline to sign up for a Medicare Part D plan draws near, we remain concerned about the numerous problems pharmacists and beneficiaries have faced during the program?s implementation.?The full text of the letter follows. Dear Mr. President:Thank you for inviting us to join you in Bridgeport, CT on April 5, 2006 to discuss health savings accounts. Unfortunately, scheduling conflicts will not allow us to participate. As you know, health care is an issue of vital concern to the people of Connecticut and to all Americans, and our constituents care deeply about having access to affordable health care. Unfortunately, health savings accounts are not the answer. Instead, they will end up costing consumers more money and providing less health care. In fact, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley has already said that HSAs are going nowhere in the Senate. We encourage you to consider real solutions to the health care crisis that will reduce the number of uninsured people in this country and provide accessible, affordable health insurance to all Americans. In short, our view is that HSAs are wealth-care, not health care.While you are aware that we opposed the creation of health savings accounts in 2003, we look forward to engaging with you on solutions to expand access to health insurance. We opposed the creation of health savings accounts because they would isolate less healthy, and likely older, individuals into higher-cost plans -- creating an unfair playing field for these individuals who will likely face higher premiums. Meanwhile, HSAs seem to be geared as a tax shelter for the most affluent families and individuals. These concerns were confirmed by a Government Accountability Office report published in January 2006. The report found that members of the Federal Employee Health Benefits Plan who enrolled in high-deductible health plans coupled with HSAs tended to be younger and earned higher federal salaries. Instead of discussing HSAs, which will not benefit the majority of Americans, we should be discussing the rising costs of prescription drugs and the deeply flawed Medicare Part D benefit. As the deadline to sign up for a Medicare Part D plan draws near, we remain concerned about the numerous problems pharmacists and beneficiaries have faced during the program?s implementation. Connecticut, as well as most other states, has reimbursed pharmacists for the costs they have incurred under this federal program, and the state awaits reimbursement for this expenditure. We maintain that permitting drug price negotiations and reimportation would vastly improve this new program for beneficiaries and make prescription drugs more affordable for our constituents. We will continue to work at improving the Medicare Part D plan so that it truly serves the needs of Medicare beneficiaries. Seniors want the drugs they need at a price they can afford.Again, thank you for your gracious invitation and we look forward to working with you. Mr. President, the health care crisis is upon us ? let us work on a bipartisan solution to address rising prescription drug costs and the millions of uninsured in this country. Sincerely, ROSA L. DELAURO JOHN B. LARSON ###
03.24.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 24, 2006 Sikorsky Strike Must End, Delegation Tells OfficialsBlack Hawk procurement, Air Force competition at stake with dispute exceeding one-month period WASHINGTON, D.C. ? In a letter to Sikorsky company and union officials, the Connecticut Congressional delegation today urged both parties to go back to the bargaining table and not leave until a compromise has been reached. The members expressed their concern over the strike?s duration and the impact it is having on defense manufacturing and Sikorsky?s competitiveness. The strike began on February 19 and several attempts to resume negotiations have broken down. The letter was spearheaded by Congresswoman Rosa L. DeLauro (Conn.-3), whose district is home to Sikorsky?s main Connecticut facility. ?Sikorsky workers are among the most-skilled in the country, and our men and women in uniform depend upon the outstanding products that the company's workers construct,? wrote the lawmakers. ?We are concerned, however, that it may be more difficult to persuade our colleagues of the need to increase Black Hawk procurement above the President?s budget request if the strike continues without prospect of a resolution. We also are worried that Sikorsky?s competitors may raise the issue of a prolonged strike with the Air Force in an effort to gain an advantage in the competition for the Air Force?s Search and Rescue helicopter contract ? a competition that we all believe Sikorsky should win.? The full text of the letter follows. March 24, 2006Mr. Jeff Pino President Sikorsky Aircraft 6900 Main Street Stratford, CT 06614-1385 Mr. Rocco CaloSecretary-TreasurerTeamsters Local 1150150 Garfield Avenue Stratford, CT 06615-7101 Dear Jeff and Rocco: We write to express our continuing concern about the ongoing strike at Sikorsky Aircraft. As this strike drags into its second month, we are deeply troubled that there is still no apparent progress. We ask that all parties come back to the bargaining table immediately to resolve this dispute and agree upon a new contract. Sikorsky workers are among the most-skilled in the country, and our men and women in uniform depend upon the outstanding products that the company's workers construct. Today, the company faces record amounts of work orders for military and commercial helicopter and parts production ? more than $7.5 billion in pending business. This amount that is likely to increase over the course of this year because the President's Fiscal Year 2007 budget request includes additional orders for 81 Black Hawk helicopters and their variants.We are concerned, however, that it may be more difficult to persuade our colleagues of the need to increase Black Hawk procurement above the President?s budget request if the strike continues without prospect of a resolution. We also are worried that Sikorsky?s competitors may raise the issue of a prolonged strike with the Air Force in an effort to gain an advantage in the competition for the Air Force?s Search and Rescue helicopter contract ? a competition that we all believe Sikorsky should win. We know that health care remains the disputed issue, but we believe that finding common ground on this issue is possible. We therefore urge both sides to immediately restart the bargaining process so that you may achieve a resolution in this critical area that is both fair to Sikorsky?s highly-skilled workers and reasonable for the company. Thank you for your assistance with this matter. Please let us know if our offices may be of assistance to you during your discussions. Sincerely, ROSA L. DELAURO CHRISTOPHER DODDNANCY L. JOHNSON JOSEPH LIEBERMANCHRISTOPHER SHAYS JOHN B. LARSONROB SIMMONS cc: Mr. George David, President and CEO of UTCMr. Harvey Jackson, President of Teamsters Local 1150 ###
03.15.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 15, 2006 LARSON SUPPORTS INCREASED ACCOUNTABILITY FOR AMERICA WASHINGTON, D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today expressed disappointment that the Republican House majority voted to refuse debate on two Democratic proposals to increase accountability on Iraqi contracts, Katrina contracts, and foreign takeovers. ?This is another example of the Republican majority failing to provide for debate on serious issues in the people?s House,? stated Larson. ?These Democratic proposals deserved an up or down vote.? The House voted 224 to 192 to close debate on the War and Hurricane Supplemental Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2006 (H.R. 4939). This procedural move blocked two Democratic amendments from being offered that would have promoted government accountability. The first amendment, proposed by Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), would have created a Select Congressional Committee ? based on the Truman Committee that existed from 1941 to 1948 during World War II ? to investigate possible waste, fraud and abuse in government contracts in Iraq and in Katrina recovery and reconstruction. ?Evidence already suggests the need for a select committee to investigate fraud, abuse, and waste in the awarding of contracts in Iraq and for Katrina relief and reconstruction. Pentagon auditors have already questioned $1.4 million under Halliburton?s largest Iraqi contracts. Meanwhile, Katrina recovery and reconstruction contracts are being awarded through a no-bid or limited-bid process,? said Larson. The second amendment, proposed by Rep. Martin Olav Sabo (D-MN) would have strengthened how our government reviews foreign takeovers by mandating a review of all foreign transactions raising national security concerns, requiring the President to make an up or down determination and notify Congress, and expediting Congressional consideration of actions. ?The Dubai Port World deal showed that the actions of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) need to be taken out of the shadows and brought into the light. Congress should not be rubber-stamping the Administration?s backroom deals, it should be reviewing them thoroughly,? stated Larson. ###
03.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 13, 2006 Connecticut Delegation Calls for FEMA Emergency Assistance to Connecticut WASHINGTON ? Late last week, the Connecticut Congressional delegation called on President Bush to support Governor M. Jodi Rell?s request for the Federal Emergency Management Agency to declare a state of emergency for the entire state of Connecticut to cope with the aftermath of severe winter storms. In a letter to Bush, Connecticut Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT) and Joe Lieberman (D-CT), and Representatives Nancy Johnson (R-CT), Christopher Shays (R-CT), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), John Larson (D-CT) and Rob Simmons (R-CT) asked the President to push for FEMA Emergency Assistance in order to help with the estimated $15 million State and municipal cleanup costs associated with the severe February winter storms. The full text of the letter is below. March 10, 2006 The Honorable George W. BushPresident of the United StatesThe White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, DC 20500Dear President Bush:We are writing in support of a request submitted by Connecticut Governor M. Jodi Rell that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declare an emergency for the entire State of Connecticut as a result of significant snowfall experienced last month. A severe winter storm caused significant snowfall across Connecticut between February 11-12, 2006. Numerous locations across Connecticut?s eight counties (Fairfield, Hartford, Litchfield, Middlesex, New Haven, New London, Tolland, and Windham) experienced ?record? or ?near record? snowfall amounts under criteria promulgated by FEMA. The storm prompted Governor Rell to activate the State Emergency Operations Center on the morning of February 12th. During the two-day event highway travel was strongly discouraged, public transit services were curtailed, several municipal on-street parking bans were implemented, and numerous weekend activities were canceled. The State's largest commercial airport, Bradley International, was closed between noon and 3:30 p.m. on February 12; dozens of flights were canceled or delayed because of the snowfall. Based on similar events in the past, Governor Rell has estimated that the State and municipal cleanup costs associated with this storm could exceed $15 million ? an amount that will adversely impact or cripple State and municipal snow removal and cleanup budgets for the rest of the season. Therefore, acting in accordance with public law, Governor Rell has requested FEMA Emergency Assistance for all eight counties within the State of Connecticut. We strongly support Governor Rell?s request and thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, CHRISTOPHER J. DODDUnited States Senator JOSEPH I. LIEBERMANUnited States Senator NANCY JOHNSONMember of Congress CHRISTOPHER SHAYS Member of Congress ROSA DELAUROMember of Congress JOHN LARSONMember of Congress ROB SIMMONSMember of Congress ###
03.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 13, 2006 LARSON URGES RESOLUTION OF VIEQUES CLAIMS WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today urged action to remedy the damages done to the island of Vieques, Puerto Rico. Larson stated: ?During its six decades of bombing Vieques, the Navy?s use of live ordinance containing heavy metals and chemical compounds caused damage to the island and major health problems for its residents. Studies have shown that the people of Vieques suffer from cancer and other diseases at much higher rates than those elsewhere in Puerto Rico. ?The residents of Vieques have just claims pending before the Department of the Navy. A speedy and fair resolution of these claims will allow the people of Vieques to move on with their lives and protect their health from further damage. I also support a prompt and full cleanup and decontamination of the island. The people of Vieques have paid a high price for the military weapons testing that has gone on there. As American citizens, they deserve better,? said Larson. Beginning in the 1940s, Vieques was used for naval gunfire support and air-to-ground ordnance training. Larson became a vocal opponent of continued live-fire training on the island when a Navy contract employee was accidentally killed in 1999. Larson visited the island in 2000 to gain first hand knowledge of life there and the complications that arose from the testing exercises conducted by the military. He also wrote to Presidents Clinton and George W. Bush several times asking that military training on the small island be ended. The Navy ceased all military operations on May 1, 2003. ###
03.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 13, 2006 HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP CALL FOR 100% SCANNING OF SHIPPING CONTAINERS WASHINGTON, DC? At a press conference this morning, House Democratic Leadership gathered to support Democratic-sponsored legislation to scan all shipping containers bound for the U.S. The legislation, ?Sail Only if Scanned (S.O.S.) Act,? was introduced by Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Ranking Democrat on the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, James Oberstar (D-Minn.). ?Republicans tried to look tough on security by voting to block the Dubai deal in committee last week, but that does not hide the fact that they have refused to support Democratic proposals to do what is necessary to protect our ports.? said Nancy Pelosi, Minority Leader ?Democrats have a plan to address existing security weaknesses at our ports and establish a comprehensive strategy for homeland security." ?Democrats have been leading the effort to strengthen America?s ports for years in Committee and on the House floor with unwavering commitment, despite continually being defeated by party-line votes,? said Steny Hoyer, Minority Whip. ?Today we have voiced our support for legislation introduced by Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY) and Rep. Jim Oberstar (D-MN) that will lead to 100 percent screening of the cargo that comes into our ports. In a time of unprecedented threats to America's security, we can accept nothing less." ?The Dubai ports deal finally brought to America?s attention, the dangerous gaps in our nation?s port and transportation security systems,? said James E. Clyburn, Chairman of the Democratic Caucus. ?These gaps are a direct consequence of a Republican-led rubber stamp Congress, and now the Republicans are trying to play catch-up.? ?"We're in a race between catastrophe and cooperation,? said John B. Larson, Democratic Caucus Vice Chair. ?As long as Republicans fail to cooperate with us, America?s ports remain at risk." ?Port security today is in worse condition than aviation security was on 9/11,? said Rep. James Oberstar (D-Minn.), Ranking Democrat on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ?It is time for Congress to act. We must have effective port security standards and procedures in place before a terrorist uses the marine transportation system as a stealth missile.? ?The Republicans have been missing the boat on the issue of port security since 9/11,? said Rep. Bennie Thompson (D-Miss.), Ranking Democrat on House Homeland Security. ?They have had several opportunities over the past few years to address the vulnerabilities of our nation?s ports, but instead they?ve chosen to ignore them. It is disappointing that it has taken the Dubai scandal to force them to finally take this issue seriously.? ?No container should be placed on a ship bound for the United States unless it has been screened for nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons,? Congressman Nadler said. ?The Bush Administration has refused to act on this front, and appears content to screen less than 5 percent of the 11 million shipping containers that enter this country every year. That?s appalling.? Congressmen Jerry Nadler and Jim Oberstar have introduced the S.O.S. Act which would require 100 percent of the containers entering our ports, instead of the current 6 percent, to be screened long before they reach our shores. The bill mandates that: All containers be scanned using the best-available technology, including scanning for radiation and density, before they are loaded onto a ship destined for the United States; Scans be reviewed by American security personnel before the container is loaded; and Containers be sealed with a device that indicates tampering, and would notify U.S. officials of a breach before the container enters the Exclusive Economic Zone of the United States. In addition, Democrats have proposed that every port agreement with a foreign owner be subjected to a 45-day review and that there be an up-or-down vote in both Houses of Congress before the agreement can proceed. ###
03.08.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 8, 2006 LARSON RETURNS FROM GULF COAST TOURJoins Democratic Leaders in Calling for Answers and Accountability WASHINGTON, DC?U.S. Congressman John B. Larson today joined fellow House Democratic leaders in urging the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to expand and expedite their review of contracts awarded for the Katrina recovery effort. Larson was a part of a bipartisan Congressional delegation tour of the Gulf Coast that lasted from March 2 ? 4, 2006. Democrats returning from the tour were alarmed by the lack of progress toward the response and recovery effort.Larson stated: ?The federal government has a moral responsibility to ensure that these Americans have a chance to rebuild their lives. We must let the people of the Gulf Coast know that we will not forget them.?Democrats asked for answers and accountability in a letter to GAO signed by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-MD), House Democratic Caucus Chairman James E. Clyburn (D-SC), Caucus Vice Chair John B. Larson (D-CT), Ranking Democrat on the Government Reform Committee Henry Waxman (D-CA), and Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee Bennie Thompson (D-MS). Following is the text of the letter:March 8, 2006The Honorable David WalkerComptroller GeneralU.S. Government Accountability OfficeWashington, D.C. Dear Comptroller General Walker:From March 2-4, 2006, many of us went on a bipartisan Congressional Delegation tour of the Gulf Coast to survey the region?s recovery from Hurricane Katrina. The three-day tour revealed a battered landscape littered with mounds of debris, destroyed infrastructure, and few public services. Little progress appears to have been made toward recovery and rebuilding along the Gulf in the six months since Hurricane Katrina made landfall. This lack of progress is particularly troubling considering the $62 billion that Congress has appropriated to provide the 1.8 million displaced residents temporary relief and long-term assistance to begin the long process of rebuilding their lives and redeveloping the areas devastated by the storm. The extraordinary devastation caused by Katrina should have called forth an equally extraordinary response. But the lack of progress toward recovery in the Gulf raises fundamental questions about the competence of the federal response. We are particularly concerned by the evident waste of funds through improper and inefficient contracting decisions. The federal response to Hurricane Katrina depended heavily on the use of private contractors to conduct routine relief and recovery activities such as furnishing and delivering ice, water, food and other supplies, removing debris, providing temporary coverings for roofs and arranging temporary housing. The absence of Administration oversight of contracting appears to have permitted grossly wasteful and inefficient spending to continue, even as urgent needs of Gulf Coast communities remain unmet. From investigations conducted by inspectors general, Congressional committees, and the GAO, we know that the government has spent:? $3 million for 4,000 base camp beds that were never used; ? $10 million to renovate rooms in a military barracks that were used to house only 6 people; ? $236 million to lease cruise ships that were never fully occupied by evacuees, and ? $857 million for 25,000 manufactured homes for which there are current deployment plans for only 5,000. These examples alone depict a breakdown in the normal process of disaster recovery. They are further exacerbated by recent findings by the President?s Council on Integrity and Efficiency (PCIE) that nearly 600 Katrina related contracts have been awarded on a no-bid /sole source basis. Meanwhile, Gulf Coast communities lack adequate housing and public infrastructure so that residents may return and rebuild. That is unacceptable.We understand that GAO is reviewing the efficiency of government contracting for the Katrina recovery effort. Having witnessed firsthand the devastation along the Gulf and the slow rate of recovery and rebuilding progress, we request that you expedite your review in this area and report your findings to Congress as quickly as possible. A full accounting of the use of no-bid awards and irregular contracting practices will help our efforts to rein in waste and inefficiency and jump start the stalled rebuilding and recovery effort.We further ask that the GAO examine how the Administration was caught so unprepared to efficiently contract for Katrina reconstruction, repeating the mistakes that were discovered in contracting for Iraq reconstruction. We also ask that your review identify the most wasteful contracts, so we can take immediate steps to end them and spend the money properly to benefit Gulf Coast residents.Sincerely, /s/NANCY PELOSIDemocratic LeaderSTENY HOYERDemocratic WhipJAMES E. CLYBURNDemocratic Caucus ChairJOHN B. LARSONDemocratic Caucus Vice ChairHENRY A. WAXMAN Ranking Democrat, Government ReformBENNIE THOMPSONRanking Democrat, Homeland Security ###
02.23.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 23, 2006 LARSON URGES REVAMPING OF UNWIELDY MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION DRUG PROGRAMCalls for Federal Government to Reduce Costs and Improve Prescription Drug Access Through Direct Dealings with Drug Companies HARTFORD, CT ? Decrying the complications and difficulties of the Medicare prescription drug program, Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) at a press conference Thursday renewed his call for federal officials to negotiate with the pharmaceutical companies. Larson addressed the already-apparent failings of the Medicare D program from Arrow Pharmacy on Farmington Avenue in Hartford, supported by pharmacists, senior citizens, a financial services counselor to the elderly licensed by several insurers to enroll Medicare beneficiaries in their plans as well as advocates for senior citizens and people with disabilities who urged greater oversight of the plans by Centers of Medicare & Medicaid. They described the problem-riddled program as a ?fiasco? and ?a nightmare.? Beneficiaries and advocates also predicted the widespread chaos that accompanied the program?s Jan. 1 roll-out would be repeated as the enrollment deadline of May 15 approaches. Those who sign up after the deadline will have to pay a financial penalty in the form of higher lifetime monthly premiums. So far three quarters of Medicare beneficiaries for whom coverage is voluntary ? about 16.6 million ? have not yet enrolled. About 20 million were automatically enrolled because they were covered previously by their employer, Medicaid or other government programs. Larson presented a report prepared for him by the minority staff of the House Committee on Government Reform showing that, contrary to promises from the Bush Administration and Republican leaders, handing the drug benefit for the elderly over to private insurance companies has not reduced prices. Republican leaders in Congress, following the Administration, barred the federal government from bargaining with the drug companies. They claimed that market competition from private insurance plans would drive prices down. In fact, prices of drugs bought directly from Canada or that the federal government negotiates for veterans, military personnel and health clinics cost less than half of those sold through the insurance plans, the report shows. Even drugs purchased on-line through such sites as Drugstore.com or discount stores such as Costco are cheaper. Added to this failure to hold down costs, Larson said, are the difficulties that many seniors citizens who have enrolled in a plan, pharmacies and doctors offices have faced in getting necessary prescriptions filled at promised discounts in needed amounts. ?At best, this program was ill-conceived,? said Larson, who submitted a bill for direct federal negotiations of drug prices last year. ?We have the ability to provide seniors ready access to the most affordable drug prices at the least expense to taxpayers. Republicans opposed it. There is only one conclusion to make. The insurance and drug companies are higher on their list of priorities. It?s one more expansion of corporate entitlement under this Republican Congress and this Administration.? The Medicare drug program is expected to cost taxpayers more than $790 billion over the next decade, excluding significant additional costs states are shouldering to fill in coverage gaps for low-income seniors. In lieu of scrapping the entire program, Larson also repeated his legislative proposal for the government to extend by two years the deadline for seniors to sign up for a plan without being charged financial penalties in the form of lifetime higher premiums. His bill, introduced in November, would give Medicare beneficiaries the right to switch plans if theirs changes its formulary. The Medicare prescription drug law allows plans to change their formularies with 60 days notice. ###
02.13.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 13, 2006 LARSON URGES STATE TO ASSERT LEADERSHIP IN FUEL CELL DEVELOPMENT HARTFORD, CT ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) urged state lawmakers Friday to seize leadership in the development and use of fuel cell technology. Larson, co-chair of the House Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Coalition, spoke of the economic and environmental pay off that the state would enjoy by leading the nation in the transition to a hydrogen economy at a forum on the economic potential of the state?s fuel cell industry called by state President Pro Tem Donald E. Williams Jr. The state legislature, in partnership with Gov. M. Jodi Rell, can make Connecticut a model that other states will emulate. Connecticut, he said, is already well positioned to take the lead because of the state?s concentration of leading fuel cell companies. Connecticut is home to six fuel cell manufacturers whose reach extends across the globe. In fact, Connecticut?s fuel cell industry is a world leader, accounting for more jobs than any where else. About 1,000 jobs in Connecticut are related to hydrogen and fuel cell technology. ?There is no question in my mind that we have to make the transition from a petro economy to a hydrogen economy,? Larson said. ?A sense of urgency has to be driven home at every single level. The state legislative bodies in so many respects are going to be the entities that lead the way, that come up with the breakthroughs, that are able to think boldly and take us into the future. Connecticut will be the first in this area I am convinced.? Other states and nations are competing to be the first to widely commercialize fuel cells. Ohio, California and New York are among the states that are aggressively funding fuel cell initiatives. Larson noted that Connecticut investment and initiative will help ensure that Connecticut retains its dominant fuel cell sector. ?Governor Schwarzenegger has proposed a hydrogen highway from British Columbia to Baja, California," Larson added. ?That?s a bold initiative. We should be bolder. We can do it right here in the state of Connecticut. We can become the model and lead the way. We have the resources, the critical mass of skilled employees and the people with the technological aptitude to make it happen.....We need an Apollo Project for the country whose aim and goal is energy independence and whose focus should be making hydrogen the primary vehicle in which we get there. It is fully within our reach and our capability.? Connecticut can help the fuel cell industry push forward by using fuel cells for heating and cooling state buildings, for use in fleet vehicles and for use in bus transportation. It can also be more aggressive in promoting the technology through demonstration products. Increased state support, he added, will help Connecticut leverage available federal funds. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorized $3.3 billion in federal funding for critical hydrogen and fuel research, development, demonstration projects and market transition activities from FY 2006 to FY 2010. Federal initiatives also include tax credits for fuel cell installation. Connecticut could distinguish itself in the area of fuel cell development as it has with stem cell research. If nurtured, fuel cell technology can be Connecticut?s leading export of the 21st century, he said. ?It is important to look at what fuel cell technology means directly in terms of jobs, the impact on the economy and the environment, a reliable and stable energy source and a foreign policy that makes sense,? Larson said. National security considerations that relate to America?s increasingly costly dependence on foreign oil have implications for states and local communities as well, Larson added. As the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 demonstrated, the burden of first response in a national emergency ? natural or manmade - falls upon state and local governments, he said. ###
02.06.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 6, 2006 LARSON RELEASES STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT?S $2.8 TRILLION BUDGET WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) released the following statement Monday addressing the release of President George W. Bush?s $2.8 trillion budget recommendation. ?While claiming to move forward, this budget is a retreat for the nation,? Larson said. ?You don?t cut the national debt by cutting taxes for the top income taxpayers. You don?t strengthen the nation by continuing to gut crucial investments in human and economic development that fuel prosperity and competitiveness. ?Ultimately, the budget is a moral document, and this one hurts Americans most in need. It is not a reflection of the faith and values of the American people. Since President Bush took office, his administration?s limited economic gains have been enjoyed by a select few, bypassing the average American family. Upon inspection, the numbers reveal a two-fold increase in long-term unemployment, an alarming rise in poverty and a cumulative decline in real take home wages and income. Democrats in Congress intend to see that Americans? priorities are pursued and protected.? ###
02.01.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 1, 2006 LARSON ELECTED VICE CHAIR OF DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS WASHINGTON, DC ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) was elected today as Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus of the U.S. House of Representatives. Larson released the following statement: ?First and foremost I would like to say with great humility that I accept the confidence bestowed on me by my peers. I want to acknowledge my colleagues Jan Schakowsky and Joe Crowley for the campaign we waged, whose sole focus was to take back the House. I?ve been around government long enough to know you stand on the shoulders of those who came before you. Rosa DeLauro honored me by serving as one of my co-chairs and through her efforts and support throughout this entire process we were able to claim victory. I would also like to thank Connecticut?s senators, Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman for their incredible support as well. ?This victory could not have been achieved without the hard work and dedication of my other co-chair, Jack Murtha and my chief whip, Mike Capuano. This victory was a team effort and I wish to thank all the members who worked so tirelessly on my behalf. ?I look forward to working with Chairman Jim Clyburn on our mutual goal: to elect Nancy Pelosi the next Speaker and win back the House for the American people.? Larson defeated Rep. Joe Crowley (NY-7) by a vote of 116 to 87. Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) was eliminated in the first round of voting in the three-way contest. ###
01.25.2006	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 25, 2006 LARSON TO WORK WITH CONNECTICUT GROUP TO END DARFUR GENOCIDE HARTFORD, CT ? Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) met Wednesday with 10 members of the Connecticut Coalition to Save Darfur, pledging his help to win Congressional support to intervene in the genocide that has killed more than 400,000 and displaced 2.5 million people in an area the size of Texas. Larson, a co-sponsor of the Darfur Genocide Accountability Act in the House, committed to taking several steps to heighten public awareness of the rape and killing campaign being waged in the Darfur region of Sudan and spur U.S. intervention there. The act calls for both civil and military sanctions. ?The atrocities taking place in Darfur are a human tragedy - a world cause - that we cannot ignore,? Larson said. ?As the leader of the world, as the model of democracy and human rights, we must live up to our example.. It will take only a small effort on our part to relieve the enormous suffering occurring there. The rest of the world will follow our lead. But leading means taking the first step.? Larson vowed to encourage other members of Congress, Democrat and Republican, to enact the legislation and encourage President George Bush to sign it. He has also agreed write a letter urging all members of the House to take part in the Million Voices for Darfur rally on April 30 in Washington, D.C. The Connecticut Coalition to Save Darfur is a broadly represented group of 15 secular and non-secular organizations across the state. It includes the Archdiocese of Hartford?s Office of Black Catholic Ministries, several Jewish Community Relations Councils and the Waterbury NAACP. Laura Zimmerman, executive director of the Jewish Community Relations Council, said that U.S. involvement is critical if the brutality in Darfur is to end. ?Congress is the voice of the people in America. Sixty years ago, the world said it would never happen again. Ten years ago, President Clinton apologized for doing nothing about the genocide in Rwanda. During his first administration, President Bush said, not on my watch. Today, we come together so that these statements? meanings will not be empty.? David Morse, an author who returned from Sudan in December, said the genocide is worsening, further evidenced by reports released in January by the Human Rights Watch and Physicians for Human Rights. ?The chief weapon of the genocide is now becoming starvation,? Morse said. ?The government and its militia proxies are cutting supply lines to refugees.? As the meeting closed, Christopher Allen-Doucot of The Hartford Catholic Worker, said: ?In the hour we have been sitting here, 20 more people have died in Darfur. We believe Congressman Larson?s leadership will help highlight this terrible issue and persuade colleagues on both sides of the aisle to condemn the genocide with their words and actions.? Coalition contacts include Allen-Doucot at (860) 724-7066; Zimmerman at 860 231-6392, Morse at (860) 429-6803 and Deacon Arthur L. Miller, from the Office of Black Catholic Ministries at (860) 243-0648. ###
12.28.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 28, 2005 LARSON ENDORSES CONGRESSIONAL ETHICS REFORMS WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) called today for Congress to pass ethics reforms proposed by Representatives David Obey (D-WI), Barney Frank (D-MA), David Price (D-NC) and Tom Allen (D-ME). Their good-government proposals, which the representatives announced during a panel discussion at the Center for American Progress earlier this month, would restore accountability, re-establish checks and balances and curtail special-interest influence in Congress. The package of 14 reforms calls for: Ending lobbyist payment for Congressional travel Strengthening fiscal responsibility Preventing the use of pork-barrel earmarks to buy votes Eliminating the two-day Congressional work week Curbing legislative abuses such as extended roll calls and misuse of the rules process Prohibiting legislation from being voted on without time for member review Prevent legislation from being slipped into conference reports without a full public vote by the conference committee ?The appalling end-of-term abuses by the Republicans reinforce the desperate need for reform. Under five years of absolute Republican control, corruption has become standard operating procedure. Neither indictments, investigations nor public outrage have shamed them. And as we saw with the disgraceful exploitation of the defense spending bill to ram through an extra special-interest gift to the oil companies, the Republicans continue to brazenly flout the system. They show no respect for law, rules or our Constitution?s values on open government. We have watched vital jobs protecting the nation?s interests go to incompetent insiders. We see select groups, unelected by the people, set national policy. As a result our laws on prescription drug benefits for seniors, energy costs, tax breaks have been enacted purely for the benefit of special interests. Regulations have been sidestepped allowing taxpayer money to be thrown at well-connected contractors while our troops suffer shortages of body armor and thousands of Gulf Coast residents remain in shelters. These reforms will re-establish integrity in a system that now favors the highest bidder. They will resurrect the guard of checks and balances so that national - not special - interests our served. They will help put the brakes on runaway deficits that shortchange our citizens? priorities of security, opportunity and trust.? ###
12.19.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 19, 2005 LARSON CONDEMNS REPUBLICANS HOLDING DEFENSE BILLS HOSTAGE WASHINGTON, D.C. - Early Monday morning, Congress John B. Larson backed the Conference Reports for the FY2006 Defense Appropriations (H.R. 2863) and Defense Authorization (H.R. 1815) bills, which provides essential support for American troops and national defense. ?I am relieved at the passage of the defense appropriations and authorization bills despite the House Republican leadership?s dedicated efforts to sabotage the process,? Larson said. ?I am aghast that the majority would put politics ahead of our national defense and our troops? safety. At any time, national security and the care of our servicemen should be immune to the special interest give away we have witnessed this weekend. But when our country is engaged in war, holding up defense bills to attach measures unrelated to our national security or support for the men and women of our military is reprehensible. They endangered our troops? welfare for the sake of political advantage. This kind of political extortion is cynicism at its worst, and I fervently hope that our nation?s priorities never again take a back seat to partisanship self-interest.? The $453.5 billion appropriations act and related authorization provide a 3.1 percent pay raise for members of our armed forces, increases the death benefit and benefits for permanently disabled troops, and increases active duty levels for the Army and the Marine Corps. The bills improve access to mental health care and takes steps to improve accessibility to the military?s TRICARE health-care plan by expanding it to include certain members of the National Guard and Reserve. For operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, the appropriation bill includes $50 billion in emergency stopgap funding until further spending can be approved early next year. The total includes $1.2 billion for troop body armor, $8 billion for equipment replacement and up-armoring Humvees, and $363 million for IED jammers. The appropriations agreement also includes the so-called "McCain Amendment" barring cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners and detainees by U.S. military and civilian personnel. ?Continued support for essential defense programs such as the F/A 22 clearly demonstrate the importance of Connecticut's defense industry and skilled workforce to our nation's security,? Larson said. The conference report approves millions for First District fuel cell and aerospace technology projects. The Defense appropriations conference report also provides billions for major systems manufactured in Connecticut, including: $3.2 billion for 24 F/A-22 Raptors $4.9 billion for research and development of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter $3.5 billion for 15 C-17 transports $589 million for 26 UH-60S Navy Nighthawk Helicopters $558 million for 12 MH-60R Navy Seahawk Helicopters $660 million for 45 UH-60 Blackhawks for the Army and National Guard Also included is non-defense funding of $29 billion for recovery assistance to the hurricane-devastated Gulf Coast region and $3.8 billion for Avian Flu preparedness. ###
12.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 15, 2005 LARSON STANDS FOR REAL PENSION PROTECTION WASHINGTON, D.C.
12.14.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 14, 2005 LARSON COMMITTED TO MEANINGFUL BALANCE OF EXPANDED GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE AND CIVIL PROTECTIONS WASHINGTON, D.C.
12.14.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 14, 2005 LARSON OPPOSES DEEP CUTS TO JOB TRAINING, EDUCATION AND HEALTH AND UNDERFUNDING OF ENERGY ASSISTANCE WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) on Wednesday rejected the revised conference report on the Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations Act for FY 2006 (H.R. 3010), calling it a virtual retread of the bill that moderate Republicans joined Democrats in defeating a month ago. It passed Wednesday by a vote of 215 to 213. The package cuts $1.6 billion for essential education, health care and jobs programs on top of an additional $1.4 billion from an anticipated 1 percent across-the board cut for a total of $3 billion. It freezes the woefully under-funded Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program. Enforcement of child support payments by scofflaw parents are another of the legislation?s casualties. College loans have stayed flat for the past four years, while tuition and board has escalated 34 percent. ?The Republican-led Congress is literally leaving fellow Americans in the cold to fend for themselves,? Larson said. ?Heating prices are up 25 to 45 percent this winter while millions are out of work or have had to replace good-paying jobs that have gone overseas with minimum wage work and no health insurance. In New England and the Midwest, early winter temperatures have already plunged to the single digits. What is the 85-year-old widow, the single-mother with an infant or the family of four whose weekly income just covers the hike in rent and food prices supposed to do for heat? Congress?s answer is bundle up next to the oven because the help went to record-profiting oil companies who needed more break tax breaks and subsidies.? The reductions are part of $50 billion in cuts House Republicans want to help offset more than $70 billion in cuts that will largely benefit the wealthy, including a measure by the House leadership to extend the yet-unexpired 15 percent tax rate for capital gains and dividends. The tax cuts will still exceed the spending cuts, increasing the gargantuan deficit by billions of dollars. ?This revised conference report is no more than a cynical attempt to placate the minimum number of members to push ahead cuts that put the poor, the struggling and the forgotten further behind. These cuts to education, health care, food programs, job training are a recipe for despair. They further widen the lopsided income gulf. They push the destitute further into poverty and deny the educational and training opportunities that will help them get out. It is unconscionable to take food out of the mouths of children, to take away health care from pregnant women, to refuse job training to those who have been laid off in order to make the very richest richer.? In education, the spending bill further shortchanges funding of federally-mandated testing standards for teachers, tutoring and instruction. It decreases support to schools for special education students and technology. It cuts head starts and freezes for the fourth year in a row after-school programs, both of which serve only a fraction of the children eligible. Health care freezes and cuts extend to clinics, training for heath care workers, nutritional programs for the elderly, medical care for pregnant women and inoculations for young children. Reductions also fall on job readiness programs, skills retraining and employment service offices that help the unemployment find new jobs and obtain benefits while they are looking. ###
12.08.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 8, 2005 LARSON, KING PROPOSE GREATER FIRE PROTECTION FOR NURSING HOMES WASHINGTON, D.C.
12.08.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 8, 2005 LARSON BACKS DEMOCRATIC TAX PLAN THAT PUTS WORKING FAMILIES AND THE ECONOMY FIRST WASHINGTON, D.C.
11.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 22, 2005 LARSON MOVES FOR GREATER BENEFICIARY PROTECTIONS UNDER NEW MEDICARE DRUG LAW HARTFORD, CT
11.18.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 18, 2005 LARSON DECRIES SHAM REPUBLICAN RESOLUTION FOR WITHDRAWAL AS CHEAP, POLITICAL STUNT WASHINGTON, DC ? US Representative John B. Larson (CT-1) today denounced the vote on the Hunter Resolution (H.Res.571) as a political stunt designed to silence critics and avoid a real debate on Iraq. ?Regardless of whether you support this war or not, one thing is clear: when a member of this body as distinguished and respected as Mr. Murtha speaks up, it is wise to listen. ?However, rather than confronting his plan head on, the administration and the Republicans leadership has shot back with nothing but personal attacks and inflammatory rhetoric. They have gone after a 73-year-old decorated Vietnam veteran, impugned his motives, and attacked his character. These attacks on Mr. Murtha are the most politicized and shameful I have seen during my time in public service. ?The swiftness and intensity of the attacks against him demonstrate that his words have resonated with the American people ?much to the concern of this administration and the Republican leaders of this Congress. ?The Hunter resolution is nothing less than a cheap caricature of the serious concerns that many in our nation hold about the course of the war. Instead, we should be having a real and meaningful debate on our mission in Iraq and a plan that brings our troops home safely, securely and soon. Our troops and our nation deserve nothing less. ?The administration and the Republican leadership can attack their critics and hide behind their rhetoric, but in the end the truth will prevail.? ###
11.17.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 17, 2005 CALL FOR WITHDRAWAL FROM IRAQ IS A PROFILE IN CONSCIENCE WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson released the following statement today: ?Pennsylvania Representative John Murtha?s call today for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq is a profile in conscience. ?The courage of John Murtha, whether on the battlefields of Vietnam or the halls of Congress, in unassailable. Today, he put his stature and universal respect on the line for the men and women who wear our nation?s uniform. Compelled by his trips to the Middle East (on three of which I was proud to accompany him) and his visits with the wounded and their families, Murtha?s call today echoes that of Speaker Tip O?Neill?s call to bring our troops home from Vietnam. ?As someone who has relied on Murtha?s knowledge and experience in military affairs, I believe that his comments today only further reaffirm what the people of the first district and the nation have already concluded: that the military mission is over and it is time start bringing our troops home. ?It takes someone with Murtha?s stature, who is respected by both sides of the aisle and by the administration, and whose patriotism and support for the troops is unquestionable, to break through the partisan rancor and explain what truly needs to be done in Iraq. ?Murtha?s address to the Democratic Caucus today was one of the most moving I have had the honor to hear during my time in public service. His words today will resonate not only within the halls of Congress, but across the nation and around the globe.? ###
11.10.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 10, 2005 LARSON ENCOURAGES VETS TO SHARE EXPERIENCES AS CCSU TAKES ON ORAL HISTORY PROJECT WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson will join in honoring veterans Monday, November 21, at the dedication of Central Connecticut State University?s partnership with the Veterans History Project. The dedication, from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m., includes a luncheon for veterans and families who have been interviewed by Central. Larson, a graduate of Central, has been an active supporter of the Veterans History Project since its inception in 2000, arranging interviews with veterans and encouraging local schools to participate. ?I am proud and delighted at the active role that Central has taken in preserving our history and in recognizing the legacy of our veterans, as well as the contributions of those who supported the nation?s war efforts at home,? Larson said. ?There is no substitute for comprehending the hardships and sacrifices suffered in war than hearing veterans first-hand memories told in their own voices. Encourage your family and friends to share their experiences. Each story is meaningful. Each memory adds to the collective insight into our past.? This fall, Central partnered with the U.S. Library of Congress?s program through its Gov. William A. O?Neill Endowed Chair?s Oral History Project, which is housed in its Center for Public Policy and Social Research. Central students, faculty and staff will conduct a videotaped interview of Connecticut veterans from World War I, World War II, the Korean War, the Vietnam War, the Persian Gulf War and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The tapes will be archived in the Special Collections at the university?s Elihu Burritt Library. Copies of any other materials that veterans provide including journals, letters, service records, photographs, journals, field maps and drawings will be digitized and archived. Eventually, Central plans to make the interviews available on its website. So far Central has conducted 34 interviews. Eileen Hurst, assistant director for the Center of Public Policy and Research, said Central?s goal is to interview every veteran in the state. The disappearing numbers of World War II veterans, who are dying at a rate of 1,700 to 1,800 a day, have presented an urgency in capturing their stories. Eventually, the university also hopes to reach returning veterans from Iraq and Afghanistan. Across the country, only 15 veterans from the Iraq War have taken part in interviews, Hurst said. Often, for families, the interviews open up a part of their loved ones? lives that have been closed, even to them. ?There are never enough stories because everyone is an individual,? said Hurst, who in 2003 began volunteering to interview veterans at the Veteran?s Hospital in Rocky Hill. ?It?s history from the horse?s mouth. Everyone?s experience is different and how they view it is very different. They also talk about funny things that happen, everyday relationships and how it impacted their life and how they lived it. These stories are all phenomenal, and it?s a personal honor to collect them.? The Veteran?s History Project was established by legislation signed into law in 2000 to honor our nation?s war veterans and those who supported them at home. Instituted by the U.S. Library of Congress, the project is building a lasting legacy of recorded memories, written memories and other documents chronicling veterans? and other citizens? wartime experiences, and how those experiences affected their lives and America itself. ?Since the Project began collecting personal stories, it has received almost 40,000 individual submissions and the number who participate increases each year,? Larson said. ?It has found that every person who takes part has felt that it was worthwhile. Some have been initially reluctant. They don?t feel their story is that special or they?re hesitant to revisit those memories. But once they sit down and begin talking, they find the experience freeing.? To learn more about Central?s participation in the project, contact Hurst at (860) 832-2976. ###
10.27.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 27, 2005 LARSON VOTES TO HALT BASE CLOSINGS WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) voted Thursday for a joint resolution rejecting the 2005 round of base closures and realignments, saying that ?this is the wrong process at the wrong time for our nation.? The resolution was defeated 85 to 324. Larson has maintained since 2002, when plans for a 2005 round were announced, that major changes in the nation?s military infrastructure should not be undertaken during an extended period of war for an all-volunteer military that has repeatedly fallen short of its recruitment goals. Since then, Larson has consistently voted to repeal or delay further restructuring. He also has criticized the restructuring as backward, occurring before the completion of the Quadrennial Defense Review that assesses national threats and the force structure needed to meet them for the next two decades. While Larson said he was proud that Connecticut?s delegation succeeded in saving Sub Base New London from the list, Larson also objected to final recommendations that fell disproportionately on Air Force National Guards excluded from the Department of Defense?s assessments. The BRAC Commission upheld the removal of the Connecticut?s Air Force National Guard?s A-10 flying mission. Larson joined Connecticut Governor Rell, Attorney General Blumenthal and Senators Dodd and Lieberman in filing suit to prevent the removal of the 103rd Fighter Wing. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals vacated a federal court restraining order against Bradley?s inclusion in the final recommendations that went to President George W. Bush on Sept. 8. However, the appeals court upheld the right to sue if the transfer of the planes went through. Congress has 45 days to approve or reject the recommendations. Larson released the following statement: ?Rather than conducting an inclusive process ? as in the case of the Army National Guard recommendations - the Pentagon chose to craft their Air Force proposal by shutting out the very people that both the law and common sense dictate need to be included in changes to state Guard units. ?As a result the final Air Force recommendations disproportionately impact the Air National Guard, with 37 of the final 42 Air Force recommendations making changes to Air Guard units in states across the nation. Governors and Adjutants General widely opposed this plan, citing the impact on recruiting and retention of Guard members, lack of consultation, and reduced availability of personnel for vital state emergency response and homeland security functions. Although the Commission ultimately approved a scaled down version of the Pentagon?s Air National Guard plan crafted in the final days of their work, the final BRAC report states that the lack of coordination between the Pentagon, Governors and Adjutants General ?unnecessarily cost the Commission additional time and resources and damaged the previously exemplary relationship between the Air National Guard and the Air Force.? ?This misguided recommendation hits home in my district and state, where the 103rd Fighter Wing at Bradley Air National Guard base is slated to lose their A-10 Warthogs ? leaving Connecticut as the only state in the nation without an air national guard flying mission. In presenting our case to the Commission, our message was simple: the Pentagon not only used flawed data that did not take into account many of the unique capabilities of Bradley, but failed to consult our Governor in major changes to our state?s militia. While Adjutant General Thaddeus Martin, the staff of the 103rd and the state delegation made a strong case for Bradley, the base was unfortunately included in the final realignment plan. The men and women of the ?Flying Yankees,? and indeed all the members of the Air National Guard, deserve better than an ad-hoc transformation plan that has the potential to seriously impact the future of these citizen soldiers and their mission. ?We are forced to take legal action because the law is simple and clear: the Bradley A-10s cannot be removed without the consent of our Governor. Regardless of the result of today?s vote, Connecticut has the law on its side and I am confident that we will secure the future of the ?Flying Yankees.? ?One of our most important duties is to provide for the defense of our nation. We should not be closing and realigning our bases at a time when our nation is engaged in the Middle East and faces unprecedented threats from abroad. Rejecting BRAC 2005 is simply the right thing to do for our men and women in uniform the security of our nation, and for the future of our Air National Guard.? ###
10.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 26, 2005 LARSON: REPUBLICAN CUTS PUNISH POOR AND MIDDLE CLASS TO PRESERVE TAX BONUSES FOR WEALTHIEST AMERICANS WASHINGTON, D.C.
10.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 7, 2005 LARSON VOTES TO MAKE EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUNDING A PRIORITY WASHINGTON, D.C.
10.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: October 7, 2005 Larson Rejects GOP Gas Act That Rewards Oil Companies, Neglects Consumers WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today voted against the Gasoline for America's Security Act of 2005 (H.R. 3893).
09.30.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 30, 2005 CONGRESSMAN LARSON HAILS OPENING OF HARTFORD JOB CORPS ACADEMY HARTFORD, CT
09.30.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 30, 2005 Congressman Larson Announces DOD Release of Long-Awaited Reimbursement Policy for Troop Body Armor WASHINGTON, D.C.-Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01), who introduced a law providing reimbursements for service men and women deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan without adequate protective armor, announced Wednesday that the Department of Defense had issued regulations needed to initiate the program. The regulations were released seven months after the Congressional deadline that Congress mandated in the 2005 Defense Authorization Act (P.L. 108-375, Sec. 351). Under the Department of Defense's policy, members of the armed forces - or those acting on their behalf - can be reimbursed up to $1,100 for body armor or other vital equipment that they had to purchase on their own. Due to wide spread shortages at the start of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, many soldiers sent abroad without vital protective body armor. The reimbursements cover purchases made up until Aug. 1, 2004 ,when the military indicated it had corrected its shortage problem and allocated current-standard issue gear to all service members serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. The Congressionally-mandated rules for reimbursement should have been in place by Feb. 28, 2005 ? 120 days from the bill?s enactment. ?This reimbursement policy is a long time in coming,? Larson said. ?I?m cautiously optimistic that they fulfill Congress?s intent to repay service men and women and their families for the money they spent on body armor that should have been supplied to them in the first place. American men and women should never have been sent into battle with out the vital protective equipment they needed. Frightened family members should never have needed to resort to spending their savings to get their loved ones the armor that would keep them safe. This law is meant to help set right that wrong. ?I and other members of Congress will be monitoring the progress of these reimbursements to ensure that the program runs smoothly and no bureaucratic impediments have been raised to deny those who fought and their families their rightful reimbursements.? Leading up to today's release, Larson called and wrote to defense officials expressing his dismay at the delay and urging action. Most recently, Larson sent a letter to Secretary Donald Rumsfeld stating ?in the strongest possible terms, my concern with the slow progress? the Defense Department had made in getting the reimbursement program up and running. Larson proposed a bill to reimburse body-armor purchases in 2003 after Pene Palifka, a mother of a National Guardsman sent to Iraq, explained at a district forum that she had paid $1,100 of her own money to buy armor that would provide more protection than the basic flak jacket that he had been issued. Larson later successfully inserted the provision in the the FY05 Defense Authorization Act, which became law on October 28, 2004. ###
09.29.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 29, 2005 LARSON OPPOSES ROLLBACK OF ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT; SAYS GOES TOO FAR IN ERODING PROTECTIONS WASHINGTON, D.C.
09.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 22, 2005 LARSON URGES SENATE SUPPORT FOR STUDY TO NAME LOWER FARMINGTON RIVER AND SALMON BROOK A FEDERALLY-PROTECTED WATERWAY WASHINGTON, D.C.
09.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 21, 2005 LARSON AMENDMENT SOUGHT TO RAISE FOCUS ON MANUFACTURING WASHINGTON , D.C.
09.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 20, 2005 LARSON AMENDMENT TO BOOST MANUFACTURING MOVES AHEAD FOR VOTE WASHINGTON, D.C.?Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) will urge fellow Representatives Wednesday to strengthen the proposed Manufacturing Technology Competitiveness Act (H.R. 250) by approving his amendment to create a strong advocate who can build and back a coherent policy that creates jobs. He thanked the House Rules Committee Tuesday for sending his plan, which would elevate support for manufacturing issues within the Administration, to the House floor for a vote Wednesday. The plan will be taken up with other amendments to the bill.
09.19.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 19, 2005 LARSON ANNOUNCES $193,724 GRANT FOR UPDATED FIRE EQUIPMENT EAST GRANBY ? Congressman John B. Larson visited East Granby Monday to announce the volunteer fire department?s receipt of a $193,724 grant for improved safety equipment from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The funding was provided by the department?s 2005 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program through the department?s Office of Domestic Preparedness. For 2005, the program directed $650 million to fire departments throughout the country. Larson contacted the department?s Office of Domestic Preparedness on the volunteer fire department?s behalf. ?Our communities depend upon our police and firefighters who place themselves in danger to keep us safe,? Larson said. ?For their safety, as well as the residents who rely on them in an emergency, they need the best protection available. This grant will allow the dedicated volunteers of East Granby ?s Fire Department to obtain reliable, up-to-date equipment that would otherwise be difficult for an all-volunteer service to afford.? The department, which is seeing a resurgence in membership, will use the funds to purchase new and better protective equipment such as its first-ever rapid intervention pack designed for extricating a trapped firefighter or victim. Other gear that the grant will furnish includes lighter air bottles (made of fiberglass which is half the 30 pounds of the old steel ones, self-contained breathing apparatus, helmets and visors, face masks, extrication gloves, automatic alarms worn by firefighters at the scene and rescue gear. ?The real reason for this grant is pure safety,? said firefighter Ted Eisch, who wrote the funding request. After a decline in membership, which had dipped to around 20 individuals about six years ago, the department has been rebuilding. It now has between 40 and 45 volunteers. Many of the new members are second-and-third generation firefighters. Fire Chief Donald Zessin also credits the growth to its new cadet program. The increase has left the department, in some cases, with a shortage of equipment while much of that on hand is old and outdated, said firefighter Troy Wolf. Some of the gear that will be replaced is more than 10 years old, firefighters said. For more information, contact firefighter Ted Eisch at (860) 913-9800; Fire Chief Donald Zessin at FireDept@egtownhall.com or (860) 653-2576; or First Selectman David Kilbon, who can also be reached at (860) 653-2576. ###
09.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 16, 2005 LARSON URGES GREATER PENSION PROTECTION WASHINGTON , D.C.
09.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 7, 2005 Larson Statement on Bradley Air National Guard Base Court Decision WASHINGTON D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John Larson (CT-1) today issued the following statement in response to a federal court ruling blocking the BRAC Commission from including the realignment of the Bradley Air National Guard Base in their final recommendation to President Bush: ?This is a good day for the men and women of the ?Flying Yankees? and for the State of Connecticut. All along I remained confident that we would prevail because the law is simple and clear: the Bradley A-10s cannot be removed without the consent of our Governor. ?While today?s victory is an important one, it is by no means the final word on the fate of Bradley. I continue to stand firmly beside Governor Rell, Attorney General Blumenthal and General Martin in fighting any further efforts to remove the A-10s from Bradley. ?I applaud the Governor, Attorney General and our Adjutant General for their incredible effort to preserve the 103rd Fighter Wing. I am confident that by continuing to work together, we will secure the future of the Connecticut Air National Guard.? ###
09.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 7, 2005 LARSON CALLS FOR BROWN
09.06.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 6, 2005 Larson Applauds Hearing into Spiraling Fuel Costs WASHINGTON , D.C.
09.01.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: September 1, 2005 LARSON, DELAURO PROPOSE REVIVING EXCESSIVE PROFITS TAX Measure Would Extend to Oil Profiteers MANCHESTER
08.29.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 29, 2005 Congressman Joins Federal Suit over Loss of Guard Planes HARTFORD , CT ? Congressman John B. Larson joined the federal lawsuit filed today regarding the seizure of Connecticut?s Air National Guard aircraft. The lawsuit was brought by Attorney General Richard Blumenthal on behalf of Gov. M. Jodi Rell and the state of Connecticut . The lawsuit lists as defendants Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and the Base Realignment and Closure Commission. ?This is a matter of principle, of law, of Connecticut ?s security, and we will not stand by for Connecticut to be rendered the only state in the nation without an active air defense,? Larson said. We intend to fully press our legal standing and carry this fight as long as far as necessary to ensure that our planes and our enlisted personnel stay where they belong. These men and women joined the Connecticut Air National Guard because they wanted to serve their state as well as their country. We will not deprive them or our state citizens of that service.? Larson added, ?Seizing our Air National Guard?s aircraft is a gross abuse of federal power and overreaching application of eminent domain. I am fully behind our Governor, our state?s commander and chief. These are as much her troops and her equipment. She is responsible for the day to day protection of our state and its citizens. Unless she says they go, we?re going to make sure they remain.? Larson expressed confidence that Friday?s ruling by a federal judge striking a National Guard?s reassignment or reallocation without the governor?s consent bolsters Connecticut?s case. ###
08.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 26, 2005 Congressman Larson Dismayed by BRAC Grounding Connecticut ?s Sole Flying Mission HARTFORD - Congressman John B. Larson pledged Friday to carry on the fight to keep the Connecticut Air Guard flying following the BRAC commission?s approval of the Pentagon?s recommendation to strip its 15 A-10 Warthogs. ?The commission?s decision is difficult, but it is not necessarily fatal,? Larson said. ?We will take it to the next round, exploring all available options. I stand squarely behind Gov. Rell and the attorney general in their pursuit of legal action to maintain the presence of Connecticut ?s A-10 Warthogs, and will help in any way they ask.? Governors in states that faced elimination or substantially downsizing of aircraft units, including Gov. M. Jodi Rell, warned that such moves were illegal without their consent. Connecticut ?s suit will follow ones filed by Pennsylvania , Illinois and Tennessee . Friday, a federal judge ruled in favor of Pennsylvania ?s suit concluding that Pentagon does not have the authority to substantially alter the guard without the governor?s consent. Larson acknowledged that he was surprised by the commission?s decision. Several commission members had echoed concerns expressed by the Adjutant Generals Association of the United States that leaving states without flying missions would compromise homeland security, recruitment and disaster response to emergencies such as floods and forest fires. At the commission?s behest, the adjutant generals had drafted an alternative proposal consolidating some units but retaining aircrafts in each state. The commission?s decisive vote only two days earlier to strike Submarine Base New London from the closure list had further buoyed hopes. ?Frankly, I?m stunned. Obviously, I knew this could happen, but I was optimistic given the commission?s interest and responsiveness.? Friday?s vote endorses retiring or sending all aircraft to a base out of state. The combat-ready ?Flying Yankees? date back to World War I. The unit has been an active participant in the war on terrorism. It was awarded the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award following a highly successful Operational Readiness Inspection in the fall of 1999. ?This is not a case of win one, lose one,? Larson said, referring to the saving of the sub base. ?Each was fought on its own, compelling merits. The most painful aspect of this decision is that it serves no greater purpose. The commission really got it wrong on this issue. It may only discourage talented people who want to serve their state and their country from answering that call.? While the air guard is losing its planes, the base will remain open. The commission has until Sept. 8 to send its recommendations on closures and realignments to the President. He will have until Sept. 23 to accept or reject the recommendations in their entirety. If accepted, Congress will have 45 legislative days to reject the recommendations in their entirety or they become binding. ###
08.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 26, 2005 Congressman Larson Presents $1.03 Million Grant Promoting University of Hartford Studies Into Manufacturing Technology of the Future WEST HARTFORD, CT ? Congressman John B. Larson will celebrate the opening of the University of Hartford ?s new Integrated Science, Engineering and Technology complex at 10 a.m. Monday with the presentation of a $1.03 million check for research into laser-guided manufacturing. Larson will present the grant on behalf of the non-profit, federally-funded Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology, a national center for next-generation manufacturing based at Rentschler Field. The funding extends the center?s partnership with the University of Hartford in advancing precision manufacturing of 21st century technologies in the region. ?Throughout our history, Connecticut has taken the lead in manufacturing,? Larson said. ?Through technology, the world of manufacturing is changing. In partnering, CCAT and the University of Hartford are an example of the unity of purpose that will keep Connecticut at the epicenter of research and production. By bringing together industry and tomorrow?s workforce, we are creating a chain of development that will again place Connecticut at the forefront of innovation and manufacturing technologies.? The grant will fund applied research and development of laser applications in manufacturing by undergraduate and graduate students in the department?s new facilities. The research will be carried out in conjunction with Connecticut companies and the National Aerospace Leadership Center operated by CCAT. These laser technologies will serve as the basis for the manufacturing of the future. CCAT, which helps foster the development of emerging technologies for existing businesses and startups, developed out of Larson?s vision of a technology and science center to build on the region?s manufacturing strengths. With Senators Christopher Dodd and Lieberman, Larson helped secure funding for its creation, including the establishment of the National Center for Aerospace Leadership. Working with the U.S. Air Force, the leadership center is dedicated to preserving the region?s dominance in military-engine production and advanced propulsion and power systems. The center of aerospace and relationship with UHA are examples of CCAT?s synergistic approach to extending Connecticut ?s technology base. In serving its mission as a springboard of innovation, CCAT brings industry, academia and government together to work on today?s and tomorrow?s technology applications in manufacturing. Application areas include fuel cells, propulsion, nanotechnology and the biomedical field. ###
08.22.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 22, 2005 Larson Demands Hearings on Soaring Gas Prices WASHINGTON D.C.
08.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 16, 2005 Larson Demands Investigation Into Delays of Body Armor for U.S. Troops WASHINGTON , D.C.
08.03.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: August 3, 2005 Congressman Larson Announces COPS Grant for Newington WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Congressman John B. Larson announced Wednesday that the Newington Police Department has received an estimated $75,000 from the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) for the hiring of a community policing officer. The grant, awarded under the COPS Universal Hiring Program, provides up to 75 percent of the total salary and benefits of each new officer for three years. State or local funds pay the remainders. All jurisdictions that receive grants must retain COPS-funded officer positions, at full cost the police department, for at least one local budget period following the three-year federal funding period. Newington was one of only two police departments in Connecticut to be awarded COPS grants during the latest round of funding. The COPS office accepted Newington?s application as meeting the grant?s requirement two years ago, but did not have the available funding until now. Larson said he is delighted to see Newington receive this valuable funding in the face of Congressional efforts to slash spending for the program. ?Community policing is proven to play a vital role in keeping our streets safe,? Larson said. ?The COPS program has helped communities put more officers on the street and in contact with local residents and businesses. Supporting our local and city police departments is key, and I will continue to fight to see that it remains a priority.? Larson contacted the COPS office on behalf of Newington?s application. Newington Police Chief Richard Mulhall said that the grant will enable his department to expand its community policing field programs working with the elderly, local businesses and residents. ?It will allow us a lot of flexibility,? Mulhall said. ?It comes at a good time.? The new COPS hire in Newington is one of 65 law enforcement officers in 15 states and Puerto Rico to be included in the latest round of funding. According to the Department Justice, 64 percent of the nation?s law enforcement agencies, serving 86 percent of the U.S. population, engage in community policing practices. Since it was established in 1995, COPS has funded the hiring of more than 118,000 community policy officers to more than 13,000 of the nation?s estimated 18,000 state and local law enforcement agencies. These grants help make neighborhoods safer by increasing the number of officers available to patrol local communities and reduce fear and crime. For more information, contact Chief Mulhall at (860) 594-6201 ###
07.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 26, 2005 Rell, Dodd, Lieberman, and Larson Laud Adjutants General Association of the United States on its Presentation to the BRAC CommissionLetter to Chairman Principi highlights flaws in BRAC decision Washington, D.C. ? Governor M. Jodi Rell, Senators Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman, and Representative John Larson today commended the Adjutants General Association of the United States (AGAUS) for its effort to resolve legal and strategic flaws in the Pentagon?s Air National Guard BRAC recommendations. In a letter to Chairman Principi, the AGAUS asserted that the Department of Defense went beyond its authority by recommending the transfer of aircraft between states without those states? consent. Among its BRAC recommendations, the Defense Department has proposed that Connecticut's103rd Fighter Wing at Bradley Airport relinquish its A-10 aircraft to Barnes Air Force Base in Massachusetts. ?I have made it abundantly clear to Secretary Rumsfeld that I have not agreed ? and will not agree ? to the movement of the Air National Guard A-10 fighter jets stationed at Bradley International Airport,? Governor M. Jodi Rell said. ?The comments of the Adjutants General on this issue bolster our position. They are seeking an alternative that meets the needs of both the states and the Air Force, and ought to have the time they need to craft that proposal.? ?This is a significant development. There is a clear pattern emerging that indicates that the Pentagon clearly overstepped its bounds and didn?t comply with the rules when making these recommendations,? said Dodd. ?The fact that the Adjutants General Association is expressing opposition to the Pentagon?s recommendations should send a very strong signal to the BRAC Commission that the Pentagon erred in this and other decisions.? ?The Connecticut team strongly believes that the Defense Department?s proposed closure of the Bradley Air National Guard Base is beyond the scope of the BRAC process, said Lieberman. We are confident that the BRAC commissioners will take a good, hard look at the facts, and reverse the Pentagon?s flawed recommendation to close the Bradley base.? ?The BRAC commissioners asked for a solution that best serves the interests of our national security and our country,? Larson said. ?Creating a plan without consulting the adjutant generals and governors undermines those interests, especially considering the heightened threats facing our country, states and municipalities.? ?The adjutant generals know their units,? Larson added. ?When they say that the Pentagon?s unilateral recommendations are not only beyond the scope of the law, but detrimental to homeland security, they should be heard. Rather than rushing into a decision, it?s far better to reach an answer that meets all needs, the top priority being the safety of the American public.? The letter written by the Adjutants General Association of the United States to Chairman Principi is attached. ###
07.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 21, 2005 Larson Weighs Against Patriot Act
07.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 20, 2005 LARSON: RHETORIC MUST MEET REALITY ON PROTECTING AMERICA WASHINGTON, D.C.
07.13.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: July 13, 2005 Connecticut Delegation Works for Federal Aid to Repair Route 7Oil Tanker Damages Route 7 Bridge in Ridgefield Washington, D.C. - Governor M. Jodi Rell, Congressman Christopher Shays (R-CT), Senators Christopher Dodd (D-CT) and Joseph Lieberman (D-CT) and Representatives Nancy Johnson (R-CT), Rob Simmons (R-CT), Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) and John Larson (D-CT) have reached out to the U.S. Department of Transportation?s (DoT) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) seeking an expedited release of Emergency Relief Funds. The funds will reimburse Connecticut ?s eligible expenses from repairing damage caused by a trailer truck accident on U.S. Route 7 bridge over the Norwalk River in Ridgefield . DoT has offered technical assistance for environmental remediation and rerouting of traffic, and will reimburse 100 percent of the costs of restoring traffic flow and prevention of additional damage. Tuesday afternoon a trailer truck loaded with gasoline rolled over on a U.S. Route 7 bridge over the Norwalk River in Ridgefield , catching on fire, fatally injuring the driver, and severely damaging the 40 foot bridge. ?We are optimistic that emergency federal funding will be expedited for these badly needed repairs. Route 7 is among the busiest roadways in western Connecticut , carrying thousands of commuters and other citizens every day,? Rell said. ?We are working around the clock to make the necessary repairs as quickly as possible and believe this is a project that merits prompt federal reimbursement. Connecticut ?s Congressional delegation is to be commended for its quick action on this request.? ?We have reached out to the U.S. Department of Transportation and received a positive response. We will continue to work through the appropriate channels to ensure the state has the support they need to quickly assess and repair Route 7,? Shays said. ?This is a key road for many constituents in the 4th District and I?m eager to get it into working order again as quickly as possible. My thoughts and prayers go out to the family of the gentleman who lost his life in this accident.? ?This is a major transportation artery in our state that has been badly damaged. It calls for major financial first aid,? said Dodd. ?It?s critically important that the federal government provide every resource available to help restore this bridge and reimburse Connecticut to deal with the cost of cleanup and repairs.? ?First, my thoughts and prayers go out to the families affected by this horrific accident during this difficult time,? Lieberman said. ?Access to Route 7 is critical for Connecticut?s commuters and the release of this funding provides a much needed boost to the state?s repair efforts. Assistance for remediation and rerouting provided by the U.S. Department of Transportation removes the roadblocks to reconstruction.? ?An incident such as this impacts all of Connecticut ,? Simmons said. ?By working together in a bipartisan fashion, I?m hopeful that we can deliver some immediate assistance to all those who rely on this critical route and bridge.? ?Route 7 is critical to those living and working in Western Connecticut ,? Johnson said. ?We are working with federal transportation officials to make sure our state has the resources it needs to repair and reopen this busy roadway as quickly as possible.? ?It is critically important that the state receive this emergency federal aid to restore this bridge and get traffic in Western Connecticut moving again,? said DeLauro. ?I would also like to extend my thoughts and prayers to the family of the truck driver who tragically lost his life in this accident.? ?Thousands of people rely on Route 7 everyday,? said Larson. ?The quicker we can get the federal aid needed to clean up the highway and get people moving again, the better.? All traffic has been diverted to Route 35 and Route 102. A detailed assessment of the damage will be done when gas fumes clear enough to allow Connecticut Department of Transportation officials access, but early estimates indicate repair will cost between $2 million and $5 million. U.S. Route 7 is part of the National Highway system. ###
06.27.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 27, 2005 Hydrogen & Fuel Cell Caucus announces
06.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 20, 2005 Congressman Larson Supports Defense-Spending Bill Containing More than $2 Billion for Connecticut WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Congressman John B. Larson joined fellow House members for the approval of a $408.9 billion defense-spending bill that contains more than $2 billion for Connecticut-based defense manufacturers. The Department of Defense Appropriations Act for FY 2006 (HR 2863) also provides a 3.1 percent pay increase for military personnel and allocates $45.3 billion in emergency supplemental funding to cover operations in Iraq and Afghanistan for the first half of the year. ?This bill supports our needs for maintaining maximum military preparedness,? Larson said. ?It continues critical defense programs tied to Connecticut. I?m particularly pleased at the continued support for the F/A-22, just one of many examples of the enormous contribution the state?s defense industry and skilled workforce make in giving our Armed Forces their technological edge.? Funding recommendations for major defense programs important to Connecticut include: $3.8 billion for 24 F/A 22 Raptors $4.9 billion for research and development of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter $3.2 billion for 15 C-17 transports $660 million for 45 UH-60 Black Hawks for the Army and National Guard $589 million for 26 MH-60S Navy Nighthawk helicopters $559 million for 12 MH-60R Navy Seahawk Helicopters ###
06.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 16, 2005 Letter to IRS Commissioner Protests Closings of Hartford and New Haven Taxpayer Assistance Centers WASHINGTON, D.C.
06.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 16, 2005 Larson Statement on Pelosi Amendment Requiring ?Strategy For Success? in Iraq WASHINGTON, D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) today issued the following statement regarding House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi?s amendment to Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2863) calling for President Bush to submit to Congress a detailed strategy for success in Iraq. ?This amendment isn?t about setting a hard date for withdrawal, or leaving Iraq before we finish what we started. This amendment, rather, simply ensures that this Congress ? and the American people ? know what milestones and criteria by which our nation will judge success in Iraq. Without such a guide, we will continue to be left with an open-ended military commitment with no end in sight. ?Our men and women in uniform deserve nothing less than clear milestones that lead us to the day when we can bring them home. To get to that day, we need to know how we are going to assess the capabilities and readiness of Iraqi security forces and when we can expect them to take over vital security missions in their country. We need to know the number of U.S. and coalition advisors needed to support Iraqi security forces. And, finally, we need to know the benchmarks by which we will measure the political stability of Iraq. ?The fog of war is thick in Iraq, and this administration has only added to it by sticking to their vague notions of success and stability. But the President can cut through the fog by providing clear and demonstrable criteria by which we can judge our progress and, hopefully, success in Iraq. ?Since the start of this war, I and many of my colleagues have implored the President to level with the American people and our troops over the true cost and end strategy for the war. It is time for the administration and Congress to be honest with us about a path forward in Iraq - a path towards a success that brings our men and women home and restores our credibility at home and abroad.? ###
06.15.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 15, 2005 Congressman John B. Larson Opposes CAFTA Without Better Labor Protections WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressman John B. Larson voted against the U.S. Central American Free Trade Agreement Wednesday when the House Ways and Means Committee took up the bill. In a preliminary vote, the Committee endorsed the White-House negotiated treaty unchanged 25 to 16. Larson objected to the trade agreement as drafted because it strikes an unfair balance, offering little to stimulate the American economy. He said the pact falls short of the standards that any trade agreement America signs onto should meet: the broad fulfillment of America
06.06.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: June 6, 2005 Congressman John B. Larson Redoubles Efforts for Medicare Prescription-Drug Reform WASHINGTON, D.C. - Continuing his campaign to provide the elderly and disabled meaningful relief from excessively high prescription medicine costs, Congressman John Larson this month stepped up pressure on the Republican House majority to consider legislation requiring Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices. Seeking to overcome Republican resistance, Larson recently signed a discharge petition seeking to force the House to vote on H.R. 376, authorizing Medicare to negotiate with American drug companies for reduced prices on life-saving medication. Larson has also reintroduced a bill he raised in the 108th Congress for the federal government to use its extensive bargaining power to contract lower prices for Medicare
05.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 26, 2005 HOUSE PASSES DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION BILLStrong Support for Connecticut Defense Industry; More work to be done to strengthen benefits for military families WASHINGTON, D.C.- The House of Representatives passed a defense authorization package Wednesday night that continued support for several programs key to Connecticut?s defense industry and made some progress in improving conditions for the nation?s troops. However, it failed to adopt measures that would have improved troops? overall quality of life or halt the latest round of base closings, said Congressman John B. Larson. The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (H.R. 1815) authorized $441.6 billion in spending for national defense programs and an additional $49.1 billion in emergency supplemental funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. For men and women in uniform, it provides a 3.1 percent pay raise and increases the overall size of the active-duty force by 11,000. It also funds the F/A-22, Joint Strike Fighter and submarine construction. ?This bill reaffirms that Connecticut is a vital part of our nation's defense," Larson said. ?Through their ongoing advancements, Connecticut continues to equip our military with the cutting-edge technology that helps maintain our unrivalled strength.? Larson said that the New London Submarine Base and the 103rd Fighter Wing out of Bradley Airport are also critical components of what the state brings to national defense. Larson joined a bipartisan coalition in supporting an amendment to delay the BRAC process until Congress received critical reports regarding future force structure needs. While the amendment ultimately failed, Larson vowed to press on. ?Quite simply, this is the wrong process at the wrong time,? Larson said. ?It is inconceivable that we are spending almost $600 million to build the most expensive U.S. embassy in history in Baghdad at the same time we are devastating our own infrastructure here in America.? ?If the Pentagon and President are determined to downsize our military installations, it is better that we proceed with caution rather than rush headlong without all the facts,? Larson said. ?Considering that we are at war and trying to maximize our homeland security, I?d say some of those facts are still in flux.? Larson said that while the pay increase and troop additions marked some progress, they amount to baby steps. Larson said that overall, the Republicans? commitment to our troops falls short. The defense bill also included an amendment offered by Rep. Butterfield (D-NC) that hastened the elimination of the Disabled Veterans? Tax for about 29,000 military retirees - those with 60 to 90 percent disability ratings who are unable to work as a result of their disability. But another amendment proposed by Rep. Jim Marshall (D-GA) to completely end the Disabled Veterans? Tax for about 400,000 military retirees who were left out of the partial repeal enacted in 2003 was blocked from being offered by the Republican- dominated Rules Committee. Other Democratic efforts to further expand Guard and Reserve access to healthcare were also derailed by the Republican leadership. Larson joined other Democrats in supporting an amendment to the defense bill offered by Rep. Gene Taylor that would have allowed Guard and Reservists, who are currently covered by TRICARE only when they are mobilized for active duty, to buy into TRICARE for an affordable monthly premium. Despite a concerted last push by Democrats Wednesday night, the amendment narrowly failed by a vote of 211-218. Earlier this year, Congressman Larson and Congressman Taylor introduced H.R. 1169, the Reserve Reserves Pay and Benefits Modernization Initiative Act which would provide Guard and Reservists access to the TRICARE health care system. ?Republicans have repeatedly brushed off legislation that would provide greater support for America?s troops and veterans,? Larson said. ?It?s insupportable that the Republican leadership thinks it?s too much for members of the Guard and reservists who risk their lives for their country to ask for affordable health care in return.? Funding for major defense programs important to Connecticut include: $3.8 billion for the F/A-22 Raptor - 24 aircraft $4.9 billion for the Joint Strike Fighter (JSF) for Research and Development $3.2 billion for the C-17 - 15 aircraft $658 million for 46 Black Hawks for the Army and National Guard (an increase of $74 million more and five additional aircraft above the President's request) $555 million for 12 MH-60R Navy Sea Hawk helicopters $504 million for 26 MH-60S Navy Sea Hawk Helicopters ###
05.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 26, 2005 Congressman Larson Continues to Push for BRAC Delay WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson today pressed again to delay to the BRAC process during consideration of the FY06 Military Quality of Life Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2528). Larson backed an effort by Rep. Stephanie Tubbs Jones (D-OH) to prohibit funding being spent to implement the recent BRAC recommendations until the Pentagon releases all the facility-specific information they used to make their closure and recommendations. After nearly two weeks, the Pentagon has yet to release this critical data to Congress or the communities affected. Larson would have voted for the measure to freeze BRAC expenditures; however, Tubbs Jones withdrew her amendment when it became clear that it would be ruled out of order. ?The Groton Sub Base community and the airmen of the 103rd Fighter Wing deserve a thorough and extensive review of the Pentagon?s recommendations,? Larson said. ?This cannot happen until the Pentagon levels with us and countless other communities anxiously waiting to understand their decisions.? Larson also supported an amendment raised by Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) calling for the federal government to provide $351 million to complete cleanup of unexploded munitions and environmental toxins on bases closed or realigned during prior BRAC rounds. Defense Department data indicates that it will cost over $3.6 billion to clean up sites closed in previous BRAC rounds. However, the Defense Department requested only $378 million to clean up these sites in FY2006, even while a new round of closures is scheduled to begin this fall. Dating back to the first Base Realignment and Closures round in 1988, communities have been left with land unfit for redevelopment because the federal government has failed to live up to its responsibilities, Larson said. Before the next round of closings is begun, the federal government must address this inventory of unsafe, unusable land. The government?s failure to remediate the sites it shuttered has denied communities full economic recovery. Below are Larson?s remarks during consideration of the Blumenauer amendment: ?Mr. Speaker, I would like to rise and associate myself with the remarks of the distinguished gentleman from Oregon and strongly support his amendment. Let me also add and thank the very thoughtful colloquy that was conducted by Mr. Farr to the distinguished chairman from New York and clearly his involvement and assistance is much needed and greatly appreciated. But as a statement I dare say, for the Northeast as an entire region that has been targeted, when you look at statistically what is going on here in the 17 communities, as the gentleman noted, that are in dire shape. When you look at the length of time as we project out, you now understand why communities have such enormous apprehension about this. Or, as Finley Peter Dunne would say, ?Trust everyone, but cut the cards.? In the case of the BRAC hearings we feel that we need a new deal. I further would just say to the distinguished chair and, I again applaud him personally for his efforts, that while there will be more money available for cleanup from the sale of the el Toro Marine Air Station, the amount needed is over $3.6 billion. Even with these new funds we are less than one-third of the way there in terms of the funding. One-third of the way there and we are adding on all these new communities and in looking at what the BRAC findings initially have projected -- especially looking at the state of Connecticut in terms of the cleanup -- how drastically underestimated they have been in those areas as well. So these are very disturbing and that is why, again, I thank the gentleman from Oregon for raising this very important and thoughtful amendment -- a commonsense approach that before we proceed to a fifth round, that we make sure that we address these very important issues that impact all of our communities. If we are going to have trust in this process, as the gentleman has appropriately pointed out, then Congress cannot abrogate its responsibility. It has to assume that responsibility and assure these communities that are going be impacted if we are to proceed in a strategic and very important commonsense approach to this issue.? ###
05.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 26, 2005 LARSON: VETERAN SPENDING BILL FALLS SHORT WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Congressman John B. Larson today called for greater funding for the VA health care system as Congress took up the Military Quality of Life Appropriations Bill (H.R. 2528). The bill provides $121.8 billion for veterans? health care and military construction in 2006.?This bill, unfortunately, falls short by $2.6 billion in meeting the needs of the VA,? Larson said. ?As our young men and women return home from Iraq and Afghanistan, they will come home to a health care system that can hardly take care of current veterans - let alone new ones.?Today, more than 50,000 veterans are waiting in line for at least six months for veterans? health care -- and that problem will only worsen with the growing numbers of soldiers returning from Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom. As of May 2005, the VA had treated only about 85,000 of the 360,675 veterans from these deployments. In 2006, the Department expects to treat 5.2 million veterans - double the number in 1995. The overall cost increase for medical care in 2003 was close to double the inflation rate. During consideration of the bill, Representative David Obey (D-WI) attempted to offer an amendment to increase funding for medical care by $2.6 billion. However, the Majority prevented the amendment reaching the floor.?The majority is nothing if not consistent, and has once again blocked attempts to fully fund the VA,? said Larson. ?It is long past time that Congress match rhetoric with real action to ensure veterans - current and new - receive the level of service they were promised.?Larson has consistently fought to ensure that veterans get the health care system they were promised in return for their service to our nation. He is a cosponsor of the Assured Funding for Veterans Health Care Act of 2005 (H.R. 515), which would require that the VA be funded based on the number of enrolled veterans - ensuring that veterans get a fully funded health care system. ###
05.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 25, 2005 New Energy Bill Dedicates $1 million for Connecticut-Based Efforts in Advancing Fuel-Cell Technology WASHINGTON, D.C.
05.24.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 24, 2005 Congressman John B. Larson Recognized for Support of Fuel-Cell Technology WASHINGTON, D.C.
05.13.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 13, 2005 Congressman John B. Larson Denounces Sub Base Closure HARTFORD, CT - Congressman John B. Larson today blasted the Department of Defense?s recommended closing of the U.S. Naval Submarine Base New London, calling the proposal ?short-sighted? and ?unjustifiable.? ?It is a mistake detrimental to both our national defense and our state economy,? Larson said. ?It is inconceivable that we are spending almost $600 million to build the most expensive U.S. embassy in history in Baghdad at the same time we are devastating our own infrastructure here in America. I will work closely with the Connecticut delegation and the Governor in pursuing every avenue to prevent the base?s closing.? Larson added: ?This is not only a devastating blow to the Groton sub-base area, it is a terrible setback for the entire state,? Larson said of the sub base?s proposed closing. ?We will not allow Connecticut?s job and technology base to be sacrificed for an ill-judged scheme to produce a leaner - but not necessarily meaner - military.? Larson has opposed the Pentagon?s drive to push through the 2005 round of base closings. Repeatedly over the past three years, he has voted to kill or delay the 2005 round of base closings, arguing that Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld should not be barreling ahead with downsizing domestic bases while our nation is at war and bolstering homeland security against another terrorist attack. The continuing tenuousness of the economy compounds the irresponsibility of cutting bases now, he has stated. The list revealed that the Connecticut Air National Guard stationed at Bradley Airport would be realigned, losing the A-10 ?warthogs? that been the key to the 103rd Fighter Wing?s mission and heart of its identity. Rumsfeld has proposed moving the A-10s to the 104th Fighter Wing at Barnes Municipal Airport Air Guard Station in Massachusetts. The realignment would shift the Bradley base?s primary mission to engine maintenance and repair, specifically of the TF-34. Larson will continue to work with the Governor to ensure that the proposed realignment adequately addresses the state?s and nation?s concerns regarding defense and security. ?With these kinds of proposals, the devil is in the details,? he said. ?We?re going to examine this realignment closely. We will fight any measure that compromises our needs ? now or in the future.? The nine-member, 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission will conduct regional hearings across the country to allow affected communities to comment. At least one member of the commission is expected to visit each base that the Defense Department has tagged for closure. After review, the commission will send its closure list to the President for his approval. The BRAC law gives Congress, upon receiving the final recommendations, 45 days to reject the list or it becomes law. ###
05.10.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 10, 2005 Communities Receive EPA Grants to Redevelop Contaminated Sites HARTFORD, CT - The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency today awarded sixteen
05.09.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 9, 2005 Congressman Larson Backs Initiatives for Expanding Healthcare Coverage WASHINGTON, D.C.- Washington, D.C.
05.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 5, 2005 Congressman Larson Announces Legislation to Benefit 21st Century GI?s WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressmen John B. Larson (CT-01) today joined House Democrats in introducing the GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century, a legislative package designed to provide our men in women in uniform with better protections and improved benefits. ?Over 1 million men and women have served to date as part of Operations Iraqi Freedom and Enduring Freedom, and now is the time for a new GI Bill,? said Larson. In 1944, Congress enacted legislation that welcomed soldiers of the Great Generation home with educational benefits, housing loans, medical assistance and college tuition. The federal government similarly honored returning service men and women returning from Korea and Vietnam. Now, the needs and economic realities of the next generation fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan must be addressed. The New GI Bill of Rights for the 21st Century will guarantee homecoming veterans access to education, health care and the opportunity for good jobs and to maintain our military strength by encouraging new recruits to take their place. It restores cuts and adds funding for vital Veterans programs omitted in President Bush?s budget plan. ?We are indebted to these brave men and women,? Larson said. ?Words of gratitude aren?t enough. We have a duty to protect them in battle and at home. We cannot forget the men and women in the National Guard and Reserves who have risked their lives and left their families for long stretches at a time. Their sacrifices should not be repaid by having to fend without decent medical care or a job. Nor should we neglect the families of those who have died or forget those who have been injured.? The New GI Bill would enhance legislation Larson introduced in March to address the increasing retention and recruitment shortfalls faced by the National Guard and reserve. As Guard and reserve units continue to be called to serve extended tours overseas, our part-time ?weekend warriors? have become full time soldiers. However, Guard and reserve members continue to be treated separately from the active duty counterparts in areas of benefits, pay and deployment - a practice that lowers retention of current members and keeps many potential recruits from signing up. Larson?s bill, the Reserve Pay and Benefits Modernization Act (H.R. 1169), would address a number of critical needs specifically facing America's Guard and Reserve. Today, Reservists and National Guard members make up 50 percent of the troops in Iraq, with some having served up to three tours of duty. Over the last 2 ? years, more than 300,000 National Guardsmen and Reservists have been called up while more than 45,000 have had their deployments extended. ?Our National Guard and reserve units are serving a critical role in our missions overseas and homeland defense,? Larson said. ?As their role in modern war fighting increases, they deserve the same rights as those they fight along side of, and those they fight for.? The GI Bill for the 21st Century: Makes Health Care Accessible and Affordable for Our Veterans Improves veterans? health care. Improves mental health diagnosis and treatment for returning soldiers. Blocks increases in prescription drug co-payments and enrollment fees for veterans. Provides the Benefits Our Veterans Have Earned and Deserve Ends the Disabled Veterans? Tax. Reduces waiting times on disability claims and expands outreach to veterans. Honors the Families of Those Who Made the Ultimate Sacrifice for our Country Ends the Military Families Tax. Increases survivor benefits for families with minor children. Strengthens Our Support for Our Men and Women in Uniform Provides $1,000 Bonus for those serving in Iraq and Afghanistan. Ensures an adequate number of troops and adequate equipment for our troops. Improves military pay for senior enlisted personnel and warrant officers. Honors Our Debt to Our Servicemen and Women Modernizes and enhances the GI Bill Education and Job Training Programs. Provides additional funds to assist homeless veterans with employment. Protects bonuses and special pay for the permanently injured, and continues combat pay or additional compensation for those recovering from combat injuries. Improves Benefits for Our National Guard/Reservists Expands military health care (TRICARE) for National Guard/Reservists. Protects the income of activated National Guard/Reservists. Ensures recruitment incentives and bonuses for National Guard/Reservists and improve educational benefits. ###
05.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 5, 2005 Congressman Larson Speaks Out Against Education Secretary?s Ruling on School Reform in Connecticut WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-01) issued a statement today on the U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spelling?s final refusal to waive standardized testing requirements for Connecticut?s school children in grades 3, 5 and 7. Although Connecticut has led the nation in quality education and has tested students in the 4th, 6th , and 8th grade for twenty years, the Department of Education will force the state to spend $8 million to implement additional testing requirements under the federal No Child Left Behind Act. ?A ?one size fits all? approach to education is not what members of Congress imagined or authorized,? Larson said. ?No Child Left Behind was signed into law because Congress and the Administration agreed we needed to raise school standards and ensure student achievement ?these important goals remain today. However, the Administration has repeatedly shortchanged No Child Left Behind and shifted the financial burden to our states and towns to make up the difference. For former teachers like myself, it?s disappointing Secretary Spellings fails to recognize Connecticut?s outstanding education record and the advances Connecticut has made in closing student achievement gaps.? Last month, Larson co-sponsored the No Child Left Behind Reform Act, introduced by fellow Connecticut Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro. The reform act would give states more flexibility in measuring student achievement. In 2003, Larson co-sponsored the Keeping Our Promises to America?s Children Act, which would allow a state education agency or school district to suspend implementation of the NCLB provisions until it is fully funded. Connecticut is one of only 5 states to date to fully implement the NCLB requirements. The state?s tests are among the hardest; its students are among the highest-performing; and its teachers are among the best educated. Among minority and disadvantaged student, the state is making considerable strides. From 2000 to 2004, the achievement of black and Hispanic students statewide increased at a faster rate than white students. Similarly, students who live in our seven most disadvantaged cities and towns increased at faster rates than the achievement of their wealthier counterparts. Connecticut is not the only state to chafe under the legislation?s requirements. Utah?s legislature passed a bill that allows Utah schools ignore the 2002 No Child Left Behind education law if its mandates conflict with state priorities or require state money to meet them. The National Education Association (NEA), the nation's largest teachers' union, with school districts in Michigan, Texas and Vermont, filed suit against the Federal Government, claiming that No Child is severely underfunded. Maine is considering joining. ###
05.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: May 5, 2005 Congressman John B. Larson Statement on House Majority Leader
04.21.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 21, 2005 LARSON: ENERGY BILL FAILS TO PROVIDE REAL SOLUTIONS WASHINGTON , D.C.
04.11.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: April 11, 2005 CT LAWMAKERS ANNOUNCE $3.2M FOR JOB ACCESS AND REVERSE COMMUTE PROGRAM WASHINGTON, D.C. ? Connecticut lawmakers today announced a grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation in the amount of $3,221,594 for the Job Access and Reverse Commute program (JARC). The funding will be administered through the Connecticut Department of Transportation (ConnDOT) for statewide expansion of transit services geared towards filling gaps between lower income Connecticut residents and regional job centers, job-training programs, and educational facilities. ?These grants help strengthen the Connecticut economy by putting more people to work,? said Dodd. ?There in no reason not to continue fully funding this highly successful initiative that enables more people to find employment.? ?I am extremely pleased that Connecticut has received these funds to improve public transportation to and from our urban areas,? said Lieberman. ?Our lower income workers will now be able to find employment opportunities previously inaccessible to them via public transportation, bringing additional economic benefits to disadvantaged neighborhoods.? ?This funding will help keep Connecticut working,? Johnson said. ?These important federal dollars will support Connecticut workers and help the state meet their transportation needs.? ?JARC helps welfare recipients and low income workers get where they need to go,? said Shays. ?I am grateful for this funding and support of those in our community who need it most.? ?Providing low-income residents with the transportation they need to get back on the road to employment is important to economic and community development,? said DeLauro. ?This funding will enhance Connecticut?s ability to give those who want to work the means to do so.? ?This program has already helped thousands of low income workers in the Hartford area move from welfare to work,? said Larson. ?With this new grant, citizens from all across the state will benefit from greater access to the transportation services and job training they need to succeed.? ?One of the keys to moving people from welfare to work and helping them keep a job is providing adequate and reliable transportation,? said Simmons. ?The JARC program removes a large hurdle facing low-income workers, and I?m proud to have worked with our delegation on this issue.? ###
03.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 16, 2005 JOHNSON-LARSON BILL EXAMINES NEW ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS FOR FARMINGTON RIVER WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Nancy Johnson (R-5th) and Congressman John Larson (D-1st) today reintroduced legislation aimed at adding the Farmington River to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers program. The bill commissions a feasibility study to evaluate whether the lower Farmington River and Salmon Brook qualify as a Wild and Scenic Partnership River within the National Park Service's National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The lower Farmington River is defined as the 40 mile stretch between the lower Collinsville Dam in Burlington and the Rainbow Dam in Windsor in the First and Fifth congressional districts.
03.16.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 16, 2005 LARSON STATEMENT ON SCHIAVO CASE WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today issued the following statement regarding Congressional action over the weekend on the Terri Schiavo case. ?This is a tragic situation,? said Larson. ?I?m obviously not a doctor or an attorney, nor do I know all the particulars of this heart-wrenching situation and what has gone on within the Schiavo family. However, as a spouse, I would want to fulfill my wife?s wishes. As a parent, I would cling to every ounce of hope for my daughter. The one thing I know for sure is that 535 Members of Congress shouldn?t be making very personal decisions for this family or in place of multiple Florida state courts. The narrow way this was drafted and the fact it will impact only this one case and not all families going through this problem leads me to believe this was ideologically and politically motivated. That in itself is another tragedy.? ###
03.03.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 3, 2005 LARSON JOINS U.S. REP. JOHN LEWIS ON CONGRESSIONAL CIVIL RIGHTS PILGRIMAGE THIS WEEKEND IN ALABAMAOccasion Marks Struggle for Civil Rights, 40th Anniversary of the Voting Rights March WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) will join fellow Congressman John Lewis in attending the 7th Annual Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage in Alabama this weekend, marking the civil rights struggles of African Americans in the south and the 40th Anniversary of the historic Voting Rights March. Lewis played a critical role in shaping the Civil Rights movement and is leading the pilgrimage. ?This is an extraordinary opportunity to commemorate the struggle that took place here which helped break down the barriers of racial injustice that stood for so long in this nation,? said Larson. ?I am especially privileged to join this pilgrimage led by Congressman John Lewis, who represents living history of the struggle for civil rights in America and has dedicated his life to securing and protecting human rights and civil liberties. I think its important for Members of Congress to go there not only to remember, but also to remind us of the remarkable courage possessed by the men and women who helped shape the civil rights movement by standing up against oppression and discrimination. The events and people we honor this weekend in Alabama helped ensure full freedom, equality and peace for generations of their fellow Americans, in the face of terrible brutality. Their sacrifices and bravery will never be forgotten.? The sites that will be visited by Larson and other Members of Congress on the trip will include the 16th Street Baptist Church, a tour of the Rosa Parks Museum, a wreath laying at the Civil Rights Memorial, a visit to the Voting Rights and Slavery and Civil Rights Museum, and a reenactment of the 1965 march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma. The weekend will also include discussion groups on the Civil Rights movement. ###
03.03.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: March 3, 2005 LARSON STATEMENT ON COMMITTEE
02.18.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 18, 2005 CONNECTICUT DELEGATION HAILS STATE EMERGENCY DECLARATION FOLLOWING JANUARY SNOWSTORM WASHINGTON - The federal government has declared a state of emergency in Connecticut that will help communities recover from the severe weather conditions that struck the state in late January, Connecticut
02.08.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 8, 2005 LARSON: THE PRESIDENT
02.07.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 7, 2005 Connecticut Lawmakers Outline Specific Questions for U.S. Navy on Marine One Contract Award WASHINGTON - In anticipation of the Connecticut Delegation?s briefing Wednesday with the U.S. Navy regarding the Marine One contract award, the delegation today outlined a series of questions it would like answered during the meeting in a letter to Navy Secretary England. The Connecticut lawmakers expressed concern over the degree security requirements, performance characteristics, and the extent to which American content was considered. The delegation requested a briefing after learning the Marine One contract was awarded to a European consortium. The Marine One has manufactured by Sikorsky Aircraft in Stratford, Connecticut for more than fifty years. ?We continue to believe that the President, our Commander-in-Chief, should fly in the very best helicopter made entirely in America. The only one that meets that standard is Sikorsky,? wrote the lawmakers. ?This decision will have far-reaching consequences for national security, the health of our national aerospace industry, and job security of the dedicated employees of Sikorsky. We look forward to discussing these important issues with you.? The full text of the letter follows. February 7, 2005 The Honorable Gordon R. England Secretary of the Navy 1000 Navy Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20350-1000 Dear Mr. Secretary: We look forward to meeting with you on February 9 to discuss the Navy?s decision to award the Marine One contract. We are surprised and disappointed by this decision. So that we can understand it, we ask that you be prepared to discuss the following at our meeting: The key performance characteristics that were measured for the competition between the EH-101 and the VH-92. The weighting of key performance characteristics. Which were considered most important? Which were considered least? How were those judgments made? The score of each helicopter in those parameters. The degree to which American content was considered. The extent to which the ability of each bidder to meet security requirements was considered. Whether both helicopters met the standards described in the requirements. If so, what characteristics were used as discriminators to determine the final selection? Assistant Secretary Young stated the EH-101 was ?less risky and more likely to come in at cost.? We would like to understand what data informed that statement. We continue to believe that the President, our Commander-in-Chief, should fly in the very best helicopter made entirely in America. The only one that meets that standard is Sikorsky. This decision will have far-reaching consequences for national security, the health of our national aerospace industry, and job security of the dedicated employees of Sikorsky. We look forward to discussing these important issues with you. Sincerely, CHRISTOPHER J. DODD United States Senator JOSEPH I. LIEBERMAN United States Senator ROSA DELAURO Member of Congress CHRISTOPHER SHAYS Member of Congress JOHN LARSON Member of Congress NANCY JOHNSON Member of Congress ROB SIMMONS Member of Congress ###
02.02.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: February 2, 2005 LARSON STATEMENT ON THE PRESIDENT?S STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS WASHINGTON, D.C. ? U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today gave the following statement on the president?s State of the Union address. ?One of the reasons our union has been strong for decades is because Social Security has benefited generation after generation of Americans since its creation,? said Larson. ?Despite the fact the president frequently speaks in generalities, it is clear his administration intends to dismantle that success by draining money from the system and tying millions of retirements to the ups and downs of the financial markets. Creating private accounts will be a boon for Wall Street, but a bust for most Americans. The system is not in crisis, but it will always need to be addressed and adjusted to accommodate future retirees. Scrapping the system as we know it is not the answer. ?The president labels this effort as creating an ownership society, but it?s apparent that he is really working to create a ?me society.? This means dismantling core institutions like Social Security to satisfy the financial sector at the expense of everyone else. Fortunately, I believe most Americans recognize that simply because one person is able to invest wisely, not everyone is, and for the good of millions of future retirees, the promise of Social Security must be kept for everyone. Private accounts that take money away from the system have the potential to benefit the very few who are either lucky or experts at managing money in the stock market. But for millions of others that will not be the case. Needed retirement benefits will be lost, Social Security will be destabilized and benefits will be cut. We?re told to do the math. The fact of the matter is that creating private accounts will drain $2 trillion dollars from the system over 10 years and up to $15 trillion over 40 years. ?A solid retirement has always been based on the three legged stool model of pensions, savings and Social Security. Social Security is a safety net. It?s insurance against lost pensions or savings that have been exhausted. For many Americans who worked hard and played by the rules, its their only benefit. Privatizing the system will downsize its impact, minimize its benefits and maximize profits on Wall Street. ?With regard to foreign policy, we all join the president in congratulating the Iraqi people on the large turnout in the election there. This event also opens the door to an exit strategy for U.S. troops. It is neither tactical nor strategic to have an open ended policy that does not involve our allies in the process of stabilizing Iraq. Rotating American troops out and replacing them with international forces would give us the opportunity to refocus our efforts on Osama bin Laden and al Qaeda, who were, after all, the ones that brought down the World Trade towers.? ###
01.28.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 28, 2005 LARSON STATEMENT ON MARINE ONE DECISION HARTFORD- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today gave the following statement on the decision of the Defense Department to award the contract for the Marine One Presidential Helicopter to a consortium that includes a foreign company, instead of the Connecticut-based American manufacturer, Sikorksy. ?Clearly this is a great disappointment for the state and an embarrassment for the nation,? said Larson. ?Sikorsky has been producing the Marine One presidential helicopter fleet since the Eisenhower administration and now future presidents will be flying in a helicopter made in part by a foreign company. Today?s decision is not just about one contract for one kind of aircraft. It is a symptom of a more serious illness, which is the European Union?s effort to overtake the U.S. in the aerospace and aviation market, resulting in a loss of U.S. jobs and American work being sent overseas. The fact the decision to award this contract to a consortium that includes a European company was made by our own Defense Department is a slap in the face to Connecticut and American aerospace workers.? ###
01.26.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 26, 2005 LARSON NAMED TO WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE'S TRADE AND REVENUE SUBCOMMITTEES WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) was today named to the House Ways and Means Subcommittees on Trade and Select Revenue Measures. ?It will be a privilege to serve on these subcommittees and I look forward to working with my colleagues,? said Larson. ?The strength of Connecticut's economy is rooted in our exports and I will work hard to ensure our businesses and our workers maintain their economic and competitive position in the international markets. ?While my top priorities for this Congress will continue to be protecting Social Security and strengthening Medicare, it is a great honor to serve on both subcommittees, which play a role of equal importance for the State of Connecticut.? The Subcommittee on Select Revenue Measures handles tax issues determined by the Chairman. The Subcommittee on Trade has jurisdiction over tariff and import issues and special tariff provisions and procedures including import impact, industry relief from injurious imports, adjustment assistance and programs to encourage competitive responses to imports. It also covers unfair import practices and import policy which relates to dependence on foreign sources of supply; implementation of agreements involving trade issues, international rules, organizations and international trade agreements. The subcommittee also determines budget authorizations for the U.S. Customs Service, the U.S. International Trade Commission, and the U.S. Trade Representative. It also oversees special trade-related problems involving market access, competitive conditions of specific industries, export policy and promotion, access to materials in short supply, bilateral trade relations including trade with developing countries and operations of multinational corporations. ###
01.25.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 25, 2005 Connecticut Delegation Introduces Bill to Protect Long Island Sound WASHINGTON - Senator Joe Lieberman and Congressman Rob Simmons led members of the Connecticut and New York delegations in reintroducing legislation to establish a new system to preserve the environmental quality of the Long Island Sound (LIS). More than a decade ago, the Environmental Protection Agency identified the LIS region as vulnerable to degradation and with the Senators' support established the Long Island Sound Study to develop a plan for protection of the Sound. Study results released in 2002 concluded that coordinated action to save the Sound was necessary. Building on several of the study
01.20.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 20, 2005 LARSON STATEMENT ON THE PRESIDENT?S INAUGURAL ADDRESS WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) gave the following statement on President Bush's inaugural address this afternoon. ?Regardless of where one falls on the political spectrum, this is always a meaningful day,? said Larson. ?While I obviously hoped that someone else would be taking the oath of office this afternoon, every presidential inauguration reminds us of the peaceful, constitutional flow of power in the United States and that is a source of great pride. The president sounded several hopeful themes in his speech and I applaud his call for public service and the healing divisions in our nation. ?I echo the praise that the president had for our troops who have done a tremendous job under the most difficult of circumstances. However, despite his broad language and platitudes, he and his administration must face facts when it comes to our situation Iraq. While our troops have followed their orders and performed remarkably, the administration?s unrealistic pre-war predictions and impossibly poor planning have rendered their foreign policy a failure. ?It is long past the time for his administration to level with our troops and their families about the length of their deployments. The United States needs to build a clear path forward out of Iraq. We must establish a time certain for our troops to leave and ensure that international coalition troops take their place, which will require us to work with our allies. This will allow us to refocus our efforts on fighting al Queda and Osama bin Laden. This effort needs to be matched with a real plan for energy independence and a humanitarian policy to stifle the growth of radicalism due to poverty and hunger in the world, which breeds generations of terrorists. This will truly expand freedom and help end tyranny across the globe, as the president said he wished to do. ?The president alluded to a plan to partially privatize Social Security. While changes will certainly have to be made to the system over time, as Congress has done in the past when the situation called for it, the threats to Social Security?s longevity are being wildly exaggerated. I cannot support a plan that calls for pouring money into private accounts. This will drain funds from the Social Security system, tie millions of retirements to the ups and downs of the financial markets and in the end could mean dramatically reduced benefits for retirees. ?Despite the positive words in his speech, we have many difficult realities to face at home and abroad over the next four years. The president?s massive tax cuts for the wealthy means we have the biggest deficits in the nation's history and are facing serious budget cuts to our most important priorities. The president and the Congress have a great deal of work ahead of us. I will continue working hard to protect the best interests of my constituents and the nation and I look forward to finding common ground wherever possible as we address the major issues facing the nation.? ###
01.19.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 19, 2005 LARSON ANNOUNCES $155,480 FEDERAL HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT FOR BLOOMFIELD BLOOMFIELD- The Blue Hills Volunteer Fire Department in Bloomfield has been awarded $155,480 from the Department of Homeland Security through the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program. The department will use the funds to upgrade and purchase breathing apparatus and communications equipment. ?The department?s goal has been purchase and upgrade this critical equipment both to protect their firefighters and meet national firefighter safety standards,? said Larson. ?This funding will give the department the opportunity to meet that goal so they can best serve the community and minimize the danger to their volunteers. Firefighters, police officers, and emergency medical personnel represent the front lines in the effort to keep our communities and our families safe and we must do everything we can to make sure they have the resources they need.? This round of the 2004 Assistance to Firefighter grants awarded more than $13.3 million to fire departments around the nation, including Bloomfield. The grant program helps local fire departments fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical services programs, conduct fire education and prevention programs and fund the purchase of equipment. In April 2004 Larson wrote to the Department of Homeland Security to urge that today's funding be awarded to Bloomfield's Blue Hills Fire Department. ###
01.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 5, 2005 LARSON NAMED TO HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) was today named to the House Ways and Means Committee by the Democratic Caucus. The Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over legislation relating to tax law, Social Security, Medicare, public assistance and trade issues. ?I am proud to name John Larson to the House Ways and Means Committee,? House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi said. ?John is a talented and extremely effective Member of Congress, and he will make a substantial impact on this critical Committee. As a strong advocate for seniors, his work on the Committee this session will be critical to protecting and strengthening Social Security for seniors and future generations.? ?I am honored and grateful that Mrs. Pelosi, Congressman Rangel and my colleagues have given me the opportunity to serve on this key committee,? said Larson. ?Ways and Means obviously oversees major legislative areas that are of the utmost importance to the nation and to Connecticut. This is something of a tradition for Connecticut?s First Congressional District as my two immediate predecessors - Barbara Kennelly and William Cotter - also held this seat. I will certainly work hard to continue their tradition of dedicated service and look forward to working with my good friend and colleague from Connecticut, Nancy Johnson and Ranking Member Rangel and other members of the committee.? ### For more about the committee visit: https://www.house.gov/waysandmeans_democrats/
01.05.2005	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: January 5, 2005 DELEGATION MEMBERS URGE BUSH ADMINISTRATION NOT TO CUT F-22 FUNDING WASHINGTON, D.C.- Senator Christopher Dodd and Reps. Nancy Johnson, Christopher Shays, Rosa DeLauro, John Larson and Rob Simmons today voiced strong opposition to possible cuts by the Bush administration to the F/A-22 fighter program. In a letter to White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card, the delegation members stated that cuts to the program were ?ill-advised and untimely given the operational shortfalls facing our military and the threats facing our nation.? The text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. Card: We understand that the Department of Defense is considering cutting funding in the fiscal year 2006-2010 President's budget request for the F/A-22 Raptor. We believe that these cuts are ill-advised and untimely given the operational shortfalls facing our military and the threats facing our nation. Specifically, the F-15C is no longer the most sophisticated fighter aircraft in the world. This fact places the safety of US forces around the world at risk until a suitable replacement is fielded that can ensure air superiority. The only aircraft in development that can fulfill this requirement is the F/A-22 Raptor. Limiting production to one hundred seventy Raptors, as the Department is considering, will result in an F/A-22 fleet too small to achieve the global air superiority requirements that our Nation's global presence requires. Halting the fighter modernization program already underway will have significant force protection and recruiting and retention consequences. Current operational fighters like the F-15 cannot be further modified to encompass new stealth technologies and other capabilities needed to protect pilots from advanced surface to air missiles and air defenses. The F/A-22 is the first stealthy fighter/attack aircraft that combines supersonic speed without resort to afterburners (requiring extra fuel), maneuverability via thrust vectoring engines, and the fusion of multi-sensor avionics via-computers enabling pilots to destroy enemy aircraft and ground-based air defenses at greater standoff ranges than an F-15. Additionally, the F-15 was developed in the mid-1970s and is now over 30 years old. We are deeply concerned that given the already significant downward trend in recruiting and retention the military is facing, cutting this program will send a clear message to our airmen and airwomen that their government feels they can make do with outdated technology. We urge the Department to re-consider these ill-advised cuts that will negatively affect the future readiness and capability of the United States Air Force and the future security of our country. Additionally, we will ensure this issue receives full debate and consideration during Congressional deliberations over the fiscal year 2006 defense authorization and appropriation bills. Sincerely, S/ Senator Christopher J. Dodd S/ Congresswoman Nancy Johnson S/ Congressman Christopher Shays S/ Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro S/ Congressman John Larson S/ Congressman Rob Simmons ###
12.14.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 14, 2004 LARSON ANNOUNCES $700,000 FEDERAL GRANT FOR HARTFORD YOUTHBUILD PROGRAM HARTFORD- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today announced that Co-Opportunity Inc. of Hartford has been awarded a $700,000 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to fund its YouthBuild community development program. The YouthBuild program offers job training, education, counseling, job replacement and leadership development opportunities to unemployed and out-of-school young adults, ages 18-24, through involvement in the construction and rehabilitation of affordable housing in their community.
12.10.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 10, 2004 LARSON URGES BUSH TO ENGAGE OPEC NATIONS TO PREVENT DECREASE IN OIL PRODUCTION WASHINGTON, D.C.-U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today sent the following letter to President Bush urging him to engage the OPEC nations in an effort to convince them not to decrease oil production, citing the devastating effect it would have on the nation's economy. The text of the letter follows: Dear President Bush: I am writing today to urge you to engage the OPEC nations immediately and convince them not to decrease oil production. Any additional decrease in production at this time will have a devastating effect on the nation's economy and on families about to face the full force of winter, especially given the summer supply disruptions caused by this season's hurricanes that have contributed to the extremely low overall US inventories. The Department of Energy
12.07.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: December 7, 2004 LARSON STATEMENT ON INTELLIGENCE REFORM WASHINGTON, D.C.- U.S. Congressman John B. Larson (CT-1) today gave the following statement on the intelligence reform bill before the House. Larson will vote in favor of the bill. ?After a long wait for this legislation to move forward, bipartisanship and the will of the American people are on the brink of success in the House tonight,? said Larson. ?This reform is now long overdue and it is unfortunate that it had to suffer the partisan games the House Leadership played with the bill in recent months, instead of taking action. ?I hope that the long delay does not come at a higher cost than the few bruised egos of those unwilling and unable to work in a bipartisan manner when the national security of this nation was threatened. ?It should not be lost on any member of Congress that we are debating this legislation on December 7, the anniversary of another day of infamy, which like 9/11 forever changed the future course of this country and generations of Americans. It is my hope that this legislation will help better protect the nation and prevent such attacks in the future,? said Larson. ###
11.23.2004	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: November 23, 2004 DODD, LIEBERMAN, LARSON INTRODUCE BILL ENSURING FAIRNESS IN EITC PILOT STUDY WASHINGTON - Senators Chris Dodd and Joe Lieberman and Rep. John Larson Friday introduced legislation that would ensure fairness in the way the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) conducts its Earned Income Tax Credit pre-certification pilot test. The bill would require that the pool of people chosen for the test be randomly selected from a broad geographical range so as not to unfairly burden one community. While the odds of passage are long, the three Congressional members introduced the bill to demonstrate their continued opposition to the burden this study places on the people of the Hartford area, and their ongoing commitment to try to minimize that burden.
