03.15.2019	Pinch Me – This must be a Nightmare By Congressman Mike Simpson Boise, ID – “St. Patrick’s Day bears some unique traditions. The idea that forgetting to wear green for the day could cause you to get pinched could be described by some as crazy or even loony. Yet, it’s all in good fun. “A reporter recently asked about how I felt about the Green New Deal and I called it ‘Crazy and Loony‘. Unlike a holiday tradition, this legislation is not all in good fun. Proposed as an economic and environmental transformation, the Green New Deal is an irresponsible ploy that should have our nation green with nausea rather than envy. “Last week, we celebrated National Agriculture Week. In Idaho we understand the journey from farm to table. The crusade against “farting cows” might be considered noble or a bit funny by some in the Bronx, but to the ranchers who are up before the sun feeding cows, this isn’t a joke. The attempts of the Green New Deal to devastate the agriculture industry do not go unnoticed in Idaho. “It isn’t just the attack on our agriculture community that makes this a bad deal. Architects of the Green New Deal fail to embrace the essential role that nuclear energy will have in the future of clean, renewable energy. Any serious attempt at promoting a carbon free solution would place a priority on the backbone of US carbon-free energy - nuclear power. It sounds like a visit to the Idaho National Lab to see the groundbreaking innovation would be of value to many of my colleagues who support this ‘new deal’. “With a price tag that could be as much as 93 trillion dollars, yes that’s with a ‘t', you can start seeing where the term ‘Green’ comes from. At 93 trillion, the Green New Deal would cost more than the entire recorded spending of the US since the Constitution went into effect in 1789. Compare that to a more contemporary number, the World Bank estimates the global gross domestic product at 81 trillion. On top of that, this debt is built on a premise that insults hard working Americans by guaranteeing a living wage even if you are “unwilling” to work. If someone is getting a deal here, it is not the taxpayers. “As I speak with constituents about this issue, I ensure them that I place a high priority in being a good steward over this land. I have and will continue to work across the aisle to protect our forests and to promote alternative energy research. But to sell out one of our most important industries, and to saddle ourselves with an insurmountable debt, well frankly that would be just crazy and loony.” ###
03.11.2019	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Russ Fulcher lauded Acting Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt’s announcement that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) will propose a rule to delist the gray wolf in the lower 48 states. This decision would build on the successful recovery of the species and the successful implementation of delisting in the State of Idaho which has responsibly managed the species. “This is a smart, sound, scientific decision that recognizes the successful efforts of states and local partners who have dedicated time and resources to conserving and maintaining a healthy wolf population,” said Congressman Simpson. “No doubt this decision recognizes the State of Idaho and its effective management of the species following delisting in 2011. I applaud Acting Secretary Bernhardt for this decision which will return wolf management back to the states where it belongs.” “The excess population of wolves in Idaho has proven detrimental to our economy, ranchers, and natural resources,” said Congressman Russ Fulcher. “I am extremely pleased with Acting Secretary Bernhardt’s decision to delist the gray wolf and I will continue to support efforts to undo federal government overreach.” In 2011, Congressman Simpson inserted language into the annual appropriations bill which overturned the August 2010 decision by a district court in Montana to put wolves in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Utah back on the endangered species list, in spite of the fact that these populations had met and exceeded recovery goals. The language directed the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue its 2009 decision to delist wolves in Idaho and Montana within 60 days of enactment. During the Obama Administration, USFWS Director Dan Ashe told Congressman Simpson at a House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, that states had responsible management plans, wolves met their recovery goals, and warranted delisting. The proposed rule is anticipated to be published in the Federal Register which will initiate a public comment period.
02.26.2019	On Tuesday, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported final passage of S. 47, the Natural Resources Management Act. The legislation includes over 100 individual bills which deliver local solutions to public lands issues, primarily in the west. The bill includes two bills authored by Congressman Simpson that resolve boundary adjustments and management of recreation facilities. S. 47 also permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which supports conservation on public lands and state grant programs. The bill passed by a broad bipartisan vote of 363-62. “I am thrilled to see so many pieces of local legislation honored in the public lands package,” said Congressman Simpson. “Many of these bills are local issues that require an act of Congress to fix and I am happy to report that two Idaho bills were included in the package. It is also important that LWCF is reauthorized because it has a history of conserving, protecting, and constructing public lands and local parks. We have so many examples in our own backyard, whether you are hiking in the SNRA or recreating in the Boise foothills, this program has improved access to the outdoors in Idaho.” Included in S. 47, is H.R. 482 and H.R. 483, two bills authored by Congressman Mike Simpson and introduced on the Senate side by Senator Jim Risch. H.R. 482 authorizes the Forest Service to allow routine maintenance of a recreation facility in Central Idaho and update outdated and fire-prone energy equipment with renewable sources. H.R. 483 allows for a minor boundary adjustment in Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study Area to correct a property line on federal land. The LWCF reauthorization is nearly identical to Congressman Simpson’s LAND Act, which includes the LWCF reauthorization and funding to address the backlog in our National Park system. President Trump is expected to sign the bill into law as the Senate passed the bill 92-8 on February 12th. ###
02.14.2019	Washington, D.C. - Today, the Idaho Congressional Delegation voted to pass H.J. Res. 31, which funds the rest of government through the end of fiscal year 2019. The legislation contains many important priorities that will directly benefit Idaho and provide funding for border security. Specifically, the legislation funds the Agriculture; Commerce, Justice, Science; Interior and Environment; Financial Services; State and Foreign Operations; Transportation, Housing and Urban Development; and Homeland Security and Related Agencies appropriations bills for fiscal year 2019. “I supported today’s measure because it takes a step toward making our communities safer. Bicameral, bipartisan appropriators diligently advanced a compromise proposal that addresses urgent priorities in the seven outstanding appropriations packages. For homeland security, this agreement provides more than $1.3 billion for physical security barriers along portions of our border that have been designated as the highest priority by our Border Patrol. Additionally, it provides an unprecedented $22.5 billion for overall border security initiatives that includes law enforcement personnel and drug trafficking prevention. Locally, this bill will also fund the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program, which provides funding to Idaho’s counties to make up for lost revenues from federal ownership of lands,” said Senator Mike Crapo. “The President has also indicated he intends to declare a national emergency to use specific powers to secure our border. We need additional physical barriers securing our border. In the coming days, I will work closely with my Senate colleagues and with the White House to learn the details of the President’s intentions and how they will be implemented.” “We need significantly more than 55 miles of wall to fully protect our southern border, but this bill makes a down-payment on the wall while future funding is negotiated. Plus, I absolutely did not want to see another government shutdown. Shutdowns are bad for our economy and bad for the American people. We will keep working until the entire border wall is funded,” said Senator James E. Risch. “I’m very pleased that the Congress has fulfilled its most basic of obligations through this agreement to keep the government open. As in all compromises, neither side got everything they wanted. But at the end of the day, this legislation provides Idaho with the necessary funding and policy provisions to help rural counties, prevent and fight wildfires, and includes important research for our agricultural economy,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “It moves the ball forward in our border security efforts and will allow the Administration to continue its successful and necessary efforts to roll back regulations and deliver the tax cuts which were passed during the last Congress.” “This is a less than perfect bill and a less than perfect process, but here is what it came down to for me: H.J. Res. 31 provides about $22 Bi in funding for border security and nearly $1.4 Bi directly for a physical barrier -- both critical for security and humanitarian purposes. Other components include support for Israel and the blocking of federal funds used for abortions,” said Congressman Russ Fulcher. “The bill also funds two efforts affecting Idaho that cannot afford to be neglected: Wildfire suppression and the PILT program (payment in lieu of taxes) -- lifelines for our counties that are predominantly comprised of federal lands. It is unfortunate that bills like this contain such broad content. I am working hard to introduce a single-subject clause in Congress to avoid situations like this in the future.” The legislation specifically delivers $1.375 billion for 55 miles of wall or physical barriers in addition to increased technology to combat human and drug trafficking. The bill also contains numerous provisions which directly benefit Idaho. Includes full funding for Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) which results in Idaho counties receiving more than $30 million, which fulfills the federal government’s responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal lands. Provides full funding for the 10-year average for wildfire suppression costs at the Forest Service and Department of the Interior including an additional $500 million for the Forest Service suppression operations. The fire-borrowing fix that was championed by the Idaho delegation will be implemented in fiscal year 2020. Retains previous years’ cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and specifically reduces the regulatory programs by over $15 million and prioritizes funding for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan fund, which states and local governments use for water infrastructure projects. Includes language that prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species and adequate funding for sage grouse conservation. Continues previous years’ language that blocks the proposed closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. Directs EPA, U.S Department of Agriculture (USDA), and DOE to establish clear policies regarding the carbon neutrality of biomass, which is an important energy source and part of an all of the above energy strategy. Includes language reiterating to the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service that States' have jurisdiction over water law and the expectation that all applicable laws will be followed when considering a request for a permit or permit renewal. Includes funding for Native American communities to help improve infrastructure and health care needs. Includes language that directs the Bureau of Land Management to work with the State of Idaho on aquifer recharge. Includes language directing the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based on existing standards, which is similar to Senator Risch and Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan DAIRY Pride Act. Includes language that reverses an Obama era regulation that created barriers for potatoes to be included in the school breakfast program. The rider was inserted by Congressman Simpson during a House Appropriations Committee markup seen here. Provides funding for the USDA Rural Utilities Service Circuit Rider program, which helps fund rural communities to provide safe and affordable drinking water. Provides funding for National Institutes of Food and Agriculture for potato and wheat research. The legislation was passed by a large bipartisan vote in both the House and Senate and will now head to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
02.06.2019	Simpson and Kilmer Introduce LAND Act to Enhance Federal Investment in Public Lands Conservation bill would permanently reauthorize LWCF and create new dedicated funding to address the maintenance backlog at National Parks and other public lands Today, Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Congressman Derek Kilmer (D-WA) introduced the Land and National Park Deferred Maintenance (LAND) Act. The legislation would permanently reauthorize the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF), create a new dedicated fund to address the Department of the Interior’s deferred maintenance backlog, and provide ten years of mandatory funding derived from energy revenues for both programs. “Conserving land and water is vitally important to ensuring access to our public lands,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “However, ensuring we take care of public lands is equally important. That is why I am proposing a solution that honors the commitment to the Land and Water Conservation Fund while creating a new fund to help our National Parks, and other land managers, address the maintenance backlog. These lands belong to all Americans and we owe it to ourselves to take care of them. This reasonable approach ensures we have the resources to conserve and maintain our treasured landscapes.” “Growing up on the Olympic Peninsula, I’ve seen firsthand how our National Park and public lands have captivated visitors and created generations of jobs,” said Congressman Derek Kilmer. “But unfortunately, many of our most iconic landscapes and visitor experiences are falling into disrepair. I’m proud to join this bipartisan effort that will be an economic boost to rural communities and keep our public lands accessible for future generations.” “There’s overwhelming bipartisan support for making this long-overdue investment in the aging infrastructure within our national parks and public lands,” said Marcia Argust, director of The Pew Charitable Trusts’ project to restore America’s parks. “The legislation will help preserve historic treasures, protect visitor access, and sustain local economies and jobs.” “Hunters and anglers are proud to support the bipartisan LAND Act, which sets aside funding to increase public access for outdoor recreation,” said Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership. “This bill supports the permanent authorization of the successful Land and Water Conservation Fund and begins to address the massive maintenance backlog in our national parks. We want to thank Congressmen Simpson and Kilmer for their commitment to sportsmen and women across this country, and we look forward to advancing these priorities.” “The Land and Water Conservation Fund is our most effective, successful program for conserving important lands and waters and providing public access great places to hunt, fish and recreate,” said Land Tawney, Backcountry Hunters & Anglers President and CEO. “The bipartisan bill introduced by Representatives Simpson and Kilmer not only reauthorizes LWCF; it also increases to 3 percent funding earmarked for enhancing hunting and fishing opportunities on public lands. It’s consistent with other LWCF-focused legislation being considered, and Representatives Simpson and Kilmer deserve thanks for their leadership in addressing LWCF and the public land agencies’ maintenance backlog in a productive way.” The LWCF was established in 1964 to reinvest a small percentage of offshore oil and gas royalty payments in conservation projects to enhance access to our nation’s iconic outdoor spaces. Since it was first created, the LWCF has invested more than $18 billion in projects that support environmental stewardship, outdoor recreation, and historic preservation. The LAND Act would permanently reauthorize LWCF, which expired last year, and authorize $450 million annually in mandatory expenditures for the next decade. The bill would also authorize $450 million in mandatory expenditures annually for ten years to fund the National Park Service and Related Agencies Maintenance and Revitalization Conservation Fund. The current Department of Interior maintenance backlog, which includes National Parks, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Refuges, Bureau of Land Management, and Bureau of Indian Education school construction, totals more than $18 billion. For a link to the text click here.
02.05.2019	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement following President Trump’s State of the Union address. “President Trump showed us tonight that the things that unite us are much greater than that which divides us. I’m pleased he began his remarks with a mission to work together, as Americans, not Republicans, not Democrats, but citizens of our great nation. I have long agreed with the message the President reiterated tonight stating, ‘We must resist revenge and compromise for the common good,’ I hope Congress will respond to the call. “Our country is on a strong economic path and the President reminded Americans of the millions of new jobs created in the last two years. Thanks to tax reform, our country is seeing the benefits of increased wages and job creation for working families. “The President laid out several bipartisan goals; addressing our countries infrastructure needs, ensuring trade deals support agriculture, lowering the costs of prescription drugs, cover pre-existing conditions, and supporting cancer research. I look forward to working with the President and members of both parties to secure our border, enact meaningful immigration reform, and address DACA. “I also deeply appreciated the President condemning the unspeakable practice of late term abortions. I will proudly join with him in advocating for the rights of the unborn.” ###
01.25.2019	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement addressing the announcement of the end of the temporary government shutdown. “I applaud the decision to end the temporary government shutdown. My message has remained consistent - when we come together and put partisan disputes aside, we can begin to govern in a way that will make the American people proud. I remain committed to finding a long term solution for funding for the rest of the fiscal year including appropriate border security measures.” To learn more of Congressman Simpson’s positions on the government shutdown visit his Website or follow him on Facebook and Twitter.
01.10.2019	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Russ Fulcher introduced legislation that would authorize important but routine maintenance at Smith Gulch on the Salmon River in Idaho. The bill would allow the use of limited maintenance equipment needed to maintain the routine functions and safety of the existing lodge. “The proposed bill is an effort to clarify Congress’ intent in legislation passed in 2004 to retain the basic characteristics of the Lodge without substantially altering the existing use,” said Simpson. “The use of maintenance equipment would allow the lodge to eliminate the reliance on outdated energy sources and replace them with modest renewable energy sources, all while complying with existing laws.” “The government should never hinder the ability of Idahoans to improve our own communities. I am happy to join Congressman Simpson to clear up this misunderstanding and maximize the use of federal lands,” said Fulcher. “I look forward to seeing the needed improvements to our recreation facility at Smith Gulch.” Currently, the Forest Service does not believe it has clear authorization to permit the use of the equipment necessary for the general upkeep of the facilities at the lodge. This bill clarifies the authorization so the corridor can be managed as it was intended under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives in 2014 by a vote of 398-1 and was included in the public lands package that was introduced at the end of the 115th Congress and again in the 116th. Senators Jim Risch and Mike Crapo introduced companion legislation. ###
01.08.2019	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson introduced legislation last week to address the federal judicial crisis in Idaho. H.R. 214 allows the President to appoint one additional federal district judge for the district of Idaho, increasing the number of district judges to three. Idaho Congressman Russ Fulcher is a cosponsor of the bill. “As the legal community in Idaho well knows, the state of Idaho is facing a federal judicial crisis,” said Simpson. “We are one of just three states in the nation with only two federal judge seats for the entire state. This means our federal judges have an extraordinary caseload and high number of weighted filings per judgeship. As we all know, justice delayed is justice denied, and it is beyond time to authorize another judgeship for Idaho.” The federal district of Idaho has had just two federal district judges since 1954, when the population of the state was at 600,000. It is now at 1.7 million and growing, and as Idaho’s population grows, so does the number of court cases. As a result, the nonpartisan Judicial Conference of the United States has formally recommend that Congress authorize one new permanent district judge in Idaho consistently since 2003. “I have long advocated for adding an additional judgeship in Idaho because the need is great,” added Simpson. “Idahoans deserve a fair and efficient federal court system, and this bill would go a long way towards ensuring their Constitutional access to justice. I am pleased that Congressman Fulcher has already joined me in this effort.” “This initiative is a great way to start the new Congress, working alongside my fellow Idahoan, Congressman Simpson, to alleviate our state’s judicial backlog,” said Fulcher. “Appointing an additional judge will help to lessen the growing backlog of cases, deliver quicker service to our constituents, and make our judicial system more efficient. This shortage has faced Idaho for far too long, and I am pleased to make this effort one of my first actions in Congress.” H.R. 214 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for further consideration.
12.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement thanking U.S. Secretary of Interior Ryan Zinke for his service to our country: “I thank Secretary Zinke for his great service to this country, most recently as Secretary of the Interior. Whether it was working with local Idahoans on Gateway West and sage grouse conservation, or national issues like the need to fix our national parks, Secretary Zinke addressed these issues with a balanced perspective that led to positive results. I wish him well in the next chapter of his honorable career in public service and I thank him for his friendship - both as Secretary and in Congress.”
12.12.2018	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted in favor of H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act which is the conference report for the Farm Bill. The legislation reauthorizes many important programs for industries in Idaho like potatoes, dairy, grain, and sugar beets. “The Farm Bill represents one of the most vital pieces of legislation for Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “Whether it is the specialty crop programs for our potatoes or retaining the integrity of the no cost sugar program for beet producers, this bill touches on the most critical parts of Idaho’s agriculture economy. I was pleased to vote in favor of legislation that provides the certainty farmers and ranchers need to succeed.” Specifically, the legislation includes important Idaho provisions such as: The Specialty Crop Research Initiative which provides important support for potato research; The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops to support foreign trade for Idaho products; The Foreign Market Development Program which helps Idaho farmers reach foreign markets; For the first time the new Farm Bill offers dairy producers the opportunity to participate in both crop insurance-type and farm bill safety net risk management programs for milk; Retains the U.S. Sugar Program which operates at no cost to taxpayers and is critical to the success of sugar beet farmers in Idaho. H.R. 2 also includes forest management provisions which builds on the historic forestry reforms Congressman Simpson included in the 2018 Omnibus Appropriations bill. The Senate passed the Farm Bill on Tuesday and Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue has stated he will recommend President Trump sign the bill into law. To learn more about the Farm Bill visit: https://agriculture.house.gov/farmbill/
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. - The Department of the Interior (DOI) announced the availability of the Final Environmental Impact Statement and proposed plan amendments addressing Greater Sage-Grouse conservation on public land in Idaho last week. The proposal seeks to align the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) resource management plans with Idaho’s state management plan. “I am pleased to see the collaborative work produced by Governor Otter and DOI,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho worked hard on their state management plan which received high marks from the Fish and Wildlife Service. To see DOI recognizing the benefits of the state plan means we are putting Idaho based solutions on the ground which works to protect sage-grouse from their primary threats in our region. I thank Secretary Zinke, Deputy Secretary Bernhardt, and Governor Otter for their hard work on this proposed solution.” The publication in the federal register will start a 30 day protest period for public comments to be submitted to the BLM. Congressman Simpson has long been a leader on the issue, having inserted language into the Interior Appropriations bill delaying the listing of sage-grouse which has allowed DOI the time to make sound scientific decisions – not an arbitrary deadline set by the courts.
11.28.2018	Washington, D.C. - Today, the U.S. House passed the bipartisan Action for Dental Health Act. This bipartisan legislation, introduced by Congressman Mike Simpson, DMD (R-ID) and Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL), will provide essential oral and dental health services to underserved communities. The Action for Dental Health Act targets federal funding to provide vulnerable populations, especially children, seniors and those living in rural and urban communities with dental care. The legislation was originally passed the U.S. House in February with ninety percent of Members voting in favor of the legislation. A slightly amended version was introduced in the U.S. Senate and passed in October 2018. With today’s vote, the legislation advances to the President’s desk for his signature. “With today’s passage of Action for Dental Health, we are sending a message that oral health is a priority for Congress,” Congressman Simpson said. “I would like to thank Congresswoman Kelly for her work on this legislation and I am excited to see this bill move to the President’s desk. Ultimately, the real winners are patients who need improved access to resources to enhance early diagnosis, intervention and preventive treatments which can stop the progress of oral diseases.” “This bipartisan bill means that more families will have access to oral and dental healthcare. This increased access to care means that patients will receive early detection and intervention resulting in better outcomes, reduced costs and improved health,” said Congresswoman Kelly. “I’d especially like to thank Congressman Mike Simpson for his steadfast leadership, expertise and partnership.” The Action for Dental Health Act won the endorsement of the American Dental Association, the National Dental Association, the American Dental Education Association, Academy of General Dentistry, Oral Health America, and many other organizations. During the House subcommittee hearing on the measure, Chicago dentist Dr. Cheryl Watson-Lowry testified on the importance of the bill.
09.28.2018	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted this week for a series of bills aimed at protecting and expanding the historic wins accomplished by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) of 2017. Between the three bills, the “Tax Reform 2.0” package makes permanent the individual income tax provision of the TCJA and makes it easier for individuals to save for retirement, education, and other family expenses. The legislation package passed with bipartisan support. “Tax Reform 2.0 builds on the success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act from 2017,” said Simpson. “With the passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we jump-started the economy by creating more jobs and increasing optimism on Main Street. Consumer confidence is at a nearly twenty year high, businesses are investing in their employees, and GDP grew by over four percent last quarter. Tax Reform 2.0 expands on that success by giving American families long term certainty through making the individual tax cuts permanent. That means more money in the pockets of American families and individuals, so they can decide what is best for them. The bill also doubles the Child Tax Credit, establishes the Paid Family Leave Tax Credit, and makes the doubled exemption of the Death Tax from TCJA permanent.” Tax Reform 2.0 also makes permanent the 20 percent deduction for pass-through business income, locking in significant tax relief to Main Street job creators. Tax Reform 2.0 is comprised of the following bills: H.R. 6760, the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act of 2018, would make the individual and small business tax cuts enacted in 2017 permanent. The Joint Committee on Taxation (JTC) estimates that this provision will increase long-run GDP by 2.2 percent and create 1.5 million new full-time jobs. Additionally, H.R. 6760 would extend the newly-expanded medical expense deduction through the 2020 tax year, allowing more individuals to deduct their medical expenses. H.R. 6757, the Family Savings Act of 2018, would create new incentives for retirement savings as well as a new type of tax-deferred savings account. Individuals will be able to contribute up to $2,500 into the accounts on an annual basis, and any withdrawals are tax free. This bill would make it easier for Americans to save for retirement, education, and other family expenses, and; H.R. 6756, the American Innovation Act of 2018, would help small businesses and encourages new entrepreneurs by allowing businesses to write off more of their initial start-up costs. Simply put, Tax Reform 2.0 puts the focus on families and small businesses. “When American voters chose Republicans to control the House, Senate, and White House, we made a promise to our constituents that we would deliver historic tax reforms,” said Simpson. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 fulfilled that promise, and Tax Reform 2.0 only doubles down on that success. I am proud to support this legislation and urge the Senate to move quickly to send these bills to the President’s desk.” ###
09.26.2018	Washington, D.C. - Significant progress was made Wednesday in Congressional Republicans’ efforts to return the annual federal appropriations process to regular order. Nearly one week before the end of the fiscal year, the House of Representatives approved the Conference Report for H.R. 6157, which includes the Department of Defense (DOD) and Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bills for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019, as well as a short term “continuing resolution” to fund the government until all 12 appropriations bills for FY 2019 can be signed into law. “Regular order” is an appropriations process which results in full year appropriations bills being signed into law before the end of the fiscal year. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, voted in favor of the legislation which passed by a bipartisan vote of 361-61. The Defense Appropriations title of the bill contains a total of $674.4 billion in funding for defense and security agencies, consistent with the National Defense Authorization Act of 2019. “H.R. 6157 represents a critical, positive step forward in rebuilding our military,” said Simpson. “The American people rely on our men and women in uniform to protect us at home and abroad, and it’s only right that we uphold our end of the bargain by ensuring that they have the resources they need to be ‘ready to fight tonight.’ For the first time in 20 years, the Department of Defense will have its full annual funding enacted before the end of the current fiscal year, and I am grateful to Defense Chairwoman Kay Granger and House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen for leading this bill over the finish line. The importance of passing this bill under regular order and the certainty it provides our troops can’t be emphasized enough.” The Defense title increases base discretionary funding at the DOD by $17 billion over FY 2018. The highlights from the bill include: The largest pay raise for our troops in nine years at 2.6%; $34 billion for the Defense Health Program, which funds cancer research, traumatic brain injury, psychological health research and more; $65 million to upgrade the critical A-10 aircraft fleet, based in part at Gowen Field in Boise; $2.3 billion to recruit and train more airmen and aircraft mechanics; and more. The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education title of the bill takes into account the unique challenges of federally impacted Americans by providing a much-needed funding increase to Federal Impact Aid. “Impact Aid is a vital program in Idaho where federally impacted school districts depend on its support to continue delivering a high-quality education to young Idahoans,” said Simpson. “This bill also includes lifesaving research funding for the National Institutes of Health and truly historic levels of funding to combat the opioid crisis. I have often said that NIH is the best kept secret, and the American people need to know that their tax dollars are going towards research that leads to cures for the most complex diseases we face.” The Labor-H title also provides: $1.06 billion for Federal TRIO programs to support college-bound veterans and first-generation and low-income students; $1.4 billion for Federal Impact Aid to provide support and relief for school districts affected by the presence of tax-exempt federal lands or federally-connected students; $39 billion to support the lifesaving research work of the National Institutes of Health, a $2 billion increase over fiscal year 2018. This includes funding for key initiatives such as finding cures for cancer, Alzheimer’s, and diabetes, and; An unprecedented $6.7 billion to help combat the opioid crisis through treatment and prevention efforts. Much of this funding is directed towards the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to improve addiction and recovery programs. H.R. 6157 passed in the Senate on September 18, 2018, and will now head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. His signature will mark the completion of five appropriations bills on time which accounts for roughly 80% of total discretionary spending. The first three, Energy and Water Development (authored by Congressman Simpson), Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch appropriations were signed into law on September 21, 2018. “While Congress certainly does not deserve trophies for doing our job, I am pleased that Republicans are leading a return to regular order and achieving the most progress in regards to annual appropriations in over a decade,” Simpson said. “The power of the purse is one of Congress’ most important Constitutional duties, and the completion of these five bills on time underscores Republicans’ commitment to transparency and responsible governance.” ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage of H.R. 5895, which includes the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. The U.S. House of Representatives approved the legislation, which also includes legislation to fund the Veterans Administration, Military Construction projects and the Legislative branch, by a vote count of 377-20. H.R. 5895 provides funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and had the lead role negotiating funding decisions for Department of Energy, Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, and other agencies. The three-bill package is the first time in more than a decade that more than one Appropriations bill reached the President’s desk before the end of the fiscal year. “I am proud of the fiscal year 2019 Energy and Water bill and the critical investments it makes at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “This bill reaffirms INL’s leadership in nuclear energy research, and also expands capabilities at the lab to bolster national security. Passing this legislation today enhances INL’s work in advanced reactor and fuel development, battery and bioenergy programs, and world-renowned efforts to protect the electric grid and other critical infrastructure from cyber-attacks.” The FY 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets record funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.326 billion. The bill directs funding to the following INL priorities: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $318 million – a $24 million increase over last year. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $146 million – an increase of $13 million over fiscal year 2018. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $47 million, the same as last year. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $324 million – an increase of $87 million above last year. Within the overall level for this account, $100 million is for Advanced Small Modular Reactor Research and Development, $65 million is to design a new “fast” test reactor at INL, $34 million is allocated to fuel qualification for an advanced gas reactor, and $20 million is provided for new program to develop very small “micro reactors” for deployment at remote locations and Department of Defense facilities. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $125 million with $20 million directed toward development of new high assay low enriched fuel for advanced reactors. The bill directs $63.9 million for Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development. Other vital priorities funded within the Energy and Water division include: Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $85.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $25 million is included for energy efficient mobility systems, $7 million is for advanced battery analytics at the Lab, $30 million is for the Lab’s bioenergy program, and $11 million is for the integrated energy systems. Provides significant investment in cyber security grid protection work that the Idaho National Laboratory leads. A provision to allow recharge of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer during flood releases and high flow events at the Palisades Reservoir. A provision to extend the authority for the Bureau of Reclamation to conduct feasibility studies on projects that address water shortages within the Snake, Boise, and Payette River systems. The bill also provides $420 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $5 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel and $10 million to decommission and disposition INL facilities and infrastructure. The bill also provides $397 million for the Waste Isolation Pilot Project that continues to receive record shipments of transuranic waste from INL, including $85 million for necessary safety-related infrastructure upgrades. Simpson also praised the inclusion of the crucial Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies (MilCon-VA) Appropriations bill in the package. “The MilCon-VA title provides a much-needed $5.4 billion increase for Veterans and military construction programs,” said Simpson. “I am pleased to support this title which addresses the most critical issues facing our Veterans, including funds for increased mental health services and addressing the claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs.” The MilCon-VA title, which includes the highest dollar level ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs, also includes increases for military base housing and facilities and upgrades to infrastructure for deterrence operations. By supporting H.R. 5895, the House voted to provide: $8.6 billion for mental health care services, $206 million for suicide prevention outreach, $270 million for rural Veterans health initiatives, Rigorous reporting requirements on the status of VA claims processing, and Full funding for on-base housing for service-members and their families. “Beyond the important funding for Idaho, the three-bill package marks an important return to regular order. I have long pressed for Congress to fulfill its responsibility and provide budget certainty by passing appropriations bills on time. I am pleased my Energy and Water legislation fulfills that responsibility and I look forward to passing more appropriations bills by the end of fiscal year 2018.” The Senate passed H.R. 5895 on Wednesday and the President is expected to sign the bill into law. ###
09.13.2018	Washington, D.C. – The House Committee on Natural Resources passed H.R. 6510, the Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act and H.R. 502 today, which permanently reauthorizes the Land and Water Conservation Fund (LWCF). Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has been a leader on both issues having introduced legislation to reauthorize LWCF and address deferred maintenance on our public lands. “I am encouraged to see movement on both these important public lands issues,” said Simpson. “The positive momentum in the committee of jurisdiction demonstrate that both issues are priorities that need to be addressed by the end of this Congress. I look forward to working with Chairman Bishop and Ranking Member Grijalva to make these critical bills become law.” Congressman Simpson introduced, H.R. 5210, the National Park Restoration Act which would create a designated fund from energy revenues to address deferred maintenance in our National Parks. Congressman Simpson is also a lead cosponsor of H.R. 6510. In 2017, Congressman Simpson introduced H.R. 2863, the LAND Act, which would fund deferred maintenance projects in the National Park System, Bureau of Land Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and U.S. Forest Service. The bill also funds and reauthorizes LWCF. ###
09.11.2018	It’s hard to believe that it has been 17 years since our nation was attacked. The children in our schools will have no memory of that dreadful day, yet we remain committed to honoring the lives lost and celebrating the many heroes who arose that day. It is in times of affliction that the American Spirit prospers.
07.25.2018	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a bipartisan coalition of members of Congress to introduce the Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act. The bill would create a dedicated fund to address the $12 billion maintenance backlog in the National Parks (NPS) and multibillion-dollar backlog that exists at the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), and the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE). The proposal is consensus legislation that combines Congressman Simpson’s National Park Restoration Act and LAND ACT, and Congressman Will Hurd’s National Park Service Legacy Act. “This is an exciting day for public lands and national park advocates,” said Simpson. “Growing up in Yellowstone’s backyard, I was afforded the opportunity to enjoy our nation’s first national park. That is why I feel it is important to pay it forward to future visitors that deserve the same quality experience as past generations. I look forward to working with all the stakeholders to advance legislation that will help restore our parks and public lands.” Specifically, the Restore Our Parks and Public Lands Act would create a dedicated fund of money to fix the backlog maintenance at the NPS, USFWS, BLM, and BIE. The money would come from onshore and offshore energy revenues that are currently not obligated to other purposes. The bill is estimated to raise roughly $6.5 billion over the course of five years. The legislation was introduced with over 50 bipartisan cosponsors and has bicameral support with a Senate version that was introduced in June. The legislation also has the support of President Trump and Interior Secretary Zinke, the National Parks Conservation Association, the Pew Charitable Trusts’ restore America’s parks campaign, and the Outdoor Industry Association. ###
07.19.2018	Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2019 Interior and Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill by a vote of 217-199. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson authored several of the provisions in the bill that directly benefit Idaho. This legislation also continues many important provisions from the 2018 Omnibus, such as rolling back onerous rules and regulations, providing funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes Program (PILT), and fully funding wildfire suppression to ensure western states have the resources to battle catastrophic wildfires. “Land managers have a duty to be good neighbors to Idahoans,” said Simpson. “That is why Congress needs to adequately fund these agencies to ensure that they have the resources to carry out their missions. The legislation passed by the House does that by funding PILT, wildfire prevention and suppression programs, and providing a check on the executive branch from past rules and regulations that have been a burden to communities across Idaho.” The bill will now move to the Senate for further consideration. To read about more Idaho provisions in the bill visit: https://simpson.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=398651 ###
07.17.2018	Washington D.C.- I have always believed that America first does not mean America alone. We are at our strongest when we work together with our allies to counter international aggression inconsistent with our values. In response to Russian actions that run counter to our principles, Congress has spoken clearly by providing the Administration tools to hold the Kremlin accountable, tools that I hope will be utilized to their fullest extent.
07.09.2018	“I congratulate Judge Brett Kavanaugh on his nomination to the Supreme Court. Throughout his career, Judge Kavanaugh has demonstrated a stalwart commitment to the U.S. Constitution, and I am confident he will approach his work on the nation’s highest bench with the same vigor, bolstered by strong conservative ethics. I thank Justice Kennedy for his decades of distinguished service, and I commend President Trump for his excellent choice to replace him.”
06.29.2018	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson met with Congressional Art Contest Winner, Bailey Annis from Bonneville High School. Annis took first place in Idaho’s second congressional district’s art contest. “It was a pleasure to meet Bailey and her family and I’m proud that her art is now on display in the U.S. Capitol,” said Simpson. “She is a fantastic artist, a great student, and Idaho is lucky to have her represent our state.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 and more than 650,000 high school students have participated. Southwest Airline donated airline tickets for Bailey to attend the Congressional Art Reception in Washington D.C. that was held this week. “We were thrilled at this year’s participation,” said Simpson. “This is the largest participation we have seen in years. There were nine high schools represented in this year’s competition, spanning from Skyline to Timberline and North Fremont to Snake River.” The Art Museum of Eastern Idaho commissioned a panel to jury all submissions and then all entries were on exhibit in March, where over 1,200 people viewed the artwork from Idaho high school students. The winning piece from Bailey Annis is now on display with the winners of every other congressional district in the country for thousands to see in the U.S. Capitol.
06.27.2018	On Wednesday, the Department of the Interior announced fiscal year 2018 Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) payments, which compensate local governments for the inability to collect property taxes on federal land. Idaho is slated to receive $36.1 million in fiscal year 2018, along with the $26 million from Secure Rural Schools Payments (SRS) the Forest Service announced in May. PILT funding was made possible by the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018 which contained $530 million for the program. “In Idaho, PILT is perhaps the most critical source of funding for counties with high percentages of federal land,” said Simpson. “I am pleased the federal government is meeting its obligations to states and localities and I look forward to continuing to ensure full funding for fiscal year 2019. It is my hope that we can pass appropriations bills on time this year to give Idaho counties certainty with their PILT payments.” Congressman Simpson’s vote for the Omnibus also included reauthorization of SRS and many other important provisions that impact Idaho.
06.21.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act (the “Farm Bill”). The Farm Bill reauthorizes many important farm and nutrition programs for five years. H.R. 2 passed by a vote of 213-211. “We need to show rural America we have their back, and the Farm Bill is the perfect vehicle to demonstrate our support,” said Simpson. “In Idaho, this bill will provide certainty for our ranchers and farmers and signature commodities like potatoes, dairy, grain, and sugar beets. I am pleased we moved one step closer today towards providing stability to our nation’s farmers.” During the initial floor consideration of H.R. 2, Congressman Simpson fought for many important Idaho priorities such as the U.S. sugar program which operates at no cost to the taxpayer and is critical to Idaho sugar beet farmers. Other important programs include research for specialty crops such as potatoes, risk management tools for dairy and grain producers, and trade promotion programs for all agriculture. The legislation will now await a formal conference to work out differences with the Senate legislation which is expected to be considered next week.
06.15.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement after U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Department of the Army announced they will be sending a proposed ‘Step 2” rule that would define ‘waters of the United States (WOTUS) to the Office of Management and Budget for interagency review. “I applaud this Administration for permanently rescinding the hastily developed Obama Administration rule on ‘waters of the United States’,” said Simpson. “I look forward to working with the Administration on the new rule which will give certainty to Idaho’s farmers and ranchers, respect the jurisdiction of state waters, and ultimately achieve the intent of the law through supporting local communities to provide clean water.” ###
06.14.2018	The Truth about the Omnibus By Congressman Mike Simpson Washington, D.C. – “You may have seen an article authored by a DC lobbyist recently that criticized my vote on the FY18 Omnibus bill. I’d like to respond to Mr. Riggs’ claims. “First, the FY18 Omnibus bill was good for Idaho. It will directly benefit Idahoans through reauthorization of Secure Rural Schools, full funding for PILT, reining in the EPA, and funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II based at Gowen Field. It included my fix to fire funding, which will allow us to decrease the cost and severity of future wildfires. Strong support for the INL to sustain its world-class research and development, including their work on cybersecurity grid protection will help keep Americans safe. “Most critically, the omnibus starts rebuilding America’s Armed Forces by making the largest investment in our defense in 15 years. I was shocked to learn recently that we currently have the smallest Army since before World War II, the smallest Navy since before World War I, and the smallest and oldest Air Force that we have ever had. Our Army has only 5 of 58 Brigade Combat Teams that are “Ready to Fight Tonight.” Less than half of the Navy’s aircraft can fly due to maintenance and spare parts issues. Only 50% of the Air Force’s combat forces are sufficiently ready for a fight against a peer adversary. The FY18 Omnibus bill gives warfighters the resources they need to fight, win, and return home safety. I am proud of my vote for this legislation. “It’s ironic that Mr. Riggs lamented the lack of progress on mandatory entitlement reform, because on that point we completely agree. My constituents know well that I have advocated a “go big” approach to deficit reduction that would find at least $4 trillion in savings with a package of cuts to discretionary spending, tax reform, and most importantly, an overhaul of mandatory spending programs. “Mr. Riggs admitted that Congress successfully tackled reforming our tax code. On discretionary spending, he failed to acknowledge that Congress has cut more than a trillion dollars in the last several years, and that despite the increase to rebuild our military, discretionary spending in FY18 was LOWER than it was in FY10. Last week, the House voted to cut another $15 billion from discretionary funding that was expired or unnecessary. “The growth of mandatory programs is the main driver of our debt. It’s the final challenge that Congress will need to tackle to address our fiscal health. Cutting discretionary spending only has a small impact on the growth of government, since mandatory programs make up 2/3 of the federal budget. In FY16, mandatory spending was 69% of our total budget while all other spending that Congress controls (the Departments of Defense, Agriculture, Justice, Energy, Interior, Transportation, State, and others) totaled 31%. Left unchecked, by 2040, those numbers will grow to 81% mandatory and 19% discretionary. In 1965, those numbers were 34% mandatory and 66% discretionary. “Americans have spent their working lifetimes paying into these programs, and this growth is unsustainable. The fundamentals are simply not working anymore, as only 2.9 workers pay into Social Security for every one beneficiary (versus 159 workers per beneficiary in 1940), meaning the trust fund will be insolvent by 2034. Every proposal that I have ever supported to reform these programs would preserve benefits for current beneficiaries and save it for future generations. “Mr. Riggs’ column highlights a fundamental issue with our country. If we engage in thoughtful conversation, we usually find there is a lot more we agree on than not. Let’s develop and pursue actual solutions to the most serious challenge our nation faces. Americans deserve it.” ###
06.08.2018	Simpson’s Energy and Water Legislation Passes the House House approves legislation including Energy and Water, Military Construction-Veterans Affairs, and Legislative Branch Appropriations bill Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage of H.R. 5895, which included the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. The U.S. House of Representatives approved the legislation with a final vote count of 235-179. H.R. 5895 provides funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The FY19 Energy and Water bill recognizes the leading national role that the Idaho National Laboratory plays in enhancing our national security and increasing American competitiveness,” said Chairman Simpson. “I’m proud to support their groundbreaking research in advanced reactor and fuel development, battery and bioenergy programs, and protecting the electric grid from cyber-attacks, and I am pleased this bill fulfills their needs to continue this critical work.” The FY 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.2 billion. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $1.2 billion allocation include: · The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $322 million – a $28 million increase over last year. · INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $146 million – an increase of $13 million over fiscal year 2018. · The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $164.3 million – an increase of $5.3 million above fiscal year 2018. · The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $50 million, the same as last year. · The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $370 million – an increase of $133 million above last year. Within the overall level for this account, $34 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, and $100 million is for Advanced Small Modular Reactor Research and Development to support technical, first-of-its-kind engineering and design and regulatory development of next generation light water and non-light water reactor technologies. · Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $128.5 million; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $62.5 million. Other vital priorities funded within the Energy and Water division include: · Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $85.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. · Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $25 million is included for energy efficient mobility systems and over $27 million for the Lab’s bioenergy program, and $9 million for the integrated energy systems. · Provides significant investment in cyber security grid protection work that the Idaho National Laboratory leads. · A provision to allow recharge of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer during flood releases and high flow events at the Palisades Reservoir. The bill also provides $420 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $5 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. The bill also contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $44.7 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “This is a well-balanced bill that places emphasis where it is needed most: meeting critical national security needs and investing in our nation's infrastructure," Chairman Simpson said. "It prioritizes the maintenance and security of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also supporting infrastructure projects and strategic research and development that will increase U.S. economic growth and competitiveness.” Simpson also praised the passage of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Bill for Fiscal Year 2019, which was included in H.R. 5895. “This FY19 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill is landmark legislation- besides rebuilding our military infrastructure, the bill provides the largest dollar increase in history for the Department of Veterans Affairs. The bill funds healthcare for our veterans, modernizes the VA records system, continues to rebuild military infrastructure, and addresses the veterans compensation claims backlog. I am extremely proud to support this legislation which upholds our responsibility to veterans and military families.” The FY19 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Bill also includes: · $8.6 billion for mental health care services · $7.4 billion for homeless veterans services · $270 million for rural veterans’ health initiatives · $1.6 billion for housing for military families H.R. 5895 will now be conferenced with the Senate version of these pieces of legislation. ###
06.06.2018	Simpson Includes Important Idaho Provisions in Committee Passed Bill Watch the Congressman discuss Sage Grouse and Science Transparency at the EPA during the House Interior Appropriations Markup Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Appropriations Committee passed the fiscal year 2019 Interior and Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations bill by a vote of 25-20. Included in the bill are critical provisions for Idaho that provide relief from burdensome regulations, funding to prevent and suppress wildfires, and payments that help counties with large percentages of federal lands. This legislation continues many important provisions from the 2018 Omnibus and expands many of these efforts which are critical to Idaho’s rural economy. “The House Appropriations Committee has once again put together a bill that reflects the priorities of Idaho and other western members,” said Simpson. “PILT, wildfire funding, and further relief from the last Administration’s regulations are a major focus of this bill and I look forward to seeing these provisions signed into law later this year.” The Interior bill includes a number of priorities championed by Simpson that benefit Idaho, including: Full funding for Payments in Lieu of Taxes, which is $500 million for FY19 and $35 million above the President’s request; Full funding for wildfire suppression at the ten-year average of $3.9 billion for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service. Starting in FY20, the Forest Service will be able to treat wildfires like other natural disasters thanks to Congressman Simpson’s legislation included in the FY2018 Omnibus; $655 million for hazardous fuels management, a $30 million increase from FY18, which is vital to preventing catastrophic wildfires; Language that authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule; Language that directs EPA, USDA, and DOE to establish clear policies that reflect the carbon neutrality of biomass; A decrease in EPA funding by $100 million and it specifically reduces the regulatory programs by $228 million and prioritizes funding for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan fund, which states and local governments use for water infrastructure projects; · Language which prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species; Watch Simpson discuss sage grouse issues in Idaho during the markup: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRvKiTMkJmA Language that directs the Fish and Wildlife Service to issue a rule removing recovered wolves in in the contiguous United States from the endangered species list; Funding increase for Recovery Challenge matching grants to share the costs of recovery with corporate and other non-governmental partners such as the Peregrine Fund in Boise; Language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court; Funding for the Rural Water Technical Assistance program to help small communities provide safe and affordable drinking water; A $175 million increase for the National Park Service to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog in the Park system. This is one of the largest increases NPS has received to address the $11.6 billion maintenance backlog. Congressman Simpson also introduced standalone legislation to address this issue; Language that prohibits a ban on issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety; Funding for Native American communities to help improve infrastructure and health care needs. Language that directs the Bureau of Land Management to work with the State of Idaho regarding aquifer recharge; Language that directs the BLM to work with local stakeholders to address sediment buildup caused by recent years flooding. Congressman Simpson also spoke against an amendment that would have eliminated the EPA’s ability to make the science used during the rulemaking process publicly available. “The basis of science is that if you come to a conclusion, you should be able to verify the results,” said Simpson. “Without transparency on the science EPA is using to create some of these rules, we don’t know if they are justifiable in many cases. That is why I appreciate what the Administrator is trying to do by make science publicly available and also providing safeguards for confidential information such as medical records.” Watch Simpson discuss science transparency at the EPA during the markup: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Px2215PKiI The bill will now head to the floor of the House of Representatives for further consideration. ###
05.24.2018	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Simpson today applauded the passage of H.R. 5515, the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. Simpson supported the legislation which fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense by funding the Department of Defense. “The annual NDAA bill is one of the most important votes I take each year, and FY 2019 is no different,” said Simpson. “The United States continues to face evolving threats, and H.R. 5515 demonstrates Congress’ commitment to improve readiness and rebuild the military by increasing topline funding to support our troops. I am especially pleased that the bill recognizes the continued importance of the A-10 fleet.” The FY2019 NDAA includes $163.7 million in the base budget for A-10 modifications, an increase of $65 million for the A-10 wing replacement program, and contains language preventing the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II, which currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise. Additionally, it prohibits the Secretary of the Air Force from reducing A-10 squadrons until results from comparative testing and evaluation between the capabilities of the F-35 and A-10 are submitted to Congress. The bill also provides for a pay raise of 2.6% for our service members, the largest in nine years. H.R. 5515 passed in the House with a bipartisan vote of 351-66.
05.18.2018	"The certainty a farm bill provides to Idaho's farmers and rural communities is critical," said Simpson. "I am disappointed by today's developments and hope that Congress can take steps toward passing a farm bill sooner rather than later. I am pleased H.R. 2 protected the no cost sugar program, which is vital for sugar beet growers in Idaho. I stand ready to work with my colleagues to find a path forward to assembling a final Farm Bill that works for rural America.”
05.17.2018	Washington, DC – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced that the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill protects funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which passed the bill through the full House Appropriations Committee this week, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The FY19 Energy and Water bill recognizes the leading national role that the Idaho National Laboratory plays in enhancing our national security and increasing American competitiveness,” said Chairman Simpson. “I’m proud to support their groundbreaking research in advanced reactor and fuel development, battery and bioenergy programs, and protecting the electric grid from cyber-attacks, and I am pleased this bill fulfills their needs to continue this critical work.” The FY 2019 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.2 billion. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $1.2 billion allocation include: · The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $322 million – a $28 million increase over last year. · INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $146 million – an increase of $13 million over fiscal year 2018. · The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $164.3 million – an increase of $5.3 million above fiscal year 2018. · The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $50 million, the same as last year. · The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $370 million – an increase of $133 million above last year. Within the overall level for this account, $34 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, and $100 million is for Advanced Small Modular Reactor Research and Development to support technical, first-of-its-kind engineering and design and regulatory development of next generation light water and non-light water reactor technologies. · Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $128.5 million; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $62.5 million. Other vital priorities funded within the Energy and Water division include: · Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $85.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. · Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $25 million is included for energy efficient mobility systems and over $27 million for the Lab’s bioenergy program, and $9 million for the integrated energy systems. · Provides significant investment in cyber security grid protection work that the Idaho National Laboratory leads. · A provision to allow recharge of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer during flood releases and high flow events at the Palisades Reservoir. The bill also provides $420 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $5 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. The bill also contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $44.7 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “This is a well-balanced bill that places emphasis where it is needed most: meeting critical national security needs and investing in our nation's infrastructure,” Chairman Simpson said. “It prioritizes the maintenance and security of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also supporting infrastructure projects and strategic research and development that will increase U.S. economic growth and competitiveness.” The House Appropriations Committee also passed the fiscal year 2019 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The legislation includes important priorities to Idaho such as vital research and support for farmers and ranchers. Similar to previous years, Congressman Simpson authored language in the Agriculture Appropriations bill that blocks the proposed closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. Also included in the Agriculture Appropriations bill are other important Idaho priorities such as potato and wheat research funding, support for pest eradication programs, and language directing the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based on existing standards, which is similar to Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan DAIRY Pride Act. The Committee also unanimously adopted a bipartisan amendment from Congressman Simpson that would roll back a rule from the Obama Administration which created a barrier for potatoes to be served in the school breakfast program. “Potatoes are in important source of potassium and fiber, which are two nutrients identified as deficient in all U.S. populations by both the 2015 Dietary Guidelines and USDA,” said Simpson. “I’m pleased the Committee adopted my bipartisan amendment to treat potatoes like other vegetables of need in the school breakfast program. This is important to Idaho and students who need healthy options. The House Appropriations Committee has sent a strong message that rural America matters and this bill delivers for farmers and ranchers.” The two bills are expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. ###
05.08.2018	“I’ve always been opposed to the Iran deal that the Obama Administration put forward,” said Congressman Simpson. “I voted against it when it came before the House because of its deficiencies, and Iran’s behavior since the deal’s signing in 2013 has continued to cause great concern. Now that President Trump has announced the United States’ withdrawal from the deal, I believe we need to work hand in hand with our allies to develop a more effective and comprehensive response to the threat of a nuclear Iran.” ###
05.08.2018	On Monday, the U.S. Forest Service announced Secure Rural Schools (SRS) payment distributions, which is critically important for Idaho’s rural counties. SRS funding fulfills the federal government’s responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal lands, specifically counties with high percentages of national forests. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, which passed in March and was signed into law by President Trump, included two years of funding for SRS. Idaho received approximately $26,000,000 in SRS payments. Congressman Simpson supported this legislation to ensure Idaho counties receive both SRS and Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) funding. “SRS payments are vital sources of funding for Idaho counties,” said Simpson. “I am pleased that the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bill honors the government’s responsibility to Idaho. These funds go to counties’ most critical services such as transportation infrastructure and education. I am also pleased my vote on this bill ensures full funding for PILT, another important funding stream for Idaho.” Congressman Simpson was a cosponsor of H.R. 2340, a bill to reauthorize SRS. Also included in the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bill is full funding for PILT. Idaho received more than $30 million in PILT funding last year. To see more details on SRS visit the following link: https://www.fs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/fseprd579319.pdf For more details on Idaho wins in the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bill visit: https://simpson.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=398641 ###
04.17.2018	Statement on the Passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement: “Kathy and I send our love and prayers to the Bush family. Barbara Bush was a leader, a grandmother, a mother, a wife, and one of the most important figures in modern American history. Her strong presence inspired a family of public servants, and her own service to this country will live on through her legacy of advancing family literacy. She was a role model for all Americans and will be greatly missed.”
04.13.2018	Federal Legislation Delivers Big Wins for Idaho Agriculture By Congressman Mike Simpson Washington, D.C. – “Idaho’s history of agriculture excellence is critical to our economy, accounting for 20% the state’s gross state product. With over 25,000 farms and ranches and 185 different commodities, it isn’t just Idaho that we are feeding – it is the world. “No doubt that ideal climate conditions, irrigation systems, and generations of family farmers are responsible for this agriculture dominance. However, the state also needs cutting edge research and fair cooperation on reasonable rules and regulations for farmers and ranchers to succeed. The recently passed appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018 included big wins for Idaho agriculture. I was proud to champion many of these efforts so Idaho can continue to lead in agriculture production. “We don’t have to look any farther than our license plates to know the potatoes are world famous. The key to continuing this tradition is ensuring adequate funding for research that protects Idaho crops from disease. Included in the agriculture section of the appropriations bill is targeted funding to accomplish just that. Specifically there is increased funding for potato breeding research, plus additional money for a geneticist that accelerates the process for finding resistant potato varieties to combat some of the worst diseases that threaten not only annual harvests, but trade access with global partners. “The bill also contains money for advancing wheat research that will assist farmers in updating the falling numbers test that has cost growers millions of dollars in discounts. The research will help us better understand the various causes of low falling numbers and how it impacts end-use products that almost every Idaho consumer buys at the grocery store. “The livestock industry is also well represented through a vitally important bipartisan provision that exempts ranchers and dairy farmers from EPA reporting requirements. The provision clarifies that Congress did not intend for a law aimed at regulating toxic waste and superfund sites, to apply to agriculture operations. The bill also recognizes challenges livestock farmers and ranchers face through money to compensate losses due to livestock killed by wolves. “Idaho’s dairy farmers also benefit from this bill through language that directs the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based products. The language is a good first step to solving the recent surge in mislabeled imitation products and compliments legislation I support known as the DAIRY Pride Act, which also has the backing of Idaho Senators Risch and Crapo. “This is just a snapshot of the benefits to Idaho, but these provisions are important and helpful to Idaho’s agriculture future.” ###
03.22.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the House passage of H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, which included monumental benefits for Idaho and Western States. “This is a comprehensive and responsible package that contains so many important provisions for Idaho and Western States,” said Simpson. “It is the product of this past year’s worth of thoughtful deliberation and line-by-line analysis of every program in the federal budget. Funding our government through short term Continuing Resolutions is unsustainable, inefficient, and an irresponsible way to govern. Through this agreement, Congress has fulfilled its duty of keeping our government open, and while no one got everything they wanted in the final package, we have paved the way back to regular order in the weeks and months to come.”As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and a senior member and former Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment, Simpson had a key role in deciding funding levels for Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs, including the following highlights: Energy and Water Development “The Energy and Water section of this bill reaffirms our nation’s commitment to nuclear energy and the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “It makes critical investments in advanced reactor and nuclear fuel R&D programs at the nation’s lead nuclear lab and funds much needed infrastructure improvements that will allow the world class researchers at the lab to continue their ground breaking work. This bill also makes significant investments in nonproliferation and grid security programs, where INL plays a leading role keeping our nation safe.” The fiscal year (FY) 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.2 billion, an increase of $188 million above fiscal year 2017. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $1.2 billion allocation include: · The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $294 million – an increase of $56.3 million above fiscal year 2017 and $90 million above the budget request. · INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $133 million – an increase of $3.7 million over fiscal year 2017. · The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $159 million – an increase of $44 million above fiscal year 2017. · The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $237 million – an increase of $105 million above last year. Within the overall $237 million level for this account, $30 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, and $60 million is for a solicitation to support technical, first-of-its-kind engineering and design and regulatory development of next generation light water and non-light water reactor technologies, including small modular reactors. · The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $47 million – an increase of $7 million over last year. · Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $125 million—a $57 million increase from fiscal year 2017; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $86.4 million. Other vital priorities funded within the Energy and Water division include: · Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $85.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor to accelerate planned reliability-related infrastructure upgrades, and $198 million is included for the Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization Project.· Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $10 million to complete the development of an industry-scale Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. · Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $25 million is included for energy efficient mobility systems and over $15 million for the Lab’s bioenergy program, and $9 million for the integrated energy systems. · Provides significant investment in cyber security grid protection work that the Idaho National Laboratory leads. · A provision to allow recharge of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer during flood releases and high flow events at the Palisades Reservoir. The bill also provides $434 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL, an increase of $52 million over fiscal year 2017. The funding level of $434 million will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue and includes $10 million to demolish excess facilities and infrastructure in order to reduce overall maintenance costs. In addition, the bill includes language in the House mark directing the Department to fully investigate alternatives for new missions at the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project. Finally, the bill includes an additional $5 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Interior and Environment “The Interior portion of the Omnibus contains provisions that are critical to Idaho,” said Simpson. “I am thrilled to see a fix to fire borrowing included. I have been working on this issue since 2013 and it is long past due that fires are treated like other natural disasters. I am also pleased to see vital funding for PILT and SRS which our rural counties need. Notably, this bill recognizes the late Governor Andrus by naming the White Clouds Wilderness after him. A well-deserved honor for a man who dedicate his life to public service.” · Includes a fix to fire borrowing which Congressman Simpson has championed since 2013. It also includes forest management reforms that are also critical to preventing catastrophic wildfires. · Includes Congressman Simpson’s bill to rename the White Clouds Wilderness after former Idaho Governor Cecil D. Andrus. · Provides $3.8 billion in wildfire fighting and prevention programs which fully funds the 10 year average for wildfire suppression costs at the Forest Service and Department of the Interior. There is also an additional $500 million for the Forest Service suppression operations. · Includes full funding of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $30,054,704 in PILT funding for FY17. · Reauthorizes Secure Rural Schools (SRS) which, similar to PILT, provides an alternative source of education funding for counties with a high percentage of national forests. This program also fulfills the federal government’s responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal lands. · Provides $614 million for hazardous fuels reduction activities—a $50 million increase over FY17. · Retains cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and specifically reduces the regulatory programs by over $20 million and prioritizes funding for the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Loan fund, which states and local governments use for water infrastructure projects. · Relieves livestock operations of EPA permitting requirements similar to bipartisan legislation Congressman Simpson cosponsored. · Prohibits the EPA from making changes to certain agricultural exemptions under the Clean Water Act. · Provides $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves. · Language which prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species and adequate funding for sage grouse conservation. · Directs EPA, U.S Department of Agriculture (USDA), and DOE to establish clear policies regarding the carbon neutrality of biomass which is an important energy source and part of an all of the above energy strategy. · Continues language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court. · Provides a $185 million increase for the National Park Service to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog. This is one of the largest increases NPS has received to address the $11.6 billion maintenance backlog. Congressman Simpson also introduced standalone legislation to address this issue. · Includes funding for Native American communities to help improve infrastructure and health care needs. · Language that directs the Bureau of Land Management to work with the State of Idaho regarding aquifer recharge. Agriculture “Whether it is resources for our farmers and ranchers or research that guarantees a safe and efficient food supply, USDA plays a vital role in Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “The bill also includes language that allows for the Dubois Sheep Station to remain open and work in a collaborative manner on a long term plan for future research.” · Provides funding for the USDA Rural Utilities Service Circuit Rider program which helps fund rural communities to provide safe and affordable drinking water. · Provides funding for National Institutes of Food and Agriculture potato and wheat research. · Continues previous years’ language authored by Congressman Simpson that blocks the President’s proposed closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. · Language directing the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based on existing standards which is similar to Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan DAIRY Pride Act. Defense “For years we have heard from our military leaders that defense spending is not keeping pace with increased demands on our military,” said Simpson. “As lawmakers, it is our responsibility to ensure that our troops have the resources they need to complete every mission and anticipate new threats. At $654.6 billion for defense spending, this bill does the work towards making critical investments in our nation’s military and safeguarding our American way of life.” This is the biggest year-to-year increase in defense funding in 15 years. · Fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for our troops. · Includes an additional $221.7M above the request for additional end strength. · Directs $103M for A-10 wing replacements. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education “Impact Aid is vitally important across the state of Idaho, providing support for schools and tax relief for local communities. I am pleased that this bill honors our commitment to federally-impacted schools by increasing funds for Impact Aid programs,” said Congressman Simpson. “The Labor H bill contains life-saving research funding by substantially increasing NIH to continue their important initiatives. Most of this money flows out to universities like Boise State, Idaho State, and University of Idaho, who conducts the biomedical research that ultimately saves lives.” · Includes $1.41 billion for Impact Aid, an $85 million increase for education programs that benefit Idaho schools and counties. · Provides for a $3 billion increase to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to continue lifesaving research initiatives · Provides funding to address the nation’s opioid addiction crisis through prevention and treatment initiatives. The House passed H.R. 1625 by a vote of 256-167, and it will be considered by the U.S. Senate tomorrow. Links to the full bill text and reports can be found here. For bill-by-bill summaries, please visit: Agriculture Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_agriculture_-_summary.pdf Commerce/Justice/Science Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_commerce_justice_science_-_summary.pdf Department of Defense Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_defense_-_summary.pdf Energy and Water Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_energy_and_water_-_summary.pdf Financial Services Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_financial_services_-_summary.pdf Homeland Security Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_homeland_security_-_summary.pdf Interior/Environment Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_interior_-_summary.pdf Labor/Health and Human Services/Education Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_labor_health_and_human_services_-_summary.pdf Legislative Branch Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_legislative_branch_-_summary.pdf Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill- https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_milcon_va_-_summary.pdf State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_state_foreign_operations_-_summary.pdf Transportation/Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill – https://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/03.21.18_fy18_omnibus_-_THUD_-_summary.pdf ###
03.21.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded inclusion of a fire borrowing fix and forestry reforms in the Omnibus Appropriations bill. Simpson has long championed a fix to fire borrowing having authored the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act which would treat wildfires like other natural disasters. The Omnibus includes the core principles of this bill by addressing the rising cost of fire suppression and a budget mechanism to provide parity with other natural disasters like hurricanes, floods, and tornadoes. “The FY18 Omnibus spending bill might be one of the most critical pieces of legislation for western members I have seen since coming to Congress,” said Congressman Simpson. “I am thrilled this Omnibus provides a solution to fire borrowing. It has been my top legislative priority for years and by including this in the Omnibus, the Forest Service will be able to complete their maintenance and prevention work without fear of losing those dollars to suppression. It is long past due that wildfires in the west receive equal treatment with other natural disasters and this bill delivers the necessary budget changes to stop the dangerous practice of fire borrowing that has led to catastrophic wildfires in Idaho and throughout the west. I would like to thank Chairman Calvert and his counterparts on Interior Appropriations for prioritizing these important provisions. I would also like to thank Congressman Schrader and Senators Crapo and Wyden who have been champions of the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act since I began this effort in 2013.” The legislation also includes several important forest management reforms that will allow the Forest Service and Department of the Interior to accomplish more prevention and management, which also helps reduce wildfires. Specifically, the Omnibus includes a fix to the disastrous court ruling known as the Cottonwood decision that has resulted in vegetative management projects and millions of board feet being put on hold. Congressman Simpson introduced the Litigation Relief for Forest Management Act last year, which is bipartisan legislation that would resolve the Cottonwood case. Similar language was included in the Omnibus spending bill. “The forest management reforms in this bill will give land managers the tools they need to get the job done,” added Simpson. “The Cottonwood decision is a concern I heard from the local Forest Service on the ground, all the way up the Secretary of Agriculture as a barrier that stands in the way of improving the health of our federal forests. This is a serious problem that needed to be addressed, and this bill solves that issue as well.” The Omnibus also addresses support for rural counties by fully funding Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and reauthorizing Secure Rural Schools (SRS). This vital funding supports county budgets for the most critical of needs such as roads and schools.
03.08.2018	A group of eight senators and two representatives introduced a bipartisan, bicameral bill that will use revenues from energy production on federal lands to help pay for the over $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks. The senators – U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Angus King (I-Maine), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.) Joe Manchin (D- W.Va.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.) and Representatives Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) and Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.) have been working with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on the National Park Restoration Act, which will help restore and rebuild roads, buildings, campgrounds, trails and water systems in the country’s national parks for the next generation of visitors. “As someone who loves public lands and our National Parks, I am thrilled to be joining Senator Alexander, Senator King, Congressman Schrader, and Secretary Zinke to propose a solution to fixing the backlog maintenance,” said Representative Simpson. “Growing up in Yellowstone’s backyard, it is important that we pay it forward to future visitors that deserve the same quality experience as past generations. There are many people who deserve credit for bringing this issue to the forefront and I look forward to working with them to advance legislation that fixes our Parks.” “This legislation will help address the over $11 billion maintenance backlog at our national parks, including the $215 million backlog of projects in the Great Smoky Mountains National Park,” Senator Alexander said. “The Great Smoky Mountains National Park is one of America’s greatest treasures – and it has a tremendous economic impact in East Tennessee, attracting nearly twice the visitors of any other national park. Addressing the maintenance backlog will help attract even more visitors and create more jobs for Tennesseans. We must continue to work together to find solutions to the many challenges facing our public lands, and this legislation takes an important step toward doing that.” National Parks and recreation areas,” said Representative Kurt Schrader. “Our ability to enjoy and appreciate that natural beauty is limited when upkeep on our federal lands isn’t sufficiently funded allowing critical maintenance to fall by the wayside. Not only does that impact our enjoyment of the land, but it poses serious risks to the protection of these areas and hurts our communities that rely on the economic benefit from visitors. Currently, our national parks are in dire need of maintenance with a more than ten billion dollar backlog. Our bill provides an innovative solution by creating the National Park Restoration Fund which will provide mandatory funding from unutilized resources already available to us, to bring that backlog down and ensure our National Park System is well and safely kept for generations to come.” “For more than a century, our national parks have inspired and amazed countless visitors,” said Senator King. “Unfortunately, these parks don’t take care of themselves – they need maintenance to ensure that future generations can experience the same wonder that so many Americans already have. This bill is a practical step to help clear the existing maintenance backlog, and protect these treasured lands for years to come.” The National Park Restoration Act: · Creates the National Park Restoration Fund to provide mandatory funding for the high-priority deferred maintenance needs that support critical infrastructure and visitor services at our national parks. · Provides mandatory funding for the maintenance backlog on top of annual appropriations for operations and construction at the National Park Service. · The fund receives 50 percent of onshore and offshore revenues from energy production on federal lands over expected amounts that are not already allocated to other purposes. · Protects payments to states, the Land and Water Conservation Fund, the Reclamation Fund, and all other existing uses of onshore and offshore revenues. These existing uses will receive all of their funding before the National Park Restoration Fund receives any funding. The backlog of infrastructure projects at our national parks can limit access and impair visitor experiences and recreation opportunities, and without additional funding, the backlog could continue to grow. The National Park Service (NPS) maintenance backlog is nearly four times what NPS receives in annual appropriations. In Fiscal Year 2017 the NPS’ deferred maintenance needs were $11.6 billion – that same fiscal year, NPS received $2.9 million in annual appropriations. President Trump and Secretary Zinke have made addressing the growing maintenance backlog a top priority.
02.27.2018	Last night, the House overwhelmingly passed the bipartisan Action for Dental Health Act (H.R. 2422), co-authored by Congressional Black Caucus Health Braintrust Chair, Congresswoman Robin Kelly (D-IL), and Congressman and dentist Mike Simpson (R-ID). It received 387 yes votes. This legislation targets crucial federal dollars to organizations that provide oral health care to underserved populations, especially seniors, children and those living in rural and urban communities. Without spending additional dollars, the bill increases oral health care access by strengthening the impact of existing resources. “Unfortunately, too many Americans lack access to oral health care because of cost or a lack of dentists in their area. This bill starts to change that by making oral health care more accessible,” Congresswoman Kelly said. “In a time of a deeply divided Congress, I’m glad that Congressman Simpson and I could put forward a bipartisan bill that would win the support of hundreds of our colleagues.” “I am thrilled with the overwhelming bipartisan support for the Action for Dental Health Act,” Rep. Simpson said. “With House passage today, we are advancing a solution to better utilize resources to improve early diagnosis, intervention and preventive treatments which can stop the progress of oral diseases. I would like to thank Congresswoman Kelly for her work on this legislation and I look forward to seeing this advance in the Senate.” In practice, the legislation will reduce the number of oral health emergency room visits, which are often expensive, not comprehensive and only address dental conditions in late stages. By increasing access to care, issues can be addressed more efficiently and before extensive damage to overall health. The Action for Dental Health Act has received the endorsement of the American Dental Association, the National Dental Association, the American Dental Education Association and many other organizations. The legislation now advanced to the Senate.
02.26.2018	The Idaho Congressional Delegation today announced its 2018 Service Academy Days across Idaho. Each Service Academy Day session offers students, parents, and counselors the opportunity to meet with liaisons, cadets, and midshipmen from each of the nation’s respective service academies and provides an opportunity for questions. Staff from Idaho’s four Congressional delegation offices will be on hand to answer questions about the application process for students who are seeking a nomination to our service academies. This year, the United States Military Academy at West Point; the U.S. Naval Academy; the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will all be represented at each event. While a Congressional nomination is not needed to attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, representatives will also be in attendance. Following are the details of each the Service Academy Day: Thursday, March 01, 2018 Central Idaho 6:00pm-8:00pm Lewiston High School 1114 9th Avenue Lewiston Thursday, March 08, 2018 North Idaho 6:00pm-8:00pm North Idaho College Edminster Student Union Building 495 College Drive Coeur d’Alene Saturday, April 07, 2018 South Idaho 1:00pm-3:00pm Gowen Field Auditorium B440 Boise NOTE: Picture ID Is required for entrance to the base. Saturday, April 14, 2018 Pocatello 1:00pm-3:00pm Pocatello Armory 10714 Fairgrounds Road Pocatello Students who wish to learn more about applying for a military academy nomination but are unable to attend one of the Academy Day events are invited to contact any of the following Academy coordinators for information: Karen Roetter Sen. Mike Crapo’s Office Karen_Roetter@Crapo.senate.gov (208) 644-5490 Frances Hasenoehrl Sen. Jim Risch (208) 743-0792 Frances_Hasenoehrl@Risch.senate.gov Linda Culver Congressman Mike Simpson (208) 734-7219 Linda.Culver@mail.house.gov Judy Morbeck Congressman Raul Labrador (208) 667-0127 Judy.Morbeck@mail.house.gov
02.14.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement after the House Natural Resources Committee passed H.R. 4134 by unanimous consent. The bill would name the White Clouds Wilderness after former Idaho Governor and Secretary of the Interior, Cecil D. Andrus. “I am very grateful to Chairman Bishop and the Committee for passing legislation to honor the late Governor Andrus,” said Simpson. “Governor Andrus meant so much, to so many in Idaho. So do the White Clouds. It is only fitting that this iconic land in Idaho is forever tied to the man who dedicated his public service to protecting it. Today is an important first step in renaming the White Clouds after Governor Andrus.” Congressman Simpson introduced H.R. 4134 following the passing of Governor Andrus in August, roughly two years after Simpson’s Boulder White Clouds bill was signed into law.
01.30.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after President Trump’s State of the Union. “In today’s divided political climate it may seem difficult to find consensus. However, it is undisputable that the American economy is strong and on the rise. President Trump signed into law the largest tax reform policy in more than three decades and the results have been overwhelming. Businesses all over the world are investing and reinvesting in America, and families are keeping more of their hard-earned money in their pockets through bonuses, increased wages, added benefits, stock options, and lower utility bills. “I was very glad to hear the President’s emphasis on addressing our massive infrastructure needs. Whether it be our water and sewer systems, our roads and bridges, public lands, or our national grid, we have long been the beneficiaries of investments that our forefathers made. It is our job to maintain this backbone of our economy for future generations. “In the past year, the President and Congress have rolled back thousands of pages of burdensome regulations that have stifled American innovation and job creation. This is a key part of our economic success, and will also be crucial in ensuring infrastructure projects can be completed in an efficient and cost effective time frame. “There is still more work to be done on many issues, including immigration, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and the Administration to address the most pressing issues our nation faces.”
01.29.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman, issued the following statement addressing the recent announcement of House Appropriations Chairman Rodney Frelinghuysen’s retirement. “Rodney is an incredible legislator and a close friend who I will miss very much. It has been an honor to serve with him and as a member of his committees these many years. Under Chairman Frelinghuysen’s leadership and dedication, the House Appropriations Committee has completed our business by passing all of our FY 18 appropriations bills. He can get things done.” “I have been asked many times if I would be interested in a larger role on the committee someday. My response has always been and remains that it is something I will seriously consider. For now, we should be grateful for the years of service that Rodney and his family have given his district and our country. He will be missed very much.”
01.12.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson invites high school students across the second congressional district to enter the 2018 High School Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition encourages Idaho's aspiring student artists to showcase their talents to the public, while recognizing their achievements alongside hundreds of other students and members of Congress from across the country. School administrators and art instructors across the state received entry forms, and a list of rules and guidelines for the competition. Additional information can be found on Congressman Simpson’s website. The entry deadline for the competition is February 21, 2017. Artwork can be mailed or submitted at any of Congressman Simpson’s Idaho district offices in Boise, Twin Falls, or Idaho Falls. Students that enter the competition will have a chance to win a round trip flight to Washington, D.C., to attend a special reception, and see their artwork displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol Building. One grand-prize winner from Congressman Simpson’s district will be selected during a local reception in April, and will visit Washington D.C. in June. This year’s theme is titled, Hidden Gems of Our State, and encourages students to create a work of art expressing what they treasure in Idaho. Students should feel comfortable submitting work despite relevance to a theme. However the theme can ignite ideas and establish a foundation for many. Idaho is ‘The Gem State’, and while that references our abundance of natural resources, we now recognize that the gems of Idaho are not limited to precious stones. As one of our nation’s best kept secrets, students ought to consider what makes Idaho precious to them. All students that enter the competition will be invited to a local reception at the Art Museum of Eastern Idaho in Idaho Falls in March. All submitted artwork will be showcased from March 3rd through March 24th at the museum. Since the Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the competition.
01.11.2018	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women have been officially appointed to the United States service academies. Simpson nominated the students in December 2017 in order to be accepted to the Class of 2022. The Idaho Congressional Delegation will congratulate and meet the candidates at a reception to be held at Gowen Field on Wed., Feb. 21 at 4:00 p.m. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the service academies,” said Simpson. “Every year, I am impressed by the quality and character of these individuals. They are bright and articulate and I’m proud of these exceptional students who were selected to serve.” Nominations were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extracurricular activities. Students from Idaho were appointed to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.; U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y., or the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. Treasure Valley Area Students: Air Force Academy · Ty Miller – Boise · Jacob Pittman – Boise · Dylan Thompson – Boise Military Academy · Katelyn Murray – Boise · Noah Petty – Boise · Alya Thayer – Boise Naval Academy · Christopher Henderson – Boise · Benjamin Seabourn – Boise Merchant Marine Academy · Katelyn Catalano – Kuna · Andrew Maraska – Boise Magic Valley Area Students: Air Force Academy · Theron Christensen – Buhl · Victoria Sievers – Kimberly Military Academy · Theron Christensen – Buhl · Victoria Sievers – Kimberly Naval Academy · Hugh Sheldon – Buhl Merchant Marine Academy · Theron Christensen – Buhl Pocatello/Sterling Area Students: Air Force Academy · Daniel Barclay – Sterling · Jett Lopez – Pocatello · Tanner Stuart – Pocatello Idaho Falls/Rexburg/Driggs Area Students: Air Force Academy · Rydder Driggs - Ammon · Damien Stonhill – Ammon Military Academy · James Maguire – Rexburg · Damien Stonhill – Ammon Naval Academy · Nikko Gutierrez – Driggs · Christopher Salcido – Idaho Falls · Damien Stonhill – Ammon Congressman Simpson is currently accepting applications for students who seek nomination for the Class of 2023. Information about eligibility and answers to other common questions can be found under the student section on Simpson’s website: simpson.house.gov. The application is also online.
12.19.2017	Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage today of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the House of Representatives. H.R. 1 is the first comprehensive tax reform legislation to pass the House since 1986. “Since coming to Congress, I’ve talked to farmers, ranchers and businesses throughout Idaho and I consistently hear about the burden that our overly complex, outdated, and unfair tax code puts on families and small businesses,” said Simpson. “The bill that we voted on today has been years in the making, with the Better Way Blueprint’s release in June of 2016. Tax reform has been a key promise that Republicans made to our constituents when we gained control of the House, Senate, and White House, and I am proud to say that promise was fulfilled today.” H.R. 1 will lower tax rates on individuals and businesses of all sizes. It will nearly double the standard deduction, so the first $12,000 earned by an individual and $24,000 earned by a married couple is completely tax-free. Other important provisions in H.R. 1 include: • Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. The tax credit is fully refundable up to $1,400 and begins to phase-out for families making more than $400,000. • Improves savings vehicles for education by allowing families to use 529 accounts to save for elementary, secondary and higher education. • Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. • Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax – providing families with much-needed relief and flexibility to buy the health care that’s right for them, if they so choose. • Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Gives individuals and families the ability to deduct property taxes and income – or sales – taxes to best fit their unique circumstances. • Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit so parents can continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and homes to an adopted child. • Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. • Continues the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. • Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, and rising to 10 percent beginning in 2019. • Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption to reduce uncertainty and costs for many family-owned farms and businesses when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. “The United States has one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world, so taking that rate down to 21% is going to benefit our entire economy,” said Simpson. “We need to stop incentivizing companies from leaving America to go create jobs elsewhere. Not only will they stay and create more jobs, but the wages for American workers will be higher and our businesses will be more competitive on a global stage.” Some of the provisions that will benefit American Job creators include: • Delivers significant tax relief to Main Street job creators by offering a first-ever 20 percent tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs, and sole proprietorships. • Establishing strong safeguards so that wage income does not receive the lower marginal effective tax rates on business income – helping to ensure that Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. • Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. • Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. • Preserving the Research & Development Tax Credit that encourages our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. • Retaining the tax-preferred status of private-activity bonds that are used to finance valuable infrastructure projects. • Eliminates the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax, thereby lowering taxes and eliminating confusion and uncertainty so American job creators can focus on growing their business and hiring more workers, rather than on burdensome paperwork. For greater American energy security and economic growth, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: • Establishes an environmentally responsible oil and gas program in the non-wilderness 1002 Area of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). Congress specifically set aside the 1.57-million acre 1002 Area for potential future development. Two lease sales will be held over the next decade and surface development will be limited to 2,000 federal acres – just one ten-thousandth of all of ANWR. • Significantly boosts American energy production. Responsible development in the 1002 Area will raise tens of billions of dollars for deficit reduction in the decades to come, while creating thousands of new jobs, reducing our dependence on foreign oil, and helping to keep energy affordable for American families and businesses. • Provides a temporary increase in offshore revenue sharing for the Gulf Coast in 2020 and 2021, allowing those states to invest in priorities such as coastal restoration and hurricane protection. “The focus of this plan has always been to help middle class families by creating a simple and fairer tax system,” said Simpson. “While every family’s circumstance is unique, projections show that this plan would reduce the tax burden of a typical family of four earning $73,000 per year by more than $2,000. A single parent with one child earning $41,000 per year would see a tax cut of more than $1,300. And married small business owners with income of $100,000 per year would get a 24% reduction in their tax bill. I encourage people to see what this bill means to you, by using a simple tax calculator, available here or here. Simply put, this legislation will create economic growth in the United States by unleashing American small businesses and unburdening middle class families so they can make better financial decisions with their own money.” H.R. 1 passed by a vote of 227-203. The Senate will vote on the bill later today.
12.12.2017	Members of Idaho’s Congressional Delegation praise the announcement by the U.S. Department of Energy to extend the operations contract of the Battelle Energy Alliance (BEA) at the Idaho National Laboratory as well-deserved reflection of their outstanding work and contributions to U.S. energy security. “I appreciate the commitment shown by DOE in announcing the contract extension for management at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Idaho Senator Mike Crapo. “As the nation’s lead nuclear laboratory, the INL has produced cutting-edge energy and national security research and I look forward to continuing to work with Battelle Energy Alliance.” “I am pleased the Department of Energy is extending Battelle Energy Alliance’s contract to manage the Idaho National Laboratory, our nation’s nuclear energy research laboratory,” said Idaho Senator Jim Risch. “I look forward to continuing to work with BEA and the researchers at INL as the lab continues to be a world leader in nuclear energy, and grid and cybersecurity capabilities.” “I am very pleased that the Department of Energy has opted to extend Battelle Energy Alliance’s contract to manage Idaho National Laboratory,” said Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson. “This announcement is a recognition of the consistent and excellent performance by BEA and it will bring consistency and economic stability to our region. The world renowned researchers at the INL work every day to promote and ensure our nation’s energy security, and I could not be more proud of the cutting edge work they do.” Battelle Energy Alliance’s contract to operate and manage the INL will be extended through September 2024. The DOE says the decision was based on BEA’s “exceptional performance” in managing the site. Congressman Simpson is Chairman of the U.S House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Department of Energy. Senator Risch is a senior member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, with jurisdiction over the Department of Energy. Senator Crapo is a member of the Senate Budget Committee, which debates the budget blueprint for federal departments. The delegation members note that INL has had a scientific research and nuclear engineering presence in Southeastern Idaho for sixty years and has built, operated and tested 51 nuclear reactors in that time. Today, it is the lead nuclear energy laboratory for DOE’s office of Nuclear Energy, supporting domestic civilian energy priorities along with key defense and homeland security initiatives.
11.30.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson discussed the issue of fire borrowing during a House Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with Chief of the Forest Service, Tony Tooke this week. Specifically, Simpson emphasized the need to fund wildfires like other natural disasters. “Solving the issue of fire borrowing has been one of my top legislative priorities in Congress,” said Simpson. “In Idaho and other western states, fire-borrowing has decimated the budgets of land management agencies and caused fire seasons to increase in severity and cost. If we can find a better way to budget for these catastrophic fires, we can improve our lands and our budget outlook.” Currently, agencies like the Forest Service must borrow from non-fire accounts when fire suppression costs exceed the budget. “Fire borrowing” was intended to be an extraordinary measure, but as fire seasons have grown more destructive it has become common practice—and has created a devastating cycle that prevents agencies from doing needed hazardous fuels removal or timber harvests; ultimately leading to worse fires. To solve this issue, Congressman Simpson has introduced the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which would fund wildfires like other natural disasters. During the hearing, Congressman Simpson asked Chief Tooke what the consequences would be if they didn’t address the rising costs of wildfire suppression funding. “I’m hopeful we get this done this year. However, if we don’t address the 10 year average (mechanism used to predict annual wildfire suppression funding) that 55% (share of wildfire funding in Forest Service total budget) will continue to grow.” Chief Tooke agreed saying, “Yes, according to our projections, even if we have a low to moderate fire years the next few years, the ten year average will grow by $500 million over the next five years.” In 1995, the Forest Service spent 16% of their budget on wildfire suppression. Fiscal Year 2016 was 56% and it will be more than two-thirds by 2021. This means that the Forest Service spends the majority of its time, funding, and staff resources putting out fires instead of managing public lands. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act is supported by 89 bipartisan members of Congress and over 200 organizations.
11.16.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act today in the House of Representatives. H.R. 1 is the first comprehensive tax reform legislation to pass the House since 1986. “Since coming to Congress, I’ve talked to farmers, ranchers and businesses throughout Idaho and I consistently hear about the burden that our overly complex, outdated, and unfair tax code puts on families and small businesses,” said Simpson. “This bill will relieve much of that burden and allow more people to see a greater share of their paychecks in their wallet. This will empower families in Idaho to make the decisions that they believe are best for their family, as opposed to sending their hard earned money to Washington.” H.R. 1 will lower tax rates on individuals and businesses of all sizes. It will nearly double the standard deduction, so the first $12,000 earned by an individual and $24,000 earned by a married couple is completely tax-free. It will also lower individual tax rates, significantly increase the child tax credit, and create a new $300 tax credit for families caring for non-child dependents. It retains tax incentives that benefit individuals and families such as the home mortgage interest, charitable contributions, higher education, adoption, and retirement security. The bill also repeals the estate tax, also known as the “death tax” which is a top concern for family owned farms across Idaho. “The United States has one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world, so taking that rate down to 20% is going to benefit our entire economy,” said Simpson. “We need to stop incentivizing companies from leaving America to go create jobs elsewhere. Not only will they stay and create more jobs, but the wages for American workers will be higher and our businesses will be more competitive on a global stage. Simply put, this legislation is about creating economic growth in the United States by unleashing American small businesses and unburdening middle class families so they make better financial decisions with their own money.” In addition to lowering the corporate tax to 20%, H.R. 1 will reduce the tax rate on business income to no more than 25%; establish safeguards to distinguish individual wage income and “pass through” business income; modernize our international tax system; and eliminates incentives that currently reward companies from shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. H.R. 1 passed by a vote of 227-205. The Senate is working on their own version of H.R. 1 and is expected to conference that version with the House legislation in December.
11.15.2017	The House of Representatives today passed the conference report to H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported this legislation which fulfills Congress’ constitutional responsibility to provide for the common defense in addition to authorizing many important programs that support our military, including a pay increase and benefits to military members and their families. “The overwhelmingly support of the conference report to the NDAA by the House of Representatives sends a strong signal of support to our troops,” said Simpson. “It is imperative that our military has the necessary tools to protect us from ever-changing threats.” The conference report also includes important Idaho priorities such as language that streamlines the conveyance of an unused Air Force-owned rail spur near the Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB) to the City of Mountain Home. The city plans to leverage this rail for economic development to attract businesses to the city, leading to job growth for its residents and for military dependents. Simpson was first to include conveyance language in the House version of the NDAA. “I am thrilled that the conveyance language was included in the conference report, and I look forward to the economic opportunities that it will bring to the city of Mountain Home and Idaho,” said Simpson. “Both city officials and base leaders are excited that it will not only be an impetus to bring new businesses and jobs to the city, but also improve quality of life for local residents and military families.” The conference report also authorizes full funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II to continue its operation. An A-10 squadron currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise, and is essential to the mission there. Funding for new trainee barracks for the Idaho Army National Guard and a digital air ground range at the Orchard Combat Training Center, high priorities for the Army to improve Guard readiness, are also authorized in this bill. This bill provides for a 2.4% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty and 810,000 Guard and Reserve troops. The conference report to H.R. 2810 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 356-70.
11.03.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following on the news that former Congressman Orval Hansen passed away on Thursday evening. “Kathy and I are saddened to hear of the passing of Congressman Hansen,” said Simpson. “He saw the potential that existed in our state for world class nuclear energy research and because of that vision, Idaho National Laboratory is a respected leader in energy research. We are greatly indebted to Congressman Hansen for his service to Idaho and our nation.”
11.01.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted in favor of legislation that would advance effective forest management and address the issue of fire-borrowing. H.R. 2936, the Resilient Federal Forests Act would promote collaborative forest management, reduce frivolous litigation, and modernize the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act. Included in the package is Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan H.R. 1483, the Litigation Relief for Forest Management Projects Act which would reverse a disastrous court ruling that has created duplicative steps in projects intended for conservation and forest health. H.R. 2936 passed the House by a vote of 232-188. “Idahoans know all too well about the devastating impacts of catastrophic wildfires,” said Congressman Simpson. “The air quality in the summer, the evacuations from our communities, and the resources it takes to fight fires are all serious problems in Idaho. That is why Congress needs to act. I am pleased this legislation addresses the litigation issues that have halted far too many projects and promotes collaborative forest management provisions that seek to improve the health of our forests.” “We also need to fix fire-borrowing,” said Simpson. “The rolling-ten year average, which is used to calculate the cost of wildfires, has decimated the Forest Service budget. Wildfire funding is anticipated to consume two-thirds of the total Forest Service budget by 2021 if we don’t change the current budgeting process. The status quo leaves little room to fund programs that actually prevent wildfires and reduce overall costs. That is why I proposed a solution to fix this problem.” Congressman Simpson introduced H.R 2862, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (WDFA) which is bipartisan legislation that had 150 cosponsors in the 114th Congress. The bill would treat wildfires like other natural disasters and eliminate the need for fire-borrowing. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance the needed reforms in both my Wildfire Disaster Funding Act and H.R. 2936 so we can curb the cost of wildfire suppression funding and protect our landscapes and communities from the catastrophic fires we have sadly grown accustomed to in the west.”
10.05.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement in response to the Department of the Interior’s announcement that they will take public comments in an effort to improve the current Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land use plans. “Today’s announcement from the Department of the Interior regarding BLM’s sage-grouse management plans is welcome news in Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “Secretary Zinke and his team should be applauded for taking this important step which is needed to restore the collaborative process between federal and state partners and to realign the federal plans in Idaho with that of the state’s. I look forward to working with Governor Otter to refocus these plans on their original intent - which is conserving species through common sense measures that work for Idaho’s landscape.”
09.14.2017	On Thursday, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of full year fiscal year 2018 funding. While a continuing resolution funds the government until December 2017, full year appropriations must still be passed for the remainder of the fiscal year. The bill was passed by a vote of 211-198 and includes legislation previously passed by the House including Chairman Simpson’s Energy and Water bill which has critical funding for Idaho National Laboratory. “Today’s legislation is an important step towards finishing fiscal year 2018 appropriations,” said Congressman Simpson. “This bill is an important marker for many Idaho priorities such as PILT, wildfire funding, and provisions that rein in burdensome regulations from the previous Administration. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see that these policies ultimately are signed into law so we can ensure federal agencies can fulfill their missions as quickly and efficiently as possible.” Interior and Environment $465 million for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $30,054,704 in PILT funding for FY17. Full funding for wildfire suppression at the ten-year average of $3.4 billion for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service; Increases funding for hazardous fuels management which is vital to preventing catastrophic wildfires; Language that authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule; Language which prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species; Language that directs the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue two final rules removing recovered wolves in Wyoming and in the Western Great Lakes from the endangered species list; Language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court; Funding for the Rural Water Technical Assistance program to help small communities provide safe and affordable drinking water; Language that prohibits a ban on issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety; Language that directs the Bureau of Land Management to work with the State of Idaho regarding aquifer recharge;Language that expresses concern with the Cottonwood Environmental Law Center v. U.S. Forest Service court decision and encourages the Administration to work with Congress to find a solution. Congressman Simpson introduced legislation to reverse the court decision which has threatened 80 vegetative management projects and hundreds of millions of board feet. Agriculture “Whether it is resources for our farmers and ranchers or research that guarantees a safe and efficient food supply, USDA plays a vital role in Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “The Sheep Station in Dubois is important to Idaho, and language in the bill gives stakeholders and ARS the opportunity to come together to work on a viable, long-term future.” Provides funding for the USDA Rural Utilities Service Circuit Rider program which helps fund rural communities to provide safe and affordable drinking water; Provides funding for National Institutes of Food and Agriculture potato and wheat research; Continues previous years’ language authored by Congressman Simpson that blocks the President’s proposed closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho; Language directing the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based on existing standards which is similar to Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan DAIRY Pride Act. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education “In Idaho, Impact Aid is important to the counties and school districts that are impacted by federal activities and I’m glad this bill honors that responsibility,” said Congressman Simpson. “I’m also extremely pleased with the funding increase for NIH. Simply put, this money saves lives and improves the health of Americans.” $1.3 billion—a $5 million dollar increase over FY17 for Impact Aid which benefits Idaho counties and schools; Provides for a $1.1 billion increase to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to continue lifesaving research initiatives; Provides funding to address the nation’s opioid addiction crisis through prevention and treatment initiatives. The House passed bills will now be conferenced with their Senate companions to finalize fiscal year 2018 funding by the December 8th expiration of the continuing resolution.
08.25.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued this statement on the news that former Governor and Secretary of the Interior Cecil Andrus died Thursday. “Idaho and our nation have lost a truly great statesman and conservationist today. Kathy and I send our prayers and thoughts to his family for their loss. Governor Andrus will rightly be remembered as a legend in the conservation field. It was fitting that he cut his political teeth protecting Castle Peak as I think they both have a lot in common. They are giants in Idaho and icons to those who believe conservation is a necessity and not a luxury. We will truly miss Cece, but we will always be reminded of how great he was as we are surrounded by his legacy of conservation.” To view an Idaho Statesman video of Congressman Simpson honoring former Governor Cecil Andrus, please click here.
08.23.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson and National Institutes of Health (NIH) Director Dr. Francis Collins, toured Boise State University and discussed the important research being conducted on campus. Dr. Collins had the chance to meet with BSU faculty and students to discuss the future of biomedical research and the role NIH plays in helping institutions like Boise State advance lifesaving research. “I am grateful that Dr. Collins took time out of his busy schedule to visit Boise,” said Congressman Simpson. “I always tell people NIH is the nation’s best kept secret. Many people don’t realize that more than 80 percent of their funding goes to universities and private institutions which then transforms into lifesaving biomedical research. Boise State has great potential to expand its research footprint and I am thankful Dr. Collins took time to visit with students and faculty to better understand their talent and capabilities. It is truly an honor to have a highly respected voice in the research community visit Idaho.” “I’m gratified to see the taxpayer dollar hard at work producing biomedical innovations for the American people,” said NIH Director Francis S. Collins, M.D., Ph.D. “I’m grateful to Rep. Mike Simpson for arranging an opportunity for me to see the research efforts underway at Boise State University and the University of Idaho, and for giving me the chance to interact with the next generation of researchers.” “Biomedical research is a high priority for Boise State University and the State of Idaho, and funding from the National Institutes of Health is a key element to ensuring success,” said Bob Kustra, president of Boise State University. “One prime example is in the work of Dr. Julia Oxford, who has established the Center of Biomedical Research Excellence in matrix biology at Boise State with NIH funding. By empowering researchers, we have seen some incredible outcomes here on campus, including the development of new anti-cancer drugs. The Bimolecular Research Center is a highly collaborative research center, and our undergraduate and graduate students play a critical role.” Congressman Simpson plays a key role in funding NIH through his seat on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee. In fiscal year 2016 and 2017, the subcommittee increased NIH funding by $4 billion which will go directly to research initiatives that seek cures for Alzheimer’s, cancer, and other diseases. “You will be hard-pressed to find a more worthy use of taxpayer dollars than research that is directly attributed to savings lives,” said Congressman Simpson. “I look forward to working with Dr. Collins to support NIH’s mission and the continued results which benefit all Americans.”
08.10.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement regarding the Forest Service announcement to begin a trail from Redfish Lake to Stanley, ID. “Building a Redfish to Stanley Trail was an important piece in the Boulder-White Clouds compromise. I am pleased that individuals and families with children of all ages will be able to safely hike and bike from Redfish Lake to Stanley where they will be able to enjoy the stores, restaurants and bakery. This is a great development for recreation on our federal lands, tourism and the local economy. I would like to commend USFS Chief Tom Tidwell, Forest Supervisor, Sawtooth National Forest Kit Mullen and the staff of the SNRA along with the Federal Highway Administration for moving forward with the Redfish Lake to Stanley Trail. Their dedication and commitment to this project is greatly appreciated.”
07.27.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the passage of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, 2018. The Make America Secure Appropriations Act includes four individual appropriations bills - Defense, Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs, as well as fully funding the President’s request for the border wall – for Fiscal Year (FY) 2018. H.R. 3218 is a national security appropriations bill which prioritizes funds for our troops, veterans and their families, U.S. Capitol Police, securing the border, nuclear security, and our nation’s waterways infrastructure. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. Several important provisions for Idaho were incorporated in the package, including the following: Energy and Water “The FY18 Energy and Water bill provides comprehensive investment for the groundbreaking research and development conducted at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “Whether it be through its work in advanced reactor and fuel development, battery and bioenergy programs, or protecting the electric grid from cyber-attacks; the INL is enhancing our national security and increasing American competitiveness. I am pleased that this bill fulfills the needs of the lab to continue this critical work, and that it sends a strong message of support for its world class workforce.” The FY 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $969 million. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $969 billion allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $238 million – a $6.3 million increase over last year. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $133 million – an increase of $3.7 million over fiscal year 2017. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $126.7 million – an increase of $11.6 million above fiscal year 2017. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million, the same as last year. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $219.3 million – an increase of $87.3 million above last year. Within the overall $219 million level for this account, $30 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, and $60 million is for a solicitation to support technical, first-of-its-kind engineering and design and regulatory development of next generation light water and non-light water reactor technologies, including small modular reactors. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $71 million; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $45 million. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $82.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $9 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $382 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $4 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Defense “In the fight against ISIS, the A-10 continues to provide invaluable close air support and it is paramount that the A-10 continues to remain available as a tool for our brave men and women in combat,” said Simpson. “While there will be a time when they will need to be replaced, it continues to merit our support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” The Defense portion of the bill provides funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II which is based at Gowen Field in Boise, the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard and is essential to the mission there. The bill also includes: Fully funds a 2.4% pay increase for over 1.3 million active-duty troops and 820,000 Guard and Reserve troops. Veterans “This legislation provides critical support for military infrastructure and our nation’s veterans,” said Simpson. “Chairman Dent’s thorough and dedicated work on this bill resulted in a discretionary funding increase of $6 billion above fiscal year 2017 levels, funds that will fulfill our obligations to provide housing and services, as well as training and equipment for our military personnel.” Simpson also applauded the bill for providing far-reaching support for veterans by funding mental health services, suicide prevention initiatives, and homeless veterans’ services. “Just as veterans served our nation in its times of need, our country must remember them in their time of need. This legislation does just that.” Border Security “Our current immigration system is not working,” said Simpson. “The status quo cannot continue and reforming our immigration system, like any complex problem, will require difficult decisions requiring Republicans and Democrats to work together to solve. First, we will need to ensure that our borders are secure and I am glad that this bill starts to tackle that very serious issue. I also recognize that we need to overhaul our guest worker programs and address the issue of legal status for those who are working and living in our local communities.” Included in this bill is funding to construct a physical barrier along the southwest border of the United States. The Make America Secure Act, 2018 passed the House by a vote of 235-192 and will later be conferenced with Senate versions of these bills.
07.19.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of the fiscal year 2018 House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, which contains many important provisions to Idaho. Congressman Simpson has continually advocated for essential funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and wildfire suppression and prevention, which are included in this year’s bill. “The Interior Appropriations bill is arguably the most important piece of legislation for the western United States,” said Congressman Simpson. “I am pleased this bill addresses the federal government’s responsibility to public lands counties by funding PILT. This is how many counties pay for essential services such as roads and schools. Until we find a much needed long term solution to PILT, I will continue to ensure these payments are fully funded and arrive on time.” The Interior bill also includes a number of priorities championed by Simpson that benefit Idaho, including: Full funding for wildfire suppression at the ten-year average of $3.4 billion for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service; Increased funding for hazardous fuels management which is vital to preventing catastrophic wildfires; Language that authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and Secretary of the Army to withdraw the Waters of the United States rule; Language which prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species; Language that directs the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue two final rules removing recovered wolves in Wyoming and in the Western Great Lakes from the endangered species list; Language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court; Funding for the Rural Water Technical Assistance program to help small communities provide safe and affordable drinking water; Language that prohibits a ban on issuing new closures of public lands to hunting and recreational shooting, except in the case of public safety; Language that directs the Bureau of Land Management to work with the State of Idaho regarding aquifer recharge; Language that expresses concern with the Cottonwood Environmental Law Center v. U.S. Forest Service court decision and encourages the Administration to work with Congress to find a solution. Congressman Simpson introduced legislation to reverse the court decision which has threatened 80 vegetative management projects and hundreds of millions of board feet. “Whether it is authorizing the EPA to roll back disastrous rules from the former Administration or adequately funding programs to combat wildfires, this bill addresses issues that impacts Idahoans on a daily basis. I look forward to advancing the bill on the House floor.” The legislation was adopted by the committee last night by a vote of 30-21.
07.14.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised passage of H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018. This bill fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense by funding the Department of Defense, and authorizes many important programs that support our military, including a pay increase and benefits to military members and their families. “I am thrilled to see this bill provide our service members with the necessary tools and support they need to keep up safe at home and abroad,” said Simpson. “With ever-changing threats, we must ensure that our military can protect us from those that wish to do us harm.” The NDAA contained many important priorities for Idaho including an amendment offered by Congressman Simpson that streamlines the conveyance of an unused Air Force-owned rail spur near the Mountain Home Air Force Base (AFB) to the City of Mountain Home. This amendment was developed in consensus with the City of Mountain Home and the Air Force. The city will leverage this rail for economic development to attract businesses to the city and lead to job growth for its residents and for military dependents. Without legislative action, this project could have been delayed years and held up important economic development. “I am very pleased that my amendment was adopted, and I am excited to see the rail conveyance create economic opportunities in the region,” said Simpson. “There is great potential for this conveyance to strengthen and diversify the economy for both Mountain Home and the State of Idaho. I am also pleased that this conveyance provides a great partnering opportunity for the city of Mountain Home and Mountain Home Air Force Base. It’s a win-win for the city and the base.” The railway is critical to attracting business to the city’s planned industrial park. Each new business attracted by the immediate proximity of rail transport will create jobs from diverse fields and levels. The bill also includes a provision preventing the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II, and authorizes funding for the aircraft to continue its operation. An A-10 squadron currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise. “I am pleased to back the A-10 which ensures that our service members will have the necessary tools they need in close air combat support,” said Simpson. “While there will be a time when the aircraft will need to be replaced, we have to ensure that an appropriate replacement can be identified before that happens.” The bill also authorizes funding for new trainee barracks for the Idaho Army National Guard, a high priority for the Army to improve Guard readiness. This bill provides for a 2.4% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty and 820,000 Guard and Reserve troops. H.R. 2810 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 344-81.
07.13.2017	Idaho Congressman applauds U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke for his announcement today that Craters of the Moon National Monument is no longer under review. Further, the Secretary will recommend that no modifications should be made to the monument. “I applaud Secretary Zinke for honoring the local consensus Idahoans have created with Craters of the Moon,” said Congressman Simpson. “I worked with a diverse group of stakeholders over ten years ago to ensure Craters reflects Idaho values and can be enjoyed by outdoor enthusiasts. I know Secretary Zinke shares these values and I thank him for his leadership.” In a press release issued by Secretary Zinke he said, “As a former geologist, I realize Craters of the Moon is a living timeline of the geologic history of our land on the Great Rift. Whether it’s hiking up the alien-like lava flows along the Spatter Cones, or just driving through the scenic loop, there’s a lot to see and learn at this historic location.” Craters of the Moon National Monument was under review in accordance with President Trump’s April 26, 2017, executive order. Secretary Zinke’s recommendation comes after review of public comments and conversations with stakeholders.
07.12.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Fiscal Year 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill protects funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which passed the bill through the full House Appropriations Committee today, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The FY18 Energy and Water bill provides comprehensive investment for the groundbreaking research and development conducted at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “Whether it be through its work in advanced reactor and fuel development, battery and bioenergy programs, or protecting the electric grid from cyber-attacks; the INL is enhancing our national security and increasing American competitiveness. I am pleased that this bill fulfills the needs of the lab to continue this critical work, and that it sends a strong message of support for its world class workforce.” The FY 2018 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $969 million. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $969 billion allocation include: · The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $238 million – a $6.3 million increase over last year. · INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $133 million – an increase of $3.7 million over fiscal year 2017. · The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $126.7 million – an increase of $11.6 million above fiscal year 2017. · The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million, the same as last year. · The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $219.3 million – an increase of $87.3 million above last year. Within the overall $219 million level for this account, $30 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, and $60 million is for a solicitation to support technical, first-of-its-kind engineering and design and regulatory development of next generation light water and non-light water reactor technologies, including small modular reactors. · Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $71 million; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $45 million. · Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $82.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. · Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $9 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $382 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $4 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $37.6 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “From water projects across the nation to critical energy research and national security, the Energy and Water bill has a wide reach,” Chairman Simpson said. “This bill prioritizes fulfilling our national security needs and maintaining critical investments to advance our economy within tight budget caps,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “It strikes a responsible balance between the modernization and safety of our nuclear weapons, advancing our national infrastructure, and strategic investments in basic science and energy R&D.” The House Appropriations Committee also passed the fiscal year 2018 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The legislation includes important priorities to Idaho such as vital research and support for farmers and ranchers. Similar to previous years, Congressman Simpson authored language in the Agriculture Appropriations bill that blocks the President’s proposed closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. “I am pleased that the House Appropriations Committee is sending a clear message that recognizes the station’s valuable work,” said Congressman Simpson. “While I was disappointed that USDA proposed to close the facility, this creates an important opportunity towards ensuring that stakeholders and ARS come together to work on a viable, long-term future for the sheep station.” Also included in the Agriculture Appropriations bill are other important Idaho priorities such as potato and wheat research funding, support for pest eradication programs, and language directing the FDA to develop a standard identity for dairy based on existing standards which is similar to Congressman Simpson’s bipartisan DAIRY Pride Act. The two bills are expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks.
06.27.2017	Idaho Congressman Simpson praised the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers proposed rule to repeal the “waters of the United States” (WOTUS) definition that was submitted by the previous Administration. Today’s proposed rule withdraws WOTUS and allows for a rewrite of the definition, which will provide regulatory certainty for farmers, ranchers, local municipalities, and others who have voiced concerns with WOTUS. “I applaud the Administration for taking this important step to provide Idahoans with regulatory relief,” said Simpson. “The WOTUS rule from the previous Administration blatantly overreached into our lives in the West, which is why I fought this massive expansion of federal jurisdiction since day one. I am pleased this Administration recognizes the WOTUS rule is unworkable and way beyond the scope of the federal government.” The controversial rule would have expanded the definition of “waters of the United States” and as a result, federal regulation and permitting under the Clean Water Act. The rule, as written, could apply to virtually all water, including ground water. States currently regulate non-navigable water. Congressman Simpson has been a leader on this issue, currently chairing the appropriations subcommittee overseeing the budget for the US Army Corps of Engineers and is a member of the subcommittee overseeing the budget for the EPA. In those roles, he has authored language passed by the House that would prevent the EPA and the US Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their regulatory jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. In fact, Congressman Simpson today released his Energy and Water Appropriations legislation, which includes language authorizing the Administrator of the EPA and the Corps to withdraw the WOTUS rule. “With the introduction of my Energy and Water bill today - alongside the proposed withdrawal of the rule itself – two branches of government are sending a clear message to the American people that the federal government must defer to the authority of States to regulate state waters.”
06.08.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson and Oregon Congressman Kurt Schrader today reintroduced the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (WDFA), legislation which would fix the current budgeting process for wildfires. In recent years, Congress has budgeted for wildfire suppression by appropriating money according to the average cost for wildfires over the past ten years, known as the “ten-year average.” When costs exceed an agency’s fire budget, that agency is forced to borrow from non-fire accounts to pay for fire suppression. This practice is known as “fire-borrowing.” Robbing these accounts means that the Forest Service and other land management agencies have fewer resources available for forest management activities like hazardous fuels reduction that would prevent catastrophic fires. As a result, fires get worse and wildfire suppression costs end up devouring the agency’s budget. “I have seen the cost of wildfires in Idaho and the impacts it has on our forests when funds that are planned for forest management are used to fight wildfires,” said Simpson. “When more than fifty percent of an agency’s budget is unpredictable, you are creating a recipe for the unsustainable fire-borrowing we see today that devastates our forests and costs taxpayers. I am pleased to reintroduce the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act with Congressman Schrader again this Congress. It is time to acknowledge that catastrophic wildfires should be funded like natural disasters so we can ensure that land managers have the resources they need to properly manage our forests.” “Simply put, the current system is broken,” said Schrader. “Because we do no project management to help protect our forests, we end up paying much more to fight costly carbon producing wildfires that again devastate our ability to do the critical forest management on our public lands in the first place. These fires should be treated the same as any other natural disaster. Budgeting to address the mismanagement of our forests would free up financial resources. Our bill will work to fix this root problem by reducing fuel loads, improving forest health, save taxpayers money, and provide jobs in our struggling rural communities.” Fire borrowing was intended to be an extraordinary measure to help in bad wildfire years. However, this practice has become the norm and not the exception, which has caused wildfire costs to increase. According to the Forest Service, wildfire costs were 56% of their total budget in 2016. In 1995, the Forest Service spent only 16% of their total budget fighting wildfires. By 2025, that number could increase to nearly 70% if nothing is done to fix the budgeting process. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would end fire borrowing by treating wildfires like other natural disasters when wildfire suppression costs are exhausted. Most importantly, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act would protect land management programs by protecting the budget from the increasing ten-year average. Wildfire suppression would still be funded through the normal budgeting and appropriations process, but when the Forest Service exceeds its annual wildfire suppression budget, the agency would be able to fund wildfire fighting costs like other natural disasters. This allows the Forest Service and other land management agencies to maintain resources in the prevention accounts they are intended for, ultimately preventing catastrophic wildfires from growing in size and cost. The Wildfire Disaster Funding Act was also introduced in the 113th and 114th Congress. The legislation received 150 bipartisan cosponsors and the support of more than 300 organizations. Original cosponsors for the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act of 2017 include Representatives Mark Amodei, Suzanne Bonamici, Ken Calvert, Jim Costa, Peter DeFazio, Marcy Kaptur, Derek Kilmer, Raul Labrador, Betty McCollum, Cathy McMorris-Rodgers, Dan Newhouse, Jared Polis, Kysrten Sinema, Steve Stivers, Scott Tipton, and Greg Walden.
05.26.2017	On Thursday, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson discussed important Idaho issues with Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell during a hearing held by the House Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee. The topics ranged from ongoing litigation that prevents the Forest Service from managing public lands, to treating wildfire funding like other natural disasters. “How do you maintain the public’s right to have a say in how their public lands are managed and get on with managing instead of spending all the resources we use in lawsuits?” said Simpson. “We have created situations where you can get sued at multiple steps in the process and it is just unmanageable.” Congressman Simpson has long expressed concerns with frivolous litigation and recently introduced bipartisan legislation to reverse a court ruling that risks 80 vegetative management projects and hundreds of millions of board feet according to the Forest Service. Secretary Perdue echoed his concerns about the court decision known as Cottonwood. Simpson also raised the issue of ending the disastrous practice of fire borrowing and treating wildfires like other natural disasters. “Fire borrowing has gotten out of hand,” said Simpson. “When 53 percent of your budget is going to fight wildfires that means there is no money left for anything else… We have appropriated money for (trail maintenance), but guess what? It has gone to fight wildfires...We need your help (Secretary Perdue) to make leadership understand the importance of this issue.” Congressman Simpson has long championed the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which would fix the way wildfires are currently budgeted for by treating catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters. The legislation received 150 cosponsors last Congress. To view Congressman Simpson raising these important issues, visit the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F_E37zD8GwY&feature=youtu.be
05.23.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement addressing the Administration’s FY18 Budget. “Now that Congress has received the Administration’s FY18 budget, my colleagues and I will give serious thought and discussion to the proposals that the President has put forward. I look forward to carefully reviewing the President’s request in the coming weeks so that Congress can get to work on funding bills for fiscal year 2018, which begins in just a few short months. Although we are starting the process later than normal this year, our subcommittee will do what it does every year; scrutinize the request and hold hearings with administration officials to inform our line-by-line funding decisions. This is the responsibility entrusted to the Congress by the Constitution, and we take that obligation very seriously. “The Administration deserves credit for taking our nation’s fiscal crisis seriously, but I hope that in the coming years we can begin the conversation on addressing the real drivers of our debt, which remain untouched by the yearly appropriations process. Mandatory programs remain on autopilot and continue to grow, dwarfing all other government programs in terms of spending. That is why I will continue to advocate for “going big” with a package of spending cuts paired with tax and entitlement reform, as it is the only way we will truly put our country back on solid fiscal footing.”
05.05.2017	On Friday, President Trump signed the Fiscal Year 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act into law which includes Congressman Simpson's agreement on the Gateway West Transmission Line. “I applaud President Trump for signing the fiscal year 2017 appropriations legislation into law,” said Congressman Simpson. “This bill contains many important provisions for Idaho including an agreement that allows the Gateway West Transmission line to pursue an Idaho-based solution while enhancing the Birds of Prey conservation area. This is a win-win for Idahoans.” “We are delighted this provision was signed into law,” stated Danielle Murray, Senior Director of Programs for the National Conservation Lands. “This law expands protections for the unique raptor and eagle habitat in southern Idaho, while also allowing for the development of much needed energy infrastructure.” “I'm grateful to Congressman Simpson, our delegation and key stakeholders for helping advance a critical economic development priority for Idaho,” Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter said. “The Gateway West transmission line has been held up by federal bureaucracy for far too long, so I'm pleased to see legislation on this important infrastructure project finally moving forward.” The Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area Boundary Modification Act allows the transmission line to be routed using the preferred alternative of the Bureau of Land Management’s Resource Advisory Council (RAC) and is supported by the State of Idaho and Idaho Power. The agreement also includes land in the NCA being removed from NCA status and managed as BLM multiple use land. In exchange, the Birds of Prey NCA will receive enhanced mitigation and conservation measures and an additional 4,800 acres will be added to the NCA. The Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area Boundary Modification Act was cosponsored by Congressman Raul Labrador and received support from Senator Jim Risch and Senator Mike Crapo. The legislation is also supported by conservation groups and the State of Idaho.
05.04.2017	On Thursday, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the American Health Care Act which passed the House of Representatives by 217-213. The legislation is a repeal and replacement plan for Obamacare. “I voted against the passage of Obamacare and I have voted to repeal it over 60 times,” said Simpson. “Many members promised the American public that they would repeal and replace Obamacare and this vote is the first step to fulfilling that promise. I believe in keeping my promises.” Specifically, H.R. 1628 begins the process of replacing Obamacare with provisions that lower premiums and provide more choices for health coverage. The Congressional Budget Office found that premiums will be 10% lower under this legislation. One such mechanism to do this is to provide over $130 billion to Patient and State Stability Funds to lower costs and stabilize insurance markets, including a dedicated fund for states to expand services for mental health, addiction treatment, and further support for patients with pre-existing conditions. The bill also eliminates the most burdensome Obamacare mandates such as the individual mandate, the employer mandate, and numerous tax increases that have driven up health care costs. “The Affordable Care Act is unsustainable given its current trajectory. The thought of a total collapse in the health care market is simply too dangerous to ignore given the stakes. The question today was to stick with Obamacare or to start the process of fixing our broken health care system. The American Health Care Act is the only opportunity we have to start that replacement process. It is not perfect given the limited scope of reconciliation rules, but to fix health care we need to start somewhere.” The legislation includes an amendment to provide additional support for people with pre-existing conditions. Importantly, states may not – under any circumstance - ever obtain a waiver for pre-existing condition protection, prohibition on gender discrimination, guaranteed issue and renewability, or for the right of dependents to stay on a family plan up to the age 26. In March, the House also passed two health care reform bills that will lower costs through increased competition. The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act is a policy change that Congressman Simpson has long cosponsored and supported. The legislation would level the playing field by removing the McCarran-Ferguson Act’s federal antitrust exemption for health insurance businesses. Congressman Simpson voted in favor of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act which passed by a large bipartisan vote of 416-7. The Small Business Health Fairness Act would allow small businesses to join together to offer coverage through association health plans thus providing another option for purchasing health insurance and creating competition. The legislation also passed the House with bipartisan support of 236-175.
05.03.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the House passage of H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2017, which included many important provisions for Idaho and Western States. “This is a comprehensive and responsible package that contains many significant wins for Idaho and Western States, and will avoid a government shut down,” said Simpson. “It is the product of this past year’s worth of thoughtful deliberation and line-by-line analysis of every program in the federal budget. Funding our government through short term Continuing Resolutions is unsustainable, and, frankly, not a responsible way to govern. Through this agreement, Congress has fulfilled its duty of keeping our government open, and while no one got everything they wanted in the final package, we have paved the way back to regular order in the weeks and months to come.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Vice Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment, Simpson had a key role in deciding funding levels for Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs, including the following highlights: Energy and Water Development “The Energy and Water section of this bill makes critical investments into nuclear energy research and development programs and funds much needed infrastructure improvements at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “It will enhance the current capabilities of the nation’s lead nuclear lab and building new, unique capabilities that are essential to maintaining U.S. leadership in this field. This bill also makes significant investments in nonproliferation and grid security programs, where INL plays a leading role. INL and its world class workforce is a national gem, and I am proud that this bill recognizes that. ” The fiscal year (FY) 2017 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.02 billion, an increase of $30 million above fiscal year 2016 and $23 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $1.02 billion allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $238 million – an increase of $11 million above the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $129.3 million – an increase of $3.1 million over fiscal year 2016. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $115.1 million – an increase of $3.5 million above fiscal year 2016 and $26 million above the request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $95 million. This funding supports NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $68 million—a $6 million increase from fiscal year 2016; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $85 million. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $75.1 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor to accelerate planned reliability-related infrastructure upgrades, and $100 million is included for the Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization Project. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $9 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $7 million is included to continue performance testing and life cycle diagnostic assessment activities that validate and verify advanced battery performance. The bill also provides $382 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level of $382 million will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. Finally, the bill includes an additional $4 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Interior and Environment “The Interior bill is possibly the most important legislative vehicle Westerners have,” said Congressman Simpson. “The fiscal year 2017 bill provides full funding to fight wildfires, funding for wildfire prevention programs, full funding for PILT, provisions that rein in the EPA, and more. I am also extremely pleased to see my legislation on Gateway West included in the bill. This important compromise is an Idaho solution that will benefit the Birds of Prey and Idaho Ratepayers.” Includes Congressman Simpson’s legislation that addresses the routing of the routing of the Gateway West Transmission Line, through the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA). Provides $4.2 billion in wildfire programs including $407 million in emergency funding. The bill fully funds the 10 year average for wildfire suppression for both Department of the Interior and the Forest Service. Includes full funding of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $29,370,334 in PILT funding for FY16. Provides $570 million for hazardous fuels reduction activities—a $25 million increase over FY16. Cuts EPA funding by $209 million below the former President’s budget request which is $81.4 million below the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. Importantly, the bill reduces EPA regulatory programs by $52 million and $300 million below the former President’s request. The legislation also provides the new Administration flexibility to review and rewrite the “Waters of the United States” rule, the “Clean Power Plan,” and other environmental regulations. Provides $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves. Language which prevents listing of sage grouse as an endangered species. Directs EPA, U.S Department of Agriculture (USDA), and DOE to establish clear policies regarding the carbon neutrality of biomass which is an important energy source and part of an all of the above energy strategy. Continues language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court. Provides an $81 million increase for the National Park Service to help reduce the deferred maintenance backlog. Agriculture “Whether it is resources for our farmers and ranchers or research that guarantees a safe and efficient food supply, USDA plays a vital role in Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “Funding in this bill supports important commodities and recognizes the needs of rural communities in Idaho that are feeding the world. It is encouraging to see continued support for the sheep station and other activities in Idaho.” Provides increased funding for the USDA Rural Utilities Service Circuit Rider program which helps fund rural communities to provide safe and affordable drinking water. Provides increased funding for National Institutes of Food and Agriculture potato research. Includes language urging USDA to use existing authorities to create additional risk management tools for dairy farmers. Defense “The A-10 continues to show its value in close air support missions in the fight against ISIS and it is imperative that they continue to remain available as a tool for our brave men and women in combat,” said Simpson. “There will be a time when they will need to be replaced. However, until an appropriate replacement can be identified, it continues to merit our support.” The Defense portion of the bill provides funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II which is based at Gowen Field in Boise, the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard and is essential to the mission there. The bill also includes: Provides a 2.1% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty troops and 810,000 Guard and Reserve troops. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education “The Labor H bill touches the lives of every American,” said Congressman Simpson. “In Idaho, Impact Aid is important to the counties and school districts that are impacted by federal activities and I’m glad this bill honors that responsibility. I’m also extremely pleased with the funding increase for NIH. Simply put, this money saves lives and improves the health of Americans.” $1.3 billion—a $23 million dollar increase over FY16 for Impact Aid which benefits Idaho counties and schools. Provides for a $2 billion increase to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to continue lifesaving research initiatives. Provides a $650 million increase to address the nation’s opioid addiction crisis through prevention and treatment initiatives. The House passed H.R. 244 by a vote of 309-118, and it will be considered by the U.S. Senate later this week. Links to the bill text and reports can be found here: https://rules.house.gov/bill/115/hr-244
05.03.2017	On Wednesday, the House passed the Fiscal Year 2017 Consolidated Appropriations Act by a vote of 309-118. The legislation includes Congressman Mike Simpson and Congressman Raul Labrador’s Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area Boundary Modification Act, which addresses the routing of the Gateway West Transmission Line, through the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA). Idaho Senator Jim Risch, who sits on the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, played a key role in gathering support for the proposal in the Senate which led to its inclusion in a final package. The Gateway West legislation is also supported by Idaho Senator Mike Crapo. The compromise agreement allows the transmission line to be routed using the preferred alternative of the Bureau of Land Management’s Resource Advisory Council (RAC) and is supported by the State of Idaho and Idaho Power. The agreement also includes land in the NCA being removed from NCA status and managed as BLM multiple use land. In exchange, the Birds of Prey NCA will receive enhanced mitigation and conservation measures and an additional 4,800 acres will be added to the NCA. These balanced conservation provisions were agreed to by key stakeholders. “I am very grateful to Chairman Calvert and Chairman Murkowski for allowing our agreement into the legislation,” said Congressman Simpson. “Without consensus from pragmatic organizations like Conservation Lands Foundation and Idaho Power, this would simply not be possible. I am pleased this bill is moving forward and I am thrilled with the savings for Idaho ratepayers and benefits to an important conservation area in Idaho.” “While I opposed many things about the Omnibus bill, I am grateful to Congressman Simpson for his leadership in making sure our bill was included in the final package,” said Congressman Labrador. The Gateway West project will have a significant, positive impact on Idaho and I will continue working with Congressman Simpson and our Senators to see this project to the finish line.” “We are delighted to see the House pass the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area Boundary Modification Act,” stated Danielle Murray, Senior Director of Programs for the National Conservation Lands. “This legislation expands protections for the unique raptor and eagle habitat in southern Idaho, while also allowing for the development of much needed energy infrastructure.” “I'm grateful to Congressman Simpson, our delegation and key stakeholders for helping advance a critical economic development priority for Idaho,” Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter said. “The Gateway West transmission line has been held up by federal bureaucracy for far too long, so I'm pleased to see legislation on this important infrastructure project finally moving forward.”
04.07.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement regarding the U.S. military strikes in Syria: “I support the President’s action against the Assad regime. The United States of America took a strong stand tonight against the unfathomable act Bashar al-Assad conducted this week by murdering innocent men, women and children with a chemical attack.”
03.27.2017	Congressman Mike Simpson and Congressman Raul Labrador have introduced legislation to address the routing of the Gateway West Transmission Line, through the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area (NCA). The project – jointly proposed by Idaho Power and Rocky Mountain Power - will construct and operate 1,000 miles of high voltage transmission line across Wyoming and Idaho and creates more than 1,200 jobs and represents $3.5 billion in economic investment. The legislation is a compromise agreement between key stakeholders in Idaho including the State of Idaho, Idaho Power, and conservation organizations. The compromise agreement will allow the transmission line to be routed using the preferred alternative of the Bureau of Land Management’s Resource Advisory Council (RAC) and is supported by the State of Idaho and Idaho Power. The agreement also includes land in the NCA being removed from NCA status and managed as BLM multiple use land. In exchange, the Birds of Prey NCA will receive enhanced mitigation and conservation measures and an additional 4,800 acres will be added to the NCA. These balanced conservation provisions were agreed to by key stakeholders. “This agreement is a perfect example of collaboration resulting in a win-win solution,” said Congressman Simpson. “I applaud the Conservation Lands Foundation and Idaho Power for their pragmatic approach to a complex issue which will result in both savings for Idaho ratepayers and conservation benefits to the Birds of Prey National Conservation Area. I also appreciate the work of the BLM, who helped create this vision and will ultimately be tasked with the heavy lifting of implementation.” “This bill represents the conclusion of years of hard work by stakeholders,” said Congressman Labrador. “The Gateway West project will have a significant positive impact on Idaho. I am looking forward to moving this bill through the Natural Resources Committee and working with Representative Simpson and our Senators to see this project to the finish line.” The legislation was referred to the House Natural Resources Committee. The legislation is also supported by Idaho Senators Jim Risch and Mike Crapo who were instrumental in building consensus on the agreement. “This legislation is the culmination of a common-sense, consensus agreement between state and local representatives to best provide for Idaho's energy needs and promote the region's energy infrastructure moving forward,” said Senator Risch. “I applaud Congressman Mike Simpson for taking the lead and introducing this bill in the House of Representatives and look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to enact this legislation into law. I also want to thank Idaho Power and the Conservation Lands Foundation for their work--finding a balanced solution that best suits Idaho.” “This legislation is necessary to ensure the voices of local property owners and stakeholders are truly represented in the siting of this project,” said Senator Mike Crapo. “The Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area was designated in 1993 to protect the greatest concentration of nesting raptors in North America. It is extraordinary habitat,” stated Danielle Murray, Senior Director at the Conservation Lands Foundation. “This legislation expands protections for raptors and eagles while allowing for the development of much needed energy infrastructure. We thank BLM for all their work to protect this region and to Rep. Mike Simpson and Idaho Power for their willingness to engage with stakeholders to develop a sensible solution to a complex problem.” "I'm grateful to Congressman Simpson and our delegation for helping advance an important economic development priority for Idaho," Governor C.L. "Butch" Otter said. "We have been working on the Gateway West transmission line throughout my tenure as governor. I'm hopeful that this legislation, along with the support of key stakeholders, will finally move this critical infrastructure improvement forward." The agreement also has the support of key conservation groups in Idaho including the Idaho Conservation League, The Nature Conservancy, and The Wilderness Society. "The Idaho Conservation League supports this solution to a difficult challenge,” said ICL Executive Director Rick Johnson. We appreciate the diligent work of Rep. Mike Simpson, Conservation Lands Foundation, and other partners to provide as close to a win-win solution as can be imagined. Personally, having worked on the creation of the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area with Rep. Larry LaRocco in 1993, I am pleased to see how this resolution further the goals of that designation and provides a forward path for our region's energy infrastructure."
03.17.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson this week supported legislation to improve hiring practices at the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and to protect the Second Amendment Rights of veterans. H.R. 1259, the VA Accountability First Act, gives the VA Secretary increased flexibility to remove, demote, or suspend VA employees for performance or misconduct. This bill was introduced to streamline administrative action against underperforming employees at VA facilities. The bill also ensures protections for whistleblowers. “Our nation’s veterans deserve the best possible healthcare, administered by the best possible providers,” said Simpson. “I applaud efforts to hold bad actors accountable, and this legislation will help the VA do just that.” H.R. 1367, a bill to improve the authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to hire and retain physicians and other employees of VA, would create staffing, recruitment, and retention programs to ensure that VA hires and retains the best and brightest in the field. “This legislation will ensure that VA is hiring and retaining top quality physicians for our veterans while streamlining bureaucratic hiring processes,” said Simpson. “It puts our focus exactly where it should be—providing efficient and effective medical care to veterans.” H.R. 1181, the Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act, would protect the 2nd Amendment rights of veterans who have been appointed a fiduciary from the VA. Currently, such veterans are labeled mentally incompetent and their names are sent to the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s National Criminal Background Check System. This has the potential to prohibit these veterans from legally purchasing or owning a firearm. H.R. 1181 would require a magistrate or judicial authority ruling declaring that the beneficiary is a danger to themselves or others before VA can label them “mentally defective.” “The right to due process should be afforded to all citizens, especially to the men and women who protect this right for their fellow Americans,” emphasized Simpson. All three bills were passed by the House of Representatives and will now move to the U.S. Senate for further review and action.
03.16.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement concerning the release of President Trump’s Budget Blueprint. “The Administration’s budget blueprint has given us a sense of what President Trump’s priorities will be in the coming fiscal year. I look forward to receiving the full budget soon so that Congress can get to work and get back to regular order in our budget and appropriations process. Once we receive the full budget, our subcommittee will do what it does every year; it will scrutinize the request and hold hearings with administration officials to inform our line-by-line funding decisions. The power of the purse ultimately lies with Congress, and it is Congress that will need to strike the balance between cutting unnecessary programs and protecting vital ones that foster economic growth and increase national security.”
03.09.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised passage of H.R. 1301, the Fiscal Year (FY) 17 Defense Appropriations bill. Simpson supported the legislation which fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense by funding the Department of Defense. “This bill provides our troops with the tools necessary to keep us safe at home and abroad while providing service members and their families with the support they deserve,” said Simpson. “With an ever-changing enemy, we have to ensure our military is ready to protect us from those who want to do us harm.” Crucially, the bill also provides funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II, which currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise, and is essential to the mission there. The FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) contained language preventing the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II. The bill also provides for a 2.1% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty and 810,000 Guard and Reserve troops authorized in the FY17 NDAA. H.R. 1301 passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 371-48.
03.09.2017	U.S. Senators Steve Daines (R-MT) and Jon Tester (D-MT) and U.S. Representatives Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Collin Peterson (D-MN) today underscored the urgency in reversing the ruling of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Cottonwood Environmental Law Center v. U.S. Forest Service by introducing bipartisan bicameral legislation to do just that. The bill seeks to codify the position taken by the Obama administration that federal agencies are not required to consult with the Fish and Wildlife Service at a programmatic level when new critical habitat is designated or a new species is listed. “We need to take action immediately to reverse this disastrous court ruling that negatively impacts forest health, recreation, and watershed and habitat protection,” Daines stated. “This bipartisan legislation enjoys the support of diverse stakeholders and will protect Montana jobs and the commonsense collaborative forest management projects that have been harmed by this court decision.” “The Cottonwood decision could lead to endless red tape for folks working on timber projects, trail maintenance, and conservation efforts,” Tester said. “To restore certainty for Montana mills and folks who work in the woods, we need to eliminate these hurdles created by the court and get this bipartisan bill signed into law.” “Managing our forests is already challenging enough with increasing costs of wildfires,” said Simpson. “The last thing our land managers need is a duplicative process that prevents the Forest Service from pursuing important projects that improves forest health and increases access to our public lands. Congress must move swiftly to reverse the Cottonwood decision before it unnecessarily delays this seasons planned management activities.” “Ongoing working forest management projects should not be interrupted for bureaucratic reasons because it wastes time and precious dollars. As an avid sportsman, I look forward to this bill moving through Congress,” said Peterson. Currently there are conflicting circuit court interpretations in the Ninth (Cottonwood Environmental Law Center v. Forest Service) and Tenth Circuits (Forest Guardians v. Forsgren) on this matter of wide-ranging import, but in October 2016 the Supreme Court denied the Department of Justice’s petition to settle the discrepancy. According to the U.S. Forest Service, 80 vegetation management projects and hundreds of millions of board feet are at risk due to Cottonwood. Daines and Tester introduced comparable legislation in the 114th Congress. Former U.S. Representative Ryan Zinke introduced the House companion. The members’ bill is supported by: National Wildlife Federation Trout Unlimited Montana Wood Products Association Federal Forest Resource Coalition American Forest Resource Council Public Lands Council Montana Wildlife Federation Idaho Wildlife Federation Conservation Northwest Association of Northwest Steelheaders National Cattlemen’s Beef Association BlueRibbon Coalition Associated Logging Contractors – Idaho Douglas Timber Operators Intermountain Forest Association Dale Bosworth, Retired Chief of the United States Forest Service Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies Boone and Crockett Club Congressional Sportsmen’s Foundation Mule Deer Foundation National Wild Turkey Federation The Friends of Scotchman Peaks Wilderness Rocky Mountain Elk Foundation Ruffed Grouse Society Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership Coalition of Forested Counties, Montana Association of Counties Montana Stockgrowers Whitetails Unlimited Wild Sheep Foundation Wildlife Management Institute Associated Oregon Loggers Washington Contract Loggers California Forestry Association The text of the bill can be found HERE.
02.28.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after President Donald Trump’s first Address to Congress. “President Trump discussed a myriad of topics and I am looking forward to working with the Administration to implement policies that create jobs and fuel economic growth. Fundamental tax reform, entitlement reform and regulatory reform are essential to address our nation’s debt crisis once and for all. “As I talk to farmers, ranchers, and businesses throughout Idaho about the economic challenges they face, the common theme I hear is that tax and regulatory uncertainty from the last 8 years has forced them to hunker down and wait out the regulatory and bureaucratic storm rather than investing in their businesses and creating new jobs. If we truly want to get our budget deficit under control, these issues need to be addressed so our economy can grow beyond its current lackluster rate. “I am also extremely pleased that President Trump discussed immigration reform. The reality is Congress has not passed meaningful immigration reform. It is not an American or Republican value to split up families - it is not who we are. We need to solve this problem and focus on deporting violent criminals while passing comprehensive immigration reform that creates a legal workforce. “There is also a lot of concern and discussion about the Affordable Health Care Act, the simple truth is if we do nothing, Obamacare will fall of its own weight. Speaker Ryan is working extremely hard to present a replacement that will address our nation’s healthcare needs. The reality is we are not going to repeal Obamacare without a replacement that ensures Americans have access to care. “Finally, now more than ever, our country needs to put politics aside and find common ground for the greater good. I am willing, many of my colleagues are willing, and the American public needs to be willing as well to seek and pursue what unites us in order to move our country forward.”
02.28.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauds the Trump Administration’s executive order that directs the Army Corps of Engineers and EPA to review and reconsider an Obama Administration rule that would expand the definition of “waters of the United States.” Simpson chairs the appropriations subcommittee overseeing the budget for the US Army Corps of Engineers and sits on the subcommittee overseeing the budget for the EPA. In those roles, he has authored language passed by the House that would prevent the EPA and the US Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their regulatory jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. Implementation of the rule was already on hold as a federal appeals court was considering a legal challenge filed by states. “Under the Obama Administration, the EPA attempted to drastically expand the reach of EPA regulations to ground water, farm ponds, and ditches,” said Congressman Simpson. “Simply put, the rule was a shot across the bow to westerners because water is life. I applaud this Administration for taking the first step in rolling back this potentially burdensome regulation. The directive will give Idahoans the relief I have been advocating for since the rule was first proposed.” The controversial rule would expand the definition of “waters of the United States” by removing the word “navigable.” As a result, federal regulation under the Clean Water Act could apply to virtually all water, including ground water. States currently regulate non-navigable water.
02.23.2017	Washington, DC – The Idaho Congressional Delegation today announced its 2017 Service Academy Days across Idaho. Each Service Academy Day session offers students, parents, and counselors the opportunity to meet with liaisons, cadets, and midshipmen from each of the nation’s respective service academies and provides an opportunity for questions. Staff from Idaho’s four Congressional delegation offices will be on hand to answer questions about the application process for students who are seeking a nomination to our service academies. This year, the United States Military Academy at West Point; the U.S. Naval Academy; the U.S. Air Force Academy, and; the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy will all be represented at each event. While a Congressional nomination is not needed to attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, representatives will also be in attendance. Following are the details of each the Service Academy Day: Thursday, March 02, 2017 Central Idaho 6:00pm-8:00pm Lewiston High School 1114 9th Avenue Lewiston Thursday, March 09, 2017 North Idaho 6:00pm-8:00pm North Idaho College Edminster Student Union Building 495 College Drive Coeur d’Alene Saturday, April 01, 2017 South Idaho 1:00pm-3:00pm Gowen Field Auditorium B440 Boise NOTE: Picture ID Is required for entrance to the base. Saturday, April 15, 2017 East Idaho 1:00pm-3:00pm Idaho National Guard Armory 575 West 21st Street Idaho Falls Students who wish to learn more about applying for a military academy nomination but are unable to attend one of the Academy Day events are invited to contact any of the following Academy coordinators for information: Karen Roetter Sen. Mike Crapo’s Office Karen_Roetter@Crapo.senate.gov (208) 644-5490 Frances Hasenoehrl Sen. Jim Risch Frances_Hasenoehrl@Risch.senate.gov (208) 743-0792 Linda Culver Congressman Mike Simpson Linda.Culver@mail.house.gov (208) 734-7219 Judy Morbeck Congressman Raul Labrador Judy.Morbeck@mail.house.gov (208) 667-0127 ###
02.17.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 42 Members of Congress in cosponsoring H.R. 1121, the Pre-Existing Conditions Protection Act of 2017. The legislation was introduced on Thursday, by Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee Greg Walden (R-OR) and would ensure patients would not have benefits excluded from a plan due to a pre-existing condition and would not pay more based on health status. “It is clear that Idahoans want patient-centered reforms that put health care decisions into the hands of patients,” said Simpson. “That is why I cosponsored Chairman Walden’s bill to protect patients with pre-existing conditions. Preserving access and providing safeguards is a perfect example of a patient-centered reform that puts consumers in the driver’s seat.” The House Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing earlier this month that examined coverage for pre-existing conditions and other patient-centered reforms. Simpson has supported similar reforms during the 113th and 114th Congress as part of the American Healthcare Reform Act. “I have heard from many Idahoans who also support this common sense idea and I look forward to building on this proposal as a foundation for a stable health care market.”
02.16.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson invites high school students across the Second Congressional District to enter the 2017 High School Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition encourages Idaho's aspiring student artists to showcase their talents to the public, while recognizing their achievements alongside hundreds of other students and members of Congress from across the country. Earlier this month, school administrators and art instructors across the state received an official invitation, entry forms, and a list of rules and guidelines for the competition. Additional information can be found on Congressman Simpson’s website. The entry deadline for the competition is March 17, 2017. Artwork can be mailed or submitted at any of Congressman Simpson’s Idaho district offices in Boise, Twin Falls, or Idaho Falls. Students that enter the competition will have a chance to win a round trip flight to Washington D.C. to attend a special reception and see their artwork displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol Building. One grand-prize winner from Congressman Simpson’s district will be selected during a local reception in April, and will visit Washington D.C. in June. This year’s theme is titled, Many Faces, One Idaho, and encourages students to create a work of art about the 21st century challenges facing the state. Students are asked to create one piece of artwork based on their interpretation of this theme. “As one of the fastest growing states in the country, Idaho’s landscape is changing. Rural counties are giving way to urban cities, sparse populations are growing and diversifying, and economies are adapting to new technology and consumer preferences,” said Simpson. “With these changes, many residents are asking themselves what does it means to be an Idahoan today?” All students that enter the competition will be invited to a local reception at the Art Museum of Eastern Idaho in Idaho Falls in April. All submitted artwork will be showcased from April 8th through April 29th at the museum. Since the Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the competition.
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.J.Res. 40, a resolution disapproving an 11th hour Obama Administration rule requiring the Social Security Administration (SSA) to submit the names of certain beneficiaries to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, denying them of their Second Amendment rights. On December 19, 2016, the SSA published the final rule for the criteria to report certain Social Security recipients to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). This database is used to prevent the sale of firearms to individuals that have committed felonies, are drug addicts, fugitives and illegal immigrants. This rule restricts Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Income benefit recipients that have been deemed incompetent to handle their own affairs from owning firearms. “This is another example of the Obama Administration forcing policy that is not supported by the American people,” said Simpson. “The president couldn’t restrict gun rights through legislation so he had to use to rulemaking process.” For a beneficiary to appeal the firearm prohibition, they will have to provide to the SSA written statements from the past five years from the individual’s mental health provider, assessing their mental status; and must provide written character statements from others stating that the individual is not a danger to himself/herself or others. Aside from determining that a beneficiary cannot handle their own affairs, the Social Security Administration requires very limited information to transfer the beneficiaries’ information to the NICS. “Bureaucrats shouldn’t have the ability to take away someone’s constitutionally protected rights,” said Simpson. H.J.Res. 40 was adopted in the House of Representatives by a vote of 235-180.
01.30.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson the following statement on President Trump’s executive order on admissions to the United States: “The President is fulfilling his duty and promise to evaluate the screening process for those attempting to enter our country to ensure that these individuals are indeed safe and pose no threat to us. However, the Administration could have and should have disseminated the details and enforcement guidelines of the Executive Order in a more effective manner to minimize the unintended consequences of this change in policy. I am glad to see that the Administration has already taken steps to clarify these guidelines, and I hope all other errors in implementation of this order will be immediately addressed.”
01.13.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of the fiscal year 2017 budget resolution which was approved by the House of Representatives on Friday. This is the most significant Obamacare repeal legislation to pass the House since the law was enacted six years ago. Passage of the resolution unlocks a legislative mechanism known as “reconciliation” which provides Congress with the ability to repeal and ultimately replace Obamacare. “It is no secret that Obamacare has not lived up to the promises made six years ago,” said Congressman Simpson. “Obamacare has led to higher premiums, higher deductibles, and fewer choices – and this is before the most egregious tax hikes have gone into effect. I hear from Idahoans daily about the struggles associated with this law, and today’s legislation represents an important step in replacing Obamacare with real healthcare reform that puts decisions back into the hands of families, patients, and doctors.” The resolution was agreed to by a vote of 227-198 and was agreed to by the Senate earlier in the week.
01.06.2017	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted for two pieces of regulatory reform legislation to prevent regulatory overreach by the Obama administration during its final days and to return accountability and transparency to the federal regulatory process. The total cost of regulations imposed by federal agencies is estimated at $1.88 trillion annually. “Each year, federal agencies issue regulations without considering both their cost and benefits,” said Simpson. “Congress needs to reestablish its authority to oversee these rules in order to reduce the burden on all businesses and stimulate real economic growth.” As a first step, on Wednesday, Simpson voted in favor of H.R. 21, the Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017, which passed in the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 238-184. “Throughout his term in office, President Obama has disregarded the economic impact of his regulatory actions on the American people,” said Simpson. “We do not intend to allow this administration to continue imposing its onerous regulations without the consent of Congress in its final days. This legislation would provide Congress the flexibility to swiftly disapprove of any attempt to push forward these burdensome rules.” The Midnight Rules Relief Act of 2017 amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow for joint resolutions to disapprove of more than one regulation at a time if they are submitted to Congress during the last 60 legislative days of a presidential term. On Thursday, Simpson voted in favor of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2017, H.R. 26, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 237-187. Simpson was also a cosponsor of the REINS Act. “Congress has a critical oversight role to play to ensure that federal agencies are not overreaching their authority and impeding job growth,” said Simpson. “I have heard from countless Idahoans who are frustrated with the impact of costly regulations on their ability to do business.” The REINS Act amends the CRA to require Congress to approve every new major regulation proposed by federal agencies, including any regulation that has an impact of over $100 million per year. By returning to Congress its constitutional charge, the REINS Act further holds Congress accountable to the American people for laws imposed upon them. Both H.R. 21 and H.R. 26 now move to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
12.16.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Congressman Peter Welch (D-VT ) along with 30 other members of Congress, today urged the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to exercise its legal authority to investigate and take action against the manufacturers of products they falsely claim to be milk. Dairy farmers continue to be buffeted by extreme financial hardships. Since 2014, milk prices have plunged 40 percent. During that same time, there has been a surge in the mislabeling of imitation “milk” products, including beverages produced from almond, soy, and rice. In a bipartisan letter to the FDA, the coalition objected to the mislabeling of imitation plant-based products that do not have the unique attributes and nutritional value of milk, yet are marketed as milk. “While consumers are entitled to choose imitation products, it is misleading and illegal for manufacturers of these items to profit from the “milk” name,” said the members. “These products should be allowed on the market only when accurately labeled. We urge FDA to enforce this matter by requiring plant-based products to adopt a more appropriate name that does not include the word ‘milk’.” “While imitation may be the sincerest form of flattery; dairy imitators do not naturally provide the same level of nutrition to the people buying them as milk does,” President and CEO of International Dairy Foods Association Michael Dykes said. “Non-dairy beverages can mislead people into thinking that these products are comparable replacements for milk when in fact most are nutritionally inferior.” “You haven’t ‘got milk’ if it comes from a seed, nut or bean,” said Jim Mulhern, president and CEO of National Milk Producers Federation. “In the many years since we first raised concerns about the misbranding of these products, we’ve seen an explosion of imitators attaching the word ‘milk’ to everything from hemp to peas to algae. We don’t need new regulations on this issue, we just need FDA to enforce those that have been on the books for years.” ###
11.30.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised House passage of the 21st Century Cures Act which would fund vital biomedical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as important funding and policy provisions related to drug approval, mental health, and opioid abuse prevention. The 21st Century Cures Act passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 392-26. “Having previously supported many of the provisions in the bill we passed today, I was thrilled to see all of them incorporated into a package that will likely be signed into law,” said Simpson. “I have been a longtime supporter of NIH funding, but this legislation goes a step further to improve mental health treatments, opioid abuse, and the drug approval process which will safely and efficiently get lifesaving drugs to the patients that need them.” Specifically, the legislation would: Provide $4.8 billion over 10 years to NIH for many cutting edge research initiatives; Provide $500 million to the Food and Drug Administration over 10 years to advance new drug approval and medical devices for patients; Provide $1 billion over 2 years for grants to states to supplement opioid abuse prevention efforts; Provide offsets to ensure the legislation is paid for on a year to year basis. The bill also includes provisions to improve the nation’s mental health treatment system that would reauthorize important programs and grants to improve access to mental health treatment. Congressman Simpson was a cosponsor of this legislation and supported the bill when it passed the House in July. The legislation is expected to be considered by the Senate and signed by the President before the end of the 114th Congress.
09.28.2016	Idaho Congressman Simpson praised the strong passage of legislation to provide funding for veterans this week by a vote of 342-85. H.R. 5325 also continues funding for all federal government operations at current levels through December 9, 2016. H.R. 5325 includes the full year Military Construction and Veterans Affairs (VA) Appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives on May 19, 2016 with bipartisan support. “Funding provided by this legislation is necessary to keep the government operating and provides critical resources and certainty for our service members and veterans,” Simpson said. “This bill is needed to increase the speed, efficiency and effectiveness of VA services to veterans. It is the responsibility of Congress to ensure the VA receives the resources it needs to provide our veterans with the quality care they deserve.” The funding in H.R. 5325 will continue to house, train, and equip military personnel, provide housing and services to military families, and maintain base infrastructure. The CR also includes funding to address management problems and health care shortages in the national VA system.
09.28.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 94 colleagues in urging House leadership to secure full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. In a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Simpson and others urged the federal government to fulfill its responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal land by fully funding both programs. “Last year’s Omnibus spending bill was critical in preserving funding for PILT at levels that keep up with the needs of communities across Idaho,” said Simpson. “If Congress doesn’t act again this year, then counties are strapped with the uncertainty of how they will pay for essential services. I am committed to making sure that Congress does its job and honors the commitments to counties with large percentages of federal land.” Congressman Simpson also signed a letter to House leadership advocating for an extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) program. In 2015, Congress enacted a two-year extension of the SRS program which, similar to PILT, provides an alternative source of education funding for counties with a high percentage of national forests. This program also fulfills the federal government’s responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal lands. The bipartisan coalition of 52 Members of Congress wrote that, “the SRS program continues to be a critical safety net for forest counties…We stand ready to work with you in support of this important program.” Congressman Simpson has been a long-time advocate for PILT, ensuring full funding was provided for the program when he chaired the House Interior and Environment subcommittee. In July, he supported the fiscal year 2017 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill which passed the House of Representatives and included full funding for PILT. “While I would prefer a long-term solution to both PILT and SRS, I support immediate and necessary funding for both programs,” said Simpson. Both letters were delivered to House leadership in the last week.
08.15.2016	After two and a half months on the road, Congressman Mike Simpson will celebrate the success of the Idaho STEP Challenge by holding a team walk in Boise this evening. In partnership with the Saint Alphonsus Health System, Simpson will participate alongside dozens of Meet Me Monday athletes for a walk around downtown Boise. Beginning at 5:15 p.m., the free event will start at Bandanna Running and Walking, located at the intersection of 5th and Main Street. The event is open to the public. After logging 700 virtual miles, the Idaho STEP Challenge is off to a fast and fun start. With 300 individuals and 27 teams participating, the virtual walk across America has ventured from the nation’s capital, up the eastern seaboard, and into the Great Lakes region of the Midwest. Participants are currently trekking across the state of Indiana. “When I launched the Idaho STEP Challenge this summer, I wasn’t exactly sure how people would react to the event,” said Simpson. “It’s been thrilling to see so many people join with me on this walk across America, and I’m really looking forward to meeting some of the challenge participants in person during the Meet Me Monday event.” Meet Me Monday is a free weekly fitness walk and run event held every Monday year-round. Participants sign a participation waiver the first time they attend, and each time after that, they initial their name on a participant roster allowing them to earn athletic gear as they accumulate attendance points. On average, more than 80 people attend the weekly walk as a way to improve their health of mind, body and spirit; spend time with family and friends; and support the community through active engagement. “Meet Me Monday and Saint Alphonsus are thrilled to have Congressman Simpson join us for our walk today to highlight the Step Challenge, and the tremendous impact we can have on our personal health by just taking a walk each day and tracking our steps,” said Corey Surber, Director of Advocacy at Saint Alphonsus. “We applaud Congressman Simpson for his leadership in promoting physical activity, and using social support and encouragement to keep people engaged.” Since 2014, Simpson has lost more than 70 pounds using a wearable activity tracker to monitor and record his daily steps. Based on his success, he created the non-partisan, non-political Idaho STEP Challenge to promote health and fitness, and prevent obesity related diseases. Similar to a virtual race, the challenge allows participants to record their individual miles using their own activity tracker or pedometer and report their progress on Simpson’s website. The 3,000 mile virtual route weaves through several iconic American cities, national parks, and spacious heartlands, and is expected to end on the steps of the Idaho State Capitol Building next summer.
07.15.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017 which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 231-196. Included in the legislation are policies important to western states such as full funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), a vital program in the west that ensures communities are adequately compensated for the lack of tax revenue due to the presence of federal land. “Every county in Idaho depends on the federal government meeting its obligations through Payments in Lieu of Taxes,” said Simpson. “PILT is essentially the government’s property tax on the federal land it owns, and it needs to be paid fully and on time. I’m pleased that full funding was included in this bill, and I am also committed to fulfilling the promises made to public lands counties in the long-term and will continue working to provide permanent certainty for Idaho’s counties.” The Interior bill also includes a number of provisions championed by Simpson that benefit Idaho, including: • Language that prevents a future listing of the sage-grouse as an endangered species while prohibiting any changes to resource management plans that are inconsistent with state management plans. The language also prohibits the withdrawal of mineral rights in sage-grouse focal areas; • Full funding for wildfire suppression at the ten-year average of $3.9 billion for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service; • A $78.5 million funding increase for the National Park Service targeted at park operations and maintenance to help reduce the maintenance backlog and will address other priorities related to the Park Service’s centennial anniversary; • More than $400 million in cuts to the EPA below the President’s budget request for fiscal year 2017. EPA funding has been reduced by $2.4 billion, or roughly 23 percent, since Republicans regained control of the House in 2010; • Language that prohibits the EPA from implementing new greenhouse gas regulations for new and existing power plants, and the elimination of funding for greenhouse gas “New Source Performance Standards; • Language preventing the EPA from dramatically expanding its jurisdiction over state and local water under the Clean Water Act by changing the definition of “navigable waters”; • Language that directs the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue two final rules removing recovered wolves in Wyoming and in the Western Great Lakes from the endangered species list; • Language that prohibits a ban on recreational shooting and hunting on federal and public lands; • Language that prohibits the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) from implementing their proposed “Planning 2.0” regulation until the agency provides additional time for public comment; • Language that encourages the BLM to work with the State of Idaho on future aquifer recharge projects. “When you look at the critical funding and key provisions in this bill, you immediately recognize why this legislation is so important to Idaho,” said Congressman Simpson. “Whether it is blocking the EPA’s overreaching rule that seeks to drastically expand their jurisdiction over state waters or providing the Forest Service with the resources it needs to fight wildfires in Idaho and across the west, I am so pleased that Members of Congress advanced the Interior Appropriations bill.” The House Interior Appropriations bill is the fifth appropriations bill passed by the House of Representatives for fiscal year 2017.
07.01.2016	“Each year we have an opportunity to celebrate the 4th of July and remind ourselves of the sacrifices made on our behalf to secure our freedom and independence. American history is filled with heroic and selfless acts made by men and women who have fought to defend our values and way of life. Today we continue to witness bravery from those who selflessly serve and protect our country. Giving them the proper tools and resources to fulfill their mission has always been a top priority of mine. Equally important, we must also keep our promises to veterans. Recent passage of the FY17 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill helps accomplish this in several ways. “First, we were able to secure funding that maintains military base infrastructure. This funding includes money for housing, training, and equipping military personnel, in addition to other services for military families. Projects funded under this bill include new construction as well as renovations to dated military bases within the U.S. and around the world. This allows us to keep our military bases safe and modernized to address new unique challenges. “In addition to meeting the infrastructure needs of our troops, we were able to add important funding for our veterans. This bill provides the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) with added resources that will be applied towards clearing out the national backlog of disability benefits claims. With an increase in funds, the VA is now in a position to hire 242 new staff members who will work towards addressing issues related to disability benefits claims. “I am pleased to see that this legislation directs funds toward important medical services, allowing the VA to treat an estimated seven million patients this coming fiscal year. This includes added funding in important areas such as mental health care services and suicide prevention efforts. “The FY17 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill also addresses mandatory funding requirements such as veteran disability compensation programs, education benefits that help over one million of our veterans, and also vocational rehabilitation and employment training. These are all important services that give our returning military members the tools and resources they need to successfully enter the civilian workforce. “Overall this appropriations bill allows us to meet important needs and support our troops and veterans. We owe it to all of those who have sacrificed for our country, to keep our promises to those who are currently serving as well as our veterans. It is my hope that this 4th of July we can take a moment to reflect on the bravery and sacrifice of our forbearers, and look forward with continuing support to those who make those same selfless acts of service today.”
06.16.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the first Mile Tracker Board for the Idaho STEP Challenge where he is virtually walking from Washington, D.C. Currently Simpson’s virtual location en route is 98 miles and is just outside of Westminster, MD. Westminster is home to the Bear Branch Nature Center and the Hashawha Environmental Center that feature several interactive exhibits on local plants and animals, a youth environmental education center, and more than five miles of multi-use hiking and running trails spread across 320 acres. The Idaho STEP Challenge was created by Simpson as a way to encourage residents to get fit and healthy using data captured on a wearable activity tracker or pedometer. Individuals wishing to participate can still register on Simpson’s website, and then keep pace with the Congressman while he walks across America. The challenge is expected to last approximately 14 months, and cover nearly 3,000 miles. Simpson has lost nearly 70 pounds using an activity tracker to monitor his daily steps. “I am thrilled so many people have agreed to join the Idaho STEP Challenge,” said Simpson. “I have been approached by dozens of individuals who have shared their stories with me and I can’t wait to see how many of us complete this goal.” Similar to a virtual race, residents can participate using their own activity tracker or pedometer to track the steps they accumulate through regular fitness or exercise routines. Each participant will report their weekly progress on Simpson’s website. The route begins at the U.S. Capitol Building, and takes participants through several iconic American cities, national parks, and spacious heartlands, eventually ending on the steps of the Idaho State Capital Building. So far, more than 380 people have signed up with over 200 reporting their total miles walked since June 1st. Frequent challenge updates, fun facts about the towns and cities along the route, links to healthy recipes, tips on getting in your weekly steps, and other information will be posted to Simpson’s Facebook and Twitter feeds, and labeled with a #hikewithMike hashtag. Constituents that complete the challenge will be invited to meet Simpson in Boise, Idaho next year for a walk and healthy reception. Participants will also have the opportunity to purchase a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol Building in recognition of their achievement. The Idaho STEP Challenge is a non-partisan, non-political interactive event open to the public.
06.16.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded passage of H.R. 5293, the Fiscal Year (FY) 17 Defense Appropriations bill. This legislation funds the Department of Defense, and fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense. “I am very pleased this bill recognizes the importance and invaluable contribution of the A-10 to the armed forces,” said Simpson. “The airmen from the Idaho Air National Guard are using the unique capabilities of the A-10 Thunderbolt II in close air support missions in the fight against ISIS in Syria. It is essential we continue support our men and women in combat and this bill provides for the necessary tools to accomplish their mission at home and abroad.” Crucially, the bill provides funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II, which currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise, and is essential to the mission there. The House-passed FY17 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) contained language preventing the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II. The bill also provides for a 2.1% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty and 830,000 Guard and Reserve troops. H.R. 5293 passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote of 282-138.
06.15.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY17 during the House Appropriations Committee consideration. Included in the legislation are policies important to western states and critical funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), a vital program in the west that ensures communities are adequately compensated for the lack of tax revenue due to the presence of federal land. “Every county in Idaho depends on the federal government meeting its obligations through Payments in Lieu of Taxes,” said Simpson. “PILT is essentially the government’s property tax on the federal land it owns, and it needs to be paid fully and on time. I’m pleased that full funding was included in this bill, and I am also committed to fulfilling the promises made to public lands counties in the long-term and will continue working to provide permanent certainty for Idaho’s counties.” Simpson, who is vice-chair of the subcommittee, also supported language that would prevent a future listing of the sage-grouse while prohibiting any changes to resource management plans that are inconsistent with state management plans. The language also prohibits the withdrawal of mineral rights in sage-grouse focal areas. “The decision not to list the sage-grouse as an endangered species last September was a victory for western states,” said Simpson. “However, I remain concerned about the impacts of the BLM’s resource management plans and the consequences they will have on Idaho. This language ensures that state voices are a part of sage-grouse management and conservation efforts.” The Interior bill also includes a number of provisions championed by Simpson that benefit Idaho, including: Full funding for wildfire suppression at the ten-year average of $3.9 billion for the Department of Interior and the Forest Service; Language preventing the EPA from dramatically expanding its jurisdiction over state and local water under the Clean Water Act by changing the definition of “navigable waters”; Language that directs the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue two final rules removing recovered wolves in Wyoming and in the Western Great Lakes from the endangered species list; Language prohibiting the EPA from moving forward with economically harmful proposals to regulate greenhouse gases from stationary sources; Language that prohibits a ban on recreational shooting and hunting on federal and public lands. Congressman Simpson also offered an amendment that prohibits the Bureau of Land Management from implementing their proposed “Planning 2.0” regulation until the agency provides additional time for public comment. The amendment was agreed to by a voice vote. You can view Congressman Simpson speaking on the amendment here. The bill, which passed by a vote of 31-18, now heads to the floor for further consideration.
06.10.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted in favor of two resolutions which voice the House of Representatives disapproval for two of President Obama’s proposed energy initiatives. The first, H.Con.Res. 89, would express the sense of Congress that a carbon tax would be detrimental to the United States economy. The second, H.Con.Res. 112, would express the sense of Congress opposing the President’s proposed $10 tax on every barrel of oil. Both passed the House on Friday. “The President continues to double down on regulations and tax hikes that would be harmful to our economy,” said Simpson. “Whether it is the unrealistic cap and trade system or raising taxes on energy sources Americans use every day, these policies drive up costs in nearly every aspect of our lives. The resolutions considered today send a message to the President that these policies are bad for our economy.” The President’s fiscal year 2017 budget request proposed a $10.25 tax increase on every barrel of oil. Public reports estimate that consumers could see a 25 cent increase per gallon of gasoline if this proposal were enacted. “Instead of the President’s initiatives, I support using technology, incentives, and innovation to move our economy to sustainable, independent energy sources. That means we need to look at an all of the above energy strategy and approach it in a common sense, thoughtful way. Unfortunately, burdensome regulations and tax hikes don’t accomplish that.” H.Con.Res. 89 and H.Con.Res. 112 both passed by bipartisan votes of 237-163 and 253-144. Earlier this week, the House also voted on legislation that responds to states and local agencies concerned with implementing ozone standards. Congressman Simpson supported passage of H.R. 4775, the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016, which would set reasonable implementation dates for the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) ozone standards. Under current EPA standards, states would be forced to comply with two separate standards which would leave 33 states and 241 counties in violation of the standards. H.R. 4775 gives states until 2025 to comply. The bill passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 234-177.
06.01.2016	Idaho STEP Challenge In 2014, Congressman Mike Simpson started tracking his steps to achieve a series of personal weight loss goals. Since then, he has lost 68 pounds. Now, in an effort to advocate healthy lifestyles through his work in the House of Representatives, Congressman Simpson is challenging Idaho residents to a STEP Challenge. Beginning on June 1, 2016, Congressman Simpson will measure and record the number of miles he walks each week using his activity tracker. During the next calendar year, he will attempt to walk the equivalent mileage of a trip from the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington D.C. to the Idaho Capital Building in Boise, Idaho. The route is estimated at 2,963 miles, including several stops through scenic and historic parts of America. The final few miles of the route will culminate with a fun run/walk beginning in on the Idaho Capital steps and ending in Julia Davis Park. To help inspire and engage others to stay fit and healthy, Idaho residents can join the challenge by using their activity tracker to measure, record, and report their weekly miles. Residents interested in participating can sign up to receive updates on Congressman Simpson's progress, learn fun facts about the cities along the route, and join the step challenge from Washington, D.C. to Boise. Challenge rules and additional details will be provided to everyone that registers. Sign Up for Idaho Step Challenge Updates Enter Your Miles for the D.C. to Boise Step Challenge (Individuals) Enter Your Miles for the D.C to Boise Step Challenge (Team) Mile Tracker Board (Coming Soon!) Rules Related Materials 68 pounds lighter, Idaho Rep. Simpson wants other to step it up
05.23.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has announced he will virtually walk from Washington D.C. to Boise during the next year as part of the Idaho STEP Challenge. Since 2014, Simpson has lost nearly 70 pounds using an activity tracker to monitor his daily steps. Simpson recently cosponsored H.R. 1218, the Personal Health Investment Today Act (PHIT Act) which aims to promote health and prevent obesity related diseases by allowing physical activity expenses to be reimbursed using pre-tax dollars. The Idaho STEP Challenge was created by Simpson as a way to encourage residents to get fit and healthy using data captured on a wearable activity tracker or pedometer. Individuals wishing to participate will register on Simpson’s website, and then keep pace with the Congressman as he walks across America starting on June 1. “Being more active is not only good for you and your family, it is good for our country,” said Simpson. “Health care costs are one of the largest expenses our nation faces and if we all work on increased awareness about our own health habits, we can reduce these expenses significantly while enjoying the many benefits of being healthier. I am very excited to begin the Idaho STEP Challenge and I hope this fun event can encourage Idahoans and others to take a personal interest in their fitness and health.” Similar to a virtual race, residents can participate using their own activity tracker or pedometer to track the steps they accumulate through regular fitness or exercise routines. Each participant will report their weekly progress on Simpson’s website. The route begins at the U.S. Capitol Building, and takes participants through several iconic American cities, national parks, and spacious heartlands, eventually ending on the steps of the Idaho State Capital Building. The challenge is expected to last approximately 14 months, and cover nearly 3,000 miles. Frequent challenge updates, fun facts about the towns and cities along the route, links to healthy recipes, tips on getting in your weekly steps, and other information will be posted to Simpson’s Facebook and Twitter feeds, and labeled with a #hikewithMike hashtag. Constituents that complete the challenge will be invited to meet Simpson in Boise, Idaho next year for a walk and healthy reception. Participants will also have the opportunity to purchase a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol Building in recognition of their achievement. The Idaho STEP Challenge is a non-partisan, non-political interactive event open to the public.
05.19.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson last night supported passage of H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. This legislation fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense by funding the Department of Defense. “I am very pleased to see the NDAA pass, and particularly for the recognition of the A-10’s importance in the bill and its unique and invaluable contributions to the armed forces,” said Simpson. “The fight against ISIS has once again shown the value of the A-10 in close air support missions and this bill ensures they remain available as a tool for our brave men and women in combat. There will be a time when they will need to be replaced. However, until an appropriate replacement can be identified, it continues to merit our support.” The FY17 NDAA contains language preventing the retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II, which currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise. Additionally, it prohibits the Secretary of the Air Force from reducing A-10 squadrons until results from comparative testing and evaluation between the capabilities of the F-35 and A-10 are submitted to Congress. The bill also provides for a 2.1% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty and 830,000 Guard and Reserve troops. H.R. 4909 passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 277-147.
05.19.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of the fiscal year 2017 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. This bill provides funding to maintain military base infrastructure and to house, train, and equip military personnel, as well as other services for military families. It also funds the medical care and benefits administered by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “This legislation provides an increase in funding for medical care and benefits administered by the VA to address health care shortages and improve services for veterans,” Simpson said. “Quality and timely care for veterans and providing the rightly earned benefits for the brave men and women that defend our nation are top concerns for me and my constituents. It’s our responsibility in Congress to fulfill our commitment to our veterans, our service members and their families.” The FY17 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill (H.R.4974) passed the House of Representatives on a bipartisan vote of 295-129.
05.13.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement after a federal judge ruled that the Obama administration unlawfully paid billions to Obamacare health insurers without congressional approval. “Yesterday’s ruling confirms what many American’s already know, the President is acting unilaterally without consulting Congress,” said Congressman Simpson. “The President didn’t confer with Republicans when Obamacare passed on party line votes, and he continues to ignore Congress as a collective body by spending money without appropriations from the legislative branch. This ruling is important to protecting the balance of powers that are defined in the Constitution.” House Republicans approved a resolution in the 113th Congress that authorized the House to bring litigation against the Administration for unilateral actions under Obamacare. In September, a federal judge ruled that the House has the right to pursue legal action against the Administration over billions of dollars in subsidies that were never approved by Congress in an effort to preserve its constitutional authority to control federal spending.
05.12.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 2896, the Taking Account of Institutions with Low Operation Risk Act of 2015. The TAILOR Act would provide smaller community banks and credit unions with regulatory relief. H.R. 2896 requires federal financial regulatory agencies to consider the risk profile and business models of financial institutions when taking regulatory action; and requires agencies to tailor regulations accordingly as appropriate and necessary. Currently, small traditional banks and credit unions are subject to one-size-fits-all compliance regulations intended for much larger financial institutions. “Idaho’s banks and credit unions provide vital, personalized service in our communities and should not be impeded by disproportionate and undue regulation.” Simpson said. “It’s critical that federal regulators focus the majority of their oversight efforts on the institutions with the highest risk instead of burdening our hometown banks with excessive regulation.” H.R. 2896 is under consideration by the House Financial Services Committee.
05.02.2016	Idaho Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 4773, the Protecting Workplace Advancement and Opportunity Act, which blocks a U.S. Department of Labor rule to significantly increase the salary threshold for exemption from federal overtime pay requirements for managerial, professional or administrative positions. Currently under the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), salaried employees who earn $23,660 or less are eligible for overtime pay if they work more than 40 hours per week. In its final rule, the U.S. Department of Labor rule is expected to increase the income eligibility threshold to workers who make less than $47,000 a year. “I am not necessarily opposed to increasing the salary threshold for exempt positions, but I am concerned that a sudden 99% increase will be too burdensome for nonprofits, academic institutions, and small businesses in Idaho” Simpson said. “The rule could create unintended consequences such as reduced hours and benefits for employees as businesses would be required to immediately absorb new labor costs. Furthermore, this federal salary threshold does not take into account regional differences in wages and cost of living, which could put Idaho businesses at a disadvantage.” H.R. 4773 would block the current proposed regulation from taking effect and require the U.S. Department of Labor to perform further analysis of the impact that the changes to overtime regulations will have on small businesses, nonprofits, and institutes of higher education; as well as the impact on employment and employee benefit structures for exempt and nonexempt employees, before proceeding with its rule. H.R. 4773 is under consideration by the House Committee on Education and the Workforce.
04.20.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a bipartisan group of Members of Congress in sending a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) top official expressing extreme concerns with the use of federal funding for advocacy and lobbying efforts. EPA funds were recently linked to an advocacy project in Washington State. “As an Idahoan I fully expect to have differences with the EPA regarding policy,” said Simpson. “But one thing that we should always agree on is the law and these advocacy campaigns clearly violate appropriate uses of federal resources. I will continue to use my seat in Congress to rein in the EPA whether it is overreaching regulations, or in this case improper use of taxpayer funds.” Federal law prohibits appropriations for the use of publicity or propaganda purposes not approved by Congress. This new revelation comes on the heels of a December 2015 Government Accountability Office (GAO) report that found EPA committed violations on advocacy campaigns supporting the agencies Waters of the United States regulation. The cosigners of the letter also signaled their support for Senators Jim Inhofe and Pat Robert’s efforts requesting an EPA Office of Inspector General Report official audit and investigation into advocacy efforts and grant management. The full letter can be viewed here.
04.19.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Fiscal Year 2017 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill reverses proposed cuts to Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which passed the bill through the full House Appropriations Committee today, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The FY17 Energy and Water bill provides strong funding for the Office of Nuclear Energy and the essential work at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Simpson. “Every day, world renowned researchers at the INL work to promote and ensure our nation’s energy security, and this bill will provide them with the resources they need to continue their cutting edge work. With increasing international competition, it is critical that the U.S. remain at the forefront of nuclear research and development, and I am proud that this bill will help maintain that leadership.” The FY 2017 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $1.01 billion, an increase of $25.4 million above fiscal year 2016 and $17.7 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $1.01 billion allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $240 million – a $19.5 million increase over last year and the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $129.3 million – an increase of $3.1 million over fiscal year 2016. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $121.4 million – an increase of $9.8 million above fiscal year 2016 and $31.9 million above the President’s request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $96.6 million. This fully funds NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $140 million – an increase of $31.2 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $140 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $62.1 million, $2 million above fiscal year 2016; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $61.1 million, $23.8 million below fiscal year 2016. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $75.1 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $12 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $390 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level is $20 million above the President’s request and will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $4 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $37.4 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “From water projects across the nation to critical energy research and national security, the Energy and Water bill has a wide reach,” Chairman Simpson said. “This is a responsible bill that supports U.S. national security, safety, and economic competitiveness by balancing critical priorities within tight budget caps,” said Chairman Simpson. “It prioritizes the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also making strategic investments in infrastructure projects and energy research that will help grow the U.S. economy.” The bill is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. The complete Committee Report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-114-hr-fy2017-energywater.pdf
03.17.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.Res. 639, authorizing an amicus brief—also known as a “friend of the court” brief—to be filed on behalf of the House Representatives in the Supreme Court. This brief supports the 26 states that filed legal action against President Obama for his infringement on Article I authority over immigration policy in the case, U.S. v. Texas. It is the first time the House has taken an official position and filed an amicus brief on a Supreme Court case. H.Res. 639 was adopted in the House today by a vote of 234-186. “The President’s actions are contrary to the way the American people expect the President and Congress to interact,” said Simpson. “I am deeply concerned by the President’s continued overreach and disregard of Congress’ role in making laws.” Simpson has long supported legislation to block unilateral actions by the Executive branch and to restore power to the appropriate branches of government. Simpson previously filed in the 5th Circuit Court an amicus brief in support of the states’ suit against the President. The primary argument of the brief involves an Article I v. Article II controversy regarding the discretion of the executive branch to make laws without authority. “With the Supreme Court considering a fundamental case on the role of the executive and legislative branches in making laws, it is imperative that we use all tools at our disposal to stop the President’s overreach,” said Simpson. “We have found ourselves in this situation far too often in the last seven years, so I do hope that the Supreme Court will send a clear message to the Administration that will restore the balance of powers dictated by the Constitution.” In November, the 5th Circuit Court ruled against the Administration, preventing the 2014 executive action from being implemented. The Administration subsequently appealed their case to the Supreme Court.
03.03.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today examined the President’s FY17 budget proposal during a House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Neil Kornze. Simpson, who is the vice-chair of the subcommittee, took the opportunity to question Kornze on important issues facing Idaho. During the hearing Congressman Simpson raised the issue of the Eastern Snake Plain Aquifer and the role BLM can play in helping the State of Idaho stabilize the ground water level in the aquifer. Congressman Simpson commented, “The State of Idaho would like to recharge the (Eastern Snake Plain) aquifer since the water level is going down substantially, and there are periods of time when we have excess water that we just flush down the river. It would be nice to recharge that aquifer and I would encourage your office to work with the State of Idaho and our office in developing a plan that might work.” Simpson also commented on sage grouse management plans. After the hearing, Simpson said, “While it is a success the sage grouse was not listed under the Endangered Species Act, it is important to remember that the State of Idaho has concerns with the management plans. BLM needs to keep their door open to the state regarding the future of the management plans to ensure that their voices are heard in a truly collaborative process.” The BLM hearing was one of 26 hearings held by House Appropriations Committee this week on the President’s budget request.
03.03.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson offered the following statement regarding today’s announcement by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that the Greater Yellowstone Area Grizzly Bear is fully recovered and no longer warrants listing under the Endangered Species Act: “For more than three decades, local, state, and federal partners have worked together to revive the population of the Greater Yellowstone Area Grizzly Bear,” said Simpson. “I am pleased the Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed delisting the bear and returning management to state agencies. Today, the best scientific evidence proves the bear’s habitat and population have fully recovered and no longer warrant protection under the Endangered Species Act. While this is a positive development, I will thoroughly review the agency’s full proposal and work with state and local partners to learn more about how the decision will impact Idaho.”
03.03.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.R. 4557, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 238-163. The bill would extend the compliance dates pending the completion of judicial review for the Brick Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) air quality rule issued by EPA that sets strict standards for brick industry emissions. “Like many EPA regulations, the Brick MACT rule is being challenged in the courts,” said Simpson. “At this point it is unfortunate – but not surprising – that the EPA is overreaching into yet another sector of our economy. In Idaho we know all too well about the EPA’s attempts to reach into our State regulated waters.” In 2003, EPA promulgated standards for the brick industry that were later struck down by a federal court. However, brick manufacturers were already forced to comply with the standards before the legal status of the rule had been determined. The current rule was finalized last September and is being challenged in federal court. “H.R. 4557 is common sense legislation that simply allows for the judicial vetting of a regulation before brick manufacturers are forced to comply with burdensome standards,” said Simpson. “When you look at the thousands of jobs and millions of dollars in economic impacts, the stakes are just too high to move forward without an appropriate review of the rule.” The Brick MACT standards proposed by EPA are estimated to cost industry between $25-100 million per year to comply with the rule, and would put at risk 7,000 jobs the industry supports.
02.26.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation protecting Americans’ access to hunting, fishing and shooting on public lands. H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, would ensure federal land managers continue to allow reliable access to public lands and protect Second Amendment rights. H.R. 2406 passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 242-161. “In Idaho, we love to hunt, fish, and enjoy other forms of recreation on our public lands - it is why we live here,” said Simpson. “Today’s legislation is extremely important to protecting that access and ensures that hunters and anglers continue to enjoy traditional recreational activities, even as land management plans change.” Also included in the bill is a provision that allows for firearms to be legally carried on land managed by the Army Corps of Engineers. Congressman Simpson has championed this issue in the past, authoring language in his Energy & Water appropriations bill that would also allow possession of firearms on Corp of Engineers lands. H.R. 2406 also exempts lead ammo and tackle from Environmental Protection Agency regulations and provides the right to transport crossbows on National Park Service lands. The SHARE act was endorsed by the National Rifle Association (NRA), the National Sports Shooting Foundation (NSSF), and a diverse group of sportsmen’s organizations.
02.25.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s H.R. 812, the Indian Trust Asset Reform Act, passed by voice vote in the House of Representatives. The bill would modernize the federal government’s role in managing Indian trust property by allowing tribes to manage their own assets through negotiated demonstration projects with the Department of Interior. “This legislation is a step forward for tribes in how they manage their assets,” said Simpson. “Instead of the complicated and inconsistent bureaucratic process tribes currently go through, H.R. 812 aims to streamline this practice to provide tribes with the necessary tools to promote economic development.” H.R. 812 is just one aspect in a larger conversation about how tribes can improve the management of their assets and reflects the values of many Pacific Northwest tribes who were consulted in crafting the legislation. The bill also has the support of the National Congress of American Indians, the Affiliated Tribes of Northwest Indians, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, and a bipartisan list of cosponsors. “I am thankful to the tribes who lent their expertise to H.R. 812, as well as to the Natural Resources Committee who held several hearings on my bill. I am pleased the House could act in a bipartisan fashion to pass a bill that helps Indian country and promotes economic growth.” The Congressional Budget Office found that H.R. 812 would not affect the federal government’s overall costs.
02.23.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson signed an amicus curiae, or “friend of the court” brief in support of 27 states that challenged the Environmental Protection Agency’s rule on existing power plants. The Clean Power Plant rule was recently stayed by the U.S. Supreme Court and is awaiting further consideration by the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the District of Columbia. “I am extremely disappointed, but sadly not surprised that the President is using his final months in office to promote costly regulations,” said Simpson. “The Obama Administration’s rule on existing power plants impose a regulatory structure on our nation’s energy sector that is simply not viable, and even worse, it forces the American people to foot the bill.” Simpson has long opposed efforts to impose unworkable regulations on the energy sector that would do little to improve climate conditions but would impose prohibitive costs to consumers. In December, Congressman Simpson supported legislation that would employ the Congressional Review Act to ensure that the rule on existing power plant regulations would not go into effect. This bill passed the House and Senate but was vetoed by President Obama. Congressman Simpson has also supported language in appropriations bills that would block the EPA from implementing these regulations on new and existing power plants. The primary argument of the brief involves an Article I v. Article II controversy regarding the discretion of the executive branch to make rules without authority. “With an executive branch that has shown little regard for the coequal legislative branch, Congress must do everything within its authority to protect the American people from regulations that will impact their finances to this degree,” said Simpson. “The amicus brief filed today is a message to President Obama that regulations that reach this far into the lives of Americans will be challenged.”
02.10.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to temporarily block one of the EPA’s rules regulating carbon dioxide emissions from existing power plants. “The Obama Administration’s rules impose a regulatory structure on our nation’s energy sector that is simply not viable, and even worse, it forces the American people to foot the bill,” said Simpson. “That is why I am pleased that the Supreme Court has put a hold on this rule before it has a chance to do irreparable harm to our economy. Republicans will continue to examine EPA’s overzealous rules through the legislative process so we protect American energy consumers from these burdensome costs and increased energy bills.” Simpson has long opposed efforts to impose unworkable regulations on the energy sector that would do little to improve climate conditions but would impose prohibitive costs to consumers. In December, Congressman Simpson supported legislation that would employ the Congressional Review Act to ensure that the rule on existing power plant regulations would not go into effect. This bill passed the House and Senate but was vetoed by President Obama. Congressman Simpson has also supported language in appropriations bills that would block the EPA from implementing these regulations on new and existing power plants.
02.04.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women have been officially appointed to the United States service academies. Simpson nominated the students in December 2015 in order to be accepted to the Class of 2020. The Idaho Congressional Delegation will congratulate and meet the candidates at a reception to be held at Gowen Field on Mon., Feb. 15 at 10:00 a.m. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the service academies,” said Simpson. “I am always impressed by the quality and character of our youth in Idaho. Each person is a fine example of what our state has to offer. They are bright and articulate and I’m proud of these exceptional students who were selected to serve.” Nominations were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extracurricular activities. Students from Idaho were appointed to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, N.Y.; U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y., or the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Md. Treasure Valley Area Students: Air Force Academy Dirk Lamb (Boise) Rob and Trisha Lamb, Timberline High School Megan Marshall (Boise) Daniel and Joleen Marshall, Timberline High School Mark Jerome (Boise) David and Julie Jerome, Borah High School Abigail Elliot (Boise) Jerry and Nicole Elliott, Bishop Kelly High School Lillian Boggan (Boise) Teresa Boggan, Capital High School Adrianna Lutu (Boise) Harvey and Susan Lutu, Meridian High School Military Academy George Walter (Boise) George Walter and Rosa Totorica, Boise High School Garrett Calhoun (Boise) Gary and Melissa Calhoun, Timberline High School Mark Jerome (Boise) David and Julie Jerome, Borah High School Olivia Konecni (Boise) Tony and Annette Konecni, Capital High School Naval Academy Travis Grant (Boise) Michael and Jean Grant, Timberline High School Alysia Santa Cruz-Cernick (Boise) Douglas Cernick and Maria Santa Cruz-Cernick, Capital High School Catherine Carignan (Boise) Robert and Laurel Carignan, Riverstone International School Kylar Honan (Boise) Lars and Margaret Honan, Eagle High School Thomas Burchfield (Boise) Andrew and Stacy Burchfield, Timberline High School Merchant Marine Academy Olivia Konecni (Boise) Tony and Annette Konecni, Capital High School Devon Lloyd (Meridian) Jason and Brenda Lloyd, North Star Charter HS/Meridian Technical Charter High School Mountain Home Students: Air Force Academy Kiana Brantley (Mountain Home) Porsha Brantley, Sierra High School Magic Valley Area Students: Air Force Academy Dustin Ault (Twin Falls) Daniel and Heather Ault, Canyon Ridge High School Ellison Huber (Jerome) James and Kimberley Huber, Bruton High School Matthew McDonald (Kimberly) Bradley and Krista McDonald, Air Academy High School Military Academy Rayelynn Brackett (Twin Falls) Marc and Kristin Brackett, Canyon Ridge High School/Idaho Virtual Academy Chase Prairie (Jerome) Gordon and Shannon Prairie, James I. O’Neill High School Ellison Huber (Jerome) James and Kimberley Huber, Jerome High School Naval Academy Rayelynn Brackett (Twin Falls) Marc and Kristin Brackett, Canyon Ridge High School/Idaho Virtual Academy Trey Widmier (Rupert) Nile and Michele Widmier, Minico High School Merchant Marine Academy Rayelynn Brackett (Twin Falls) Marc and Kristin Brackett, Canyon Ridge High School/Idaho Virtual Academy Chubbuck/Rockland/Blackfoot Area Students: Military Academy Gregory Drake (Blackfoot) Steven and Merri Ann Drake, Blackfoot High School Justin Robinson (Rockland) David and Wanda Robinson, Rockland High School Naval Academy Jacob Huston (Chubbuck) Michael and Beth Huston, Century High School Merchant Marine Academy Gregory Drake (Blackfoot) Steven and Merri Ann Drake, Blackfoot High School Idaho Falls/St. Anthony Area Students: Military Academy Alex Pope (St. Anthony) Ryon and Liz Pope, South Fremont High School Naval Academy Charlee Biecker (Idaho Falls) Rick Bieker and Andrea Skinner, Compass Academy High School Merchant Marine Academy Charlee Biecker (Idaho Falls) Rick Bieker and Andrea Skinner, Compass Academy High School Congressman Simpson is currently accepting applications for students who seek nomination for the Class of 2021. Information about eligibility and answers to other common questions can be found under the student section on Simpson’s website: simpson.house.gov. The application is also online.
02.04.2016	Idaho Congressman Simpson supported H.R. 766, the Financial Institution Customer Protection Act, to curtail the Obama Administration’s regulatory enforcement program known as “Operation Choke Point.” “Operation Choke Point” is a Department of Justice (DOJ) initiative in which federal banking regulators investigate banks’ business with merchants deemed to be at high risk for fraud and money laundering and “choke off” businesses alleged to have committed fraud from access to financial services. In recent years, the Obama Administration has misused this authority by discouraging banks and credit unions from providing banking services to entire categories of lawful businesses and industries, such as the gun and ammunition industry, simply because they were politically disfavored by the Administration. “Federal regulators should not pressure banks to terminate their business with legal merchants by targeting industries that the Obama Administration deems objectionable, despite the fact that they are legal businesses,” said Simpson. “With business owners’ livelihoods at stake, such actions must be based on actual risk and not political motive. This program needs to be focused on combating fraud and protecting consumers rather than becoming an end-run around the Second Amendment.” H.R. 766 would protect customers’ access to banking services from federal regulators, except in cases where there is material reason—such as a threat to national security—to terminate such access. H.R. 766 ensures that businesses operating lawfully are not denied access to banking services. H.R. 766 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 250-169.
01.14.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 253 Members of Congress in passing S.J.Res. 22, a resolution intended to stop the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from implementing the Obama Administration’s controversial Clean Water Rule. The rule, which was implemented in June 2015 in spite of widespread opposition among the public and in Congress, broadly expands the agencies’ jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. S.J.Res. 22 would use the Congressional Review Act to prevent the rule from being enacted and bring the agencies’ actions back in line with congressional intent. “After seven years of the Obama Administration, I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised at EPA’s voracious appetite for expanding its power, regardless of public opinion or the impact that its onerous regulations have on states and on farmers and ranchers,” said Simpson. “It also shouldn’t be a surprise, then, that a concerned Congress would utilize its authority to prevent this harmful rule from going into effect—and that I should wholeheartedly support that effort. There are major problems with the way that the EPA has claimed jurisdiction over state-regulated waters. This rule will have a devastating impact on Idaho if it is allowed to move forward.” The Congressional Review Act guards against federal agencies imposing economically burdensome regulations. Simpson, who has long fought against efforts to expand the EPA’s control over state waters, is a cosponsor of the House version of the resolution, H.J.Res. 59. He chairs the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Corps of Engineers. He also sits on the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the EPA.
01.12.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after the President’s State of the Union Address. “I am not surprised that the President missed another opportunity to unite our country with his last State of the Union address,” said Simpson. “Instead of engaging Congress with a list of policy proposals we can work on together, the President chose to use the speech to lecture the nation on his agenda and his tired executive actions that continue to be blocked by our judicial branch. Noticeably absent from his speech was an acknowledgement that a mere 27 percent of Americans currently believe the country is headed in the right direction. Also noticeably absent was any mention of the crisis we face with regard to our national debt, with the President instead pronouncing new federal programs that would only add billions to it. “There is no doubt this President delivers a great speech. The problem is he simply cannot deliver what he promises to the American people. The truth is that ISIS is not contained, the labor force participation rate remains too low, and our government-knows-best healthcare system is raising costs for families and patients. Sadly, the President missed a chance to provide a path forward at a time when our country needs bold ideas and creative solutions.”
01.06.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the Senate amendment to H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act today which builds on the House passed version from October. The legislation repeals the most onerous Obamacare provisions through a mechanism known as reconciliation, which is a budgeting process that allows Congress to align the priorities outlined in the budget resolution with existing law. This is the first Obamacare repeal bill that will reach the President’s desk. “Since the inception of Obamacare, Americans have sent a clear message that the law is not working for them or their families,” said Simpson. “They have registered their disapproval through polls, by contacting their representatives, and by electing a Republican majority in both the House and Senate who categorically oppose government run healthcare. Today’s Obamacare repeal bill would provide relief to Americans by eliminating the burdensome taxes and overreaching mandates that are directly responsible for driving up healthcare costs.” Specifically, H.R. 3762 would address key problems with Obamacare including: Repeal the individual mandate – Currently, Americans who do not purchase a health insurance plan through an exchange, receive insurance through Medicaid, or receive employer sponsored coverage, are subject to a penalty. Repeal the employer mandate – Employers with 100 or more employees who do not offer health insurance are subject to penalties that range from $2,000-$3,000. Repeal the Medical Device Tax – the 2.3% excise tax on medical devices is currently being passed on to consumers. Repeal the “Cadillac Tax” – 40% excise tax of the value of employer sponsored health coverage that exceeds certain benefit thresholds. Repeal Prevention and Public Health Fund – Also known as the Obamacare slush fund that gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services billions of dollars annually to spend with limited accountability. “By passing today’s legislation, Americans are one step closer to ending government-knows-best healthcare and paving the way for real healthcare reforms that return important medical decisions back into the hands of families, patients, and doctors,” said Simpson. In addition to repealing sections of Obamacare, H.R. 3762 would place a one year freeze on certain abortion providers such as Planned Parenthood, while redirecting those funds to community health centers. The bill also addresses our national debt by reducing budget deficits by $516 billion over the next 10 years. H.R. 3762 was passed by a vote of 240-181 and will now head to the President’s desk where he is expected to veto the legislation.
01.05.2016	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement after President Obama unveiled a set of new gun control proposals. “I am disappointed but not surprised that President Obama is once again using executive orders to unilaterally push forward his personal agenda,” said Simpson. “This Administration pushes constitutional boundaries by implementing policies that should be considered, debated, and voted on by Congress. Limiting the ability of law abiding citizens to exercise their constitutional rights to own firearms, will not address the crime problem. We should focus on improving the care of the mentally ill and enforcing the laws we have in place to ensure that they are kept out of the hands of violent criminals.”
12.18.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the passage of H.R. 2029, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations bill that included many important provisions for Idaho and Western States. The House passed H.R. 2029 by a vote of 316-113, and it will be considered by the U.S. Senate today. Links to the bill text and reports can be found here: https://rules.house.gov/bill/114/hr-2029-sa. “I applaud Chairman Rogers and Speaker Ryan for their hard work in assembling this comprehensive and responsible package that will keep the government open through the rest of this fiscal year,” said Simpson. “This bill contains many critical wins for Idaho and Western States. It avoids the inefficient and negligent practice of funding the government through continuing resolutions, and is instead the product of this past year’s worth of thoughtful deliberation and line-by-line analysis of our budget. It will make vital investments in our national economy, all while adhering to budget caps that are $56 billion below the Ryan budget for FY16 and $70 billion below the Ryan budget for FY17. With all of the provisions that support conservative priorities and Idaho specifically, and I am so pleased to see that it passed the House with overwhelming support.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Vice Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment, Simpson had a key role in deciding funding levels for Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs, including the following highlights: Energy and Water Development “The Energy and Water division of the omnibus continues to support accelerating nuclear innovation programs and addressing much needed infrastructure enhancements at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Mike Simpson. “INL plays a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. We are so lucky to have this world class facility in our backyard, with a workforce that constantly pushes the bound of scientific research; we must ensure its capabilities are protected and maximized.” The FY 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $986 million, an increase of $73 million above fiscal year 2015 and $79 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $986 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $222.5 million – an increase of $16.5 million above FY15, and $11 million above the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $126.1 million – an increase of $22.1 million over fiscal year 2015. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $111.6 million – an increase of $10.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $25 million above the President’s request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $62.5 million–$8 million above fiscal year 2015. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $141.7 million – an increase of $8.7 million above fiscal year 2015, and $33.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $141.7 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $62.1 million—a $2 million increase from fiscal year 2015; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $85 million. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $77.2 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor to accelerate planned safety-related infrastructure upgrades, and $86 million is included for the Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization Project. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $7 million is included to continue performance testing and life cycle diagnostic assessment activities that validate and verify advanced battery performance. The bill also provides $396 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level of $396 million is an increase of $16.5 million above fiscal year 2015 and $36 million above the President’s request, which will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Finally, the bill includes $2 million for dynamic threat assessments at Idaho National Laboratory to create innovative assessment tools for the US government on high consequence threats to the electric grid, oil and gas, and nuclear energy sectors. Transportation, Housing and Urban Development “I am so pleased to see the important language allowing trucks weighing up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho interstates included in the omnibus,” said Simpson. “This change has long been sought by the State of Idaho because it will remove the competitive disadvantage the state currently faces, and will be a major generator of economic activity in Idaho. By ensuring that Idaho’s vehicle laws match those of its neighboring states, Idaho can more efficiently play a larger role in transferring goods without impacting road safety.” The increase to 129,000 pounds from the current allowance of 105,500 pounds will put Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highways, which currently allow trucks up to 129,000 pounds. The current weight limit has made it difficult for Idaho producers to ship goods to, from, and through the state. A higher weight limit means trucks will have more axles than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that there is less weight on each axle than a standard truck. It also will reduce the number of trucks on the road. Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee "This bill makes a critical and significant investment in preventing and fighting wildfires," said Simpson. "This year's fire season was so terrible that the Forest Service and DOI had already gone half a billion dollars over budget by mid-August and ultimately had to transfer $700 million from other non-fire accounts in order to keep putting out fires. This bill provides $4.2 billion for wildfire suppression and prevention programs, which includes $1 billion in firefighting reserve funds. As the cost of fighting wildfires increases, this increased funding will provide the agencies with the resources they need to respond to wildfires without decimating forest management accounts in the process. The bill also includes important funding for hazardous fuels activities and timber management accounts, which will give the Forest Service tools to improve forest health and ultimately reduce the impact of wildfires. "Fire borrowing remains a problem, and I am disappointed that, in spite of a significant bipartisan effort, my language to fix the wildfire budgeting process was not included in the omnibus. I am hopeful, however, that this increased funding will address the issue for the coming fiscal year, giving us an opportunity to push a long-term solution like the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act across the finish line." In addition to providing $4.2 billion for wildfire programs, the Interior portion of the bill: Includes full funding of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $28,609,614 in PILT funding for FY15. Provides $545 million for hazardous fuels reduction activities—a $19 million increase over FY15, and $360 million for the timber program—a $21 million increase of FY15. Cuts EPA funding by $452 million below the President’s budget request, holding the agency’s budget at 21% below FY10 levels. Provides $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves. Continues language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court. Includes a 3-year extension of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, with 50% of program funding going to state and local recreation, conservation, and battlefield protection programs. Agriculture “I am very pleased the omnibus includes language that maintains the mission at Dubois,” said Simpson. “Because of its location, and expertise, the Dubois staff are working on unique issues, including research on the domestic-wildlife interface that is vital to the sheep industry’s future.” Includes language that preserves Agricultural Research Service (ARS) research programs which includes the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station (USSES) in Dubois, Idaho. The administration attempted to close the facility in 2014 without notifying Congress. Defense “By ensuring the A-10 remains available for close air support, we are responding to the needs of the service members that operate them and to the brave men and women on the ground that rely on them,” said Simpson. “While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” Denies the administration’s request to retire the A-10 Thunderbolt II which is based at the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard at Gowen Field in Boise and provides funding to keep them flying in FY16. Provides a 1.3% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty troops and nearly 811,000 reserves. Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations “Following the recent passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization, it is important that we match appropriate funding levels so these programs can succeed,” said Simpson. “Impact Aid is important to the counties and school districts that are impacted by federal activities and I’m glad this bill honors that responsibility.” $1.3 billion—a $17 million dollar increase over FY15 for Impact Aid which benefits Idaho counties and schools.
12.17.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded the release of H.R. 2029, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations bill that included many important provisions for Idaho and Western States. “I applaud Chairman Rogers and Speaker Ryan for their hard work in assembling this comprehensive and responsible package that will keep the government open through the rest of this fiscal year,” said Simpson. “This bill contains many critical wins for Idaho and Western States. It avoids the inefficient and negligent practice of funding the government through continuing resolutions, and is instead the product of this past year’s worth of thoughtful deliberation and line-by-line analysis of our budget. It will make vital investments in our national economy, all while adhering to budget caps that are $56 billion below the Ryan budget for FY16 and $70 billion below the Ryan budget for FY17. This bill has countless provisions that support conservative priorities and Idaho specifically, I look forward to its swift passage.” As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Vice Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment, Simpson had a key role in deciding funding levels for Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs, including the following highlights: Energy and Water Development The FY 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $986 million, an increase of $73 million above fiscal year 2015 and $79 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $986 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $222.5 million – an increase of $16.5 million above FY15, and $11 million above the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $126.1 million – an increase of $22.1 million over fiscal year 2015. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $111.6 million – an increase of $10.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $25 million above the President’s request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $62.5 million–$8 million above fiscal year 2015. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $141.7 million – an increase of $8.7 million above fiscal year 2015, and $33.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $141.7 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $62.1 million—a $2 million increase from fiscal year 2015; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $85 million. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $77.2 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor to accelerate planned safety-related infrastructure upgrades, and $86 million is included for the Spent Fuel Handling Recapitalization Project. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. Within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, $7 million is included to continue performance testing and life cycle diagnostic assessment activities that validate and verify advanced battery performance. “The Energy and Water division of the omnibus continues to support accelerating nuclear innovation programs and addressing much needed infrastructure enhancements at the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Chairman Mike Simpson. “INL plays a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. We are so lucky to have this world class facility in our backyard, with a workforce that constantly pushes the bound of scientific research; we must ensure its capabilities are protected and maximized.” The bill also provides $396 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level of $396 million is an increase of $16.5 million above fiscal year 2015 and $36 million above the President’s request, which will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Finally, the bill includes $2 million for dynamic threat assessments at Idaho National Laboratory to create innovative assessment tools for the US government on high consequence threats to the electric grid, oil and gas, and nuclear energy sectors. Transportation, Housing and Urban Development The bill includes language to increase to 129,000 pounds from the current allowance of 105,500 pounds will put Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highways, which currently allow trucks up to 129,000 pounds. The current weight limit has made it difficult for Idaho producers to ship goods to, from, and through the state. A higher weight limit means trucks will have more axles than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that there is less weight on each axle than a standard truck. It also will reduce the number of trucks on the road. “I am so pleased to see the important language allowing trucks weighing up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho interstates included in the omnibus,” said Simpson. “This change has long been sought by the State of Idaho because it will remove the competitive disadvantage the state currently faces, and will be a major generator of economic activity in Idaho. By ensuring that Idaho’s vehicle laws match those of its neighboring states, Idaho can more efficiently play a larger role in transferring goods without impacting road safety.” Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee In addition to providing $4.2 billion for wildfire programs, the Interior portion of the bill: Includes full funding of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $28,609,614 in PILT funding for FY15. Provides $545 million for hazardous fuels reduction activities—a $19 million increase over FY15, and $360 million for the timber program—a $21 million increase of FY15. Cuts EPA funding by $452 million below the President’s budget request, holding the agency’s budget at 21% below FY10 levels. Provides $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves. Continues language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court. Includes a 3-year extension of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, with 50% of program funding going to state and local recreation, conservation, and battlefield protection programs. “This bill makes a critical and significant investment in preventing and fighting wildfires," said Simpson. "This year's fire season was so terrible that the Forest Service and DOI had already gone half a billion dollars over budget by mid-August and ultimately had to transfer $700 million from other non-fire accounts in order to keep putting out fires. This bill provides $4.2 billion for wildfire suppression and prevention programs, which includes $1 billion in firefighting reserve funds. As the cost of fighting wildfires increases, this increased funding will provide the agencies with the resources they need to respond to wildfires without decimating forest management accounts in the process. The bill also includes important funding for hazardous fuels activities and timber management accounts, which will give the Forest Service tools to improve forest health and ultimately reduce the impact of wildfires. “Fire borrowing remains a problem and I am hopeful that this increased funding will address the issue for the coming fiscal year, giving us an opportunity to push a long-term solution like the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act across the finish line” Agriculture Includes language that preserves Agricultural Research Service (ARS) research programs which includes the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station (USSES) in Dubois, Idaho. The administration attempted to close the facility in 2014 without notifying Congress. Includes language that repeals mandatory country-of-origin-labeling (COOL) which ensures the U.S. will no longer violate international trade policy. Last week, the World Trade Organization announced that Canada and Mexico could seek $1 billion in retaliatory tariffs due to COOL. This would have significant impacts on Idaho agriculture with estimated tariffs as high as $172 million on Idaho exports. Congressman Simpson supported passage of standalone legislation to repeal COOL in June, which passed the House with wide bipartisan support. “I am very pleased the omnibus includes language that maintains the mission at Dubois,” said Simpson. “Because of its location, and expertise, the Dubois staff are working on unique issues, including research on the domestic-wildlife interface that is vital to the sheep industry’s future. I am also pleased that COOL repeal was included as just today Mexico and Canada announced that they are prepared to seek retaliatory tariffs should this bill not pass.” Defense The defense portion of the bill denies the administration’s request to retire the A-10 Thunderbolt II which is based at the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard at Gowen Field in Boise and provides funding to keep them flying in FY16. The bill also includes: Provides a 1.3% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty troops and nearly 811,000 reserves. “By ensuring the A-10 remains available for close air support, we are responding to the needs of the service members that operate them and to the brave men and women on the ground that rely on them,” said Simpson. “While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations $1.3 billion—a $17 million dollar increase over FY15 for Impact Aid which benefits Idaho counties and schools. “Following the recent passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act reauthorization, it is important that we match appropriate funding levels so these programs can succeed,” said Simpson. “Impact Aid is important to the counties and school districts that are impacted by federal activities and I’m glad this bill honors that responsibility.” The House is scheduled to vote on H.R. 2029 on Friday, December 18th. Links to the bill text and reports can be found here: https://rules.house.gov/bill/114/hr-2029-sa
12.16.2015	The House Appropriations Committee released FY2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill last night. This legislation includes funding for the 12 annual Appropriations bills through the end of the fiscal year, September 30, 2016. Many provisions that are critical to Idaho are included in the legislation. Chairman Simpson secured increased funding for operations and research at the INL, funding for the A-10 at Gowen Field, and full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. Simpson’s language allowing trucks weighs up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho Interstates is also in the bill. Along with these provisions for Idaho, the legislation includes numerous important policy items that increase transparency and accountability to federal agencies and stop the administrative overreach. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, released the following statement: “I applaud Chairman Rogers and Speaker Ryan for their hard work in assembling this comprehensive and responsible package that will keep the government open through the rest of this fiscal year,” said Simpson. “This bill contains many critical provisions for Idaho and Western States, including increased funding for operations and research at the INL, continued funding for the A-10 at Gowen Field, and full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, on which rural counties throughout Idaho depend. I was also very pleased to see my language allowing trucks weighing up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho Interstates. This is something I have been seeking for years on behalf of Idaho Transportation Department, and it will be a major generator of economic activity in Idaho. “This bill avoids the inefficient and negligent practice of funding the government through continuing resolutions,” continued Simpson, “and is instead the product of this past year’s worth of thoughtful deliberation and line-by-line analysis of our budget. It is an important step back toward regular order, it contains many provisions that support conservative priorities, and I look forward to its swift passage.”
12.03.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson signed onto an amicus brief regarding the recent decision by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals in the American Farm Bureau Federation v. United States Environmental Protection Agency. The brief outlines concerns about the EPA’s overreach in the Chesapeake Bay blueprint, in which the EPA has issued an ultimatum to states that if they don’t follow the federal blueprint, they risk the EPA taking over their water quality plans under the Clean Water Act. “We’ve seen a lot of examples of EPA overreach throughout the Obama Administration,” said Simpson, “but this is one of the most egregious. The Third Circuit Court has basically handed the EPA the right to usurp states’ authority over their own water, as long as the law doesn’t expressly prohibit them doing so. This is totally backwards—agencies should only act when Congress expressly authorizes them to do so, and the idea that Congress should have to pass laws to prohibit each and every activity that an agency could do is ludicrous. If this can happen in the Chesapeake Bay area, it can happen in Idaho, and I am extremely concerned about the implications of this decision.” Simpson sits on the subcommittee that oversees the budget for the EPA. He has long opposed efforts by the Obama Administration to expand the agency’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act.
12.03.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported the conference report to reauthorize highway programs for five years, providing long-term certainty to state and local governments to carry out much needed maintenance and repair projects for our roads, bridges, and transit systems. The Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act passed the House by a vote of 359-65. “Funding for highways is some of the most important money appropriated on the federal level,” said Simpson. “Idaho’s economy depends on an efficient and affordable transportation system to move people and products across the country. After years of doing short term extensions and patches that make long term planning and investment impossible, this bill will provide critical economic development, job creation, and safety improvements on our Federal Highway System. I was also pleased to see this bill make good on the promise to reverse the recent $3 billion cut to crop insurance payments.” Earlier in the week, Congressman Simpson supported passage of the conference report to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). The legislation, the Every Student Succeeds Act, passed the House of Representatives by a bipartisan vote of 359-64. It has been more than seven years since the last long term education bill No Child Left Behind expired. “Passing a final version of ESEA reauthorization is a victory for education in our country,” said Simpson. “This bill represents positive reforms to the education system, returns important decisions back to states and localities, and empowers the most integral people in the education system – educators, parents, and of course students. It makes improvements based on what we learned from No Child Left Behind and will no longer allow the president to unilaterally impose his agenda through conditional waivers.” Specifically, the Every Student Succeeds Act reduces the federal role in education by removing ineffective policies such as the adequately yearly progress federal criteria, and returns accountability responsibilities back to the states. The bill also reauthorizes Impact Aid, a program on which rural counties and schools in Idaho depend. “Each of these two bills makes crucial investments in our economy,” said Simpson. “Congress has for too long failed in its duty to reauthorize long-expired transportation and education programs. This week we have made important reforms and improvements to these programs that eliminate unsuccessful and inefficient measures previously in place. We’ve also provided needed certainty to state and local governments who are trying to maintain and improve our transportation infrastructure and advance our education programs. As is always the case in a divided government, this is a compromise. But it would be irresponsible to reject forward progress in favor of a failed status quo just because we did not get everything we wanted.”
12.02.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted for two resolutions intended to put the brakes on the Obama Administration’s new cap and trade regulations. The votes on S.J Res. 23 and S.J. Res. 24 disapprove of two rules recently finalized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. S.J.Res. 23 and S.J.Res. 24 would employ the Congressional Review Act to ensure that the rules do not go into effect. Simpson has long opposed efforts to impose unworkable regulations on the energy sector that would do little to improve climate conditions but would impose prohibitive costs to consumers. “The American people have already rejected the idea of imposing a costly and unrealistic cap and trade system on our economy, yet the Obama Administration continues to be bent on implementing its own climate change regulations, in spite of their unpopularity with the public,” said Simpson. “Frankly, the President’s lack of regard for the economic impact of his regulatory actions and his willingness to ignore the legislative process make it necessary to use the Congressional Review Act to get the Administration’s regulatory appetite in check.” The EPA’s new and existing power plant rules were finalized in October. The new power plant rule depends on technologies, like carbon capture and sequestration, which are still not largely available or viable. The existing power plant rule would effectively put into place a cap and trade system, even though many economists agree that such a system is not the most effective way to reduce the impacts of climate change. Without global participation in such a program, including heavy polluters in growing economies like India and China, U.S. industries will be unable to compete on the world stage and American jobs will be forced overseas. “The Obama Administration’s rules impose a regulatory structure on our nation’s energy sector that is simply not viable, and even worse, it forces the American people to foot the bill,” said Simpson. “Instead, I support using technology, incentives, and innovation to move our economy to sustainable, independent energy sources. That means we need to look at all the options and approach them in a common sense, thoughtful way. Unfortunately, these rules don’t do that.” S.J.Res. 23 and S.J.Res. 24 passed by a vote of 235-188 and 242-180.
11.18.2015	On Tuesday, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage of a motion to go to conference on a bill to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA). The motion to go to conference, which was passed by the House without opposition, is the next step towards finalizing ESEA, which was last reauthorized in 2001, and is the primary law which governs K-12 education in the United States. “Today is a positive step forward on education reform,” said Simpson. “I have heard from teachers, parents, administrators, and of course students about how we can update our K-12 education system. I am very pleased the House has acted to go to conference and I look forward to analyzing the conferees’ work as they ultimately craft a final bill with the Senate.” Both the House and Senate passed individual versions of ESEA reauthorization in July. The Senate also agreed on a motion to go to conference. “While No Child Left Behind was not without its flaws, it certainly gave stakeholders an evaluation of which education reforms work and which simply do not. This conference committee is a unique opportunity for Congress work together to advance solutions for one of the most important issues in our country – education.” Last Friday, Congressman Simpson signed a letter to the House and Senate chairmen and ranking members with jurisdiction over education reform, urging them to finish their work and complete conference negotiations to reauthorize ESEA as soon as possible. The first conference committee between House and Senate conferees is today.
11.18.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson strongly supports efforts to put the brakes on the Obama Administration’s new cap and trade regulations. Simpson has long opposed efforts to impose unworkable regulations on the energy sector that would do little to improve climate conditions but would impose prohibitive costs to consumers. Most recently he has cosponsored resolutions to disapprove of two rules recently finalized by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to regulate carbon dioxide emissions from new and existing power plants. H.J.Res. 71 and H.J.Res. 72 would employ the Congressional Review Act to ensure that the rules do not go into effect. “The American people have already rejected the idea of imposing a costly and unrealistic cap and trade system on our economy, yet the Obama Administration continues to be bent on implementing its own climate change regulations, in spite of their unpopularity with the public,” said Simpson. “Frankly, the President’s lack of regard for the economic impact of his regulatory actions and his willingness to ignore the legislative process make it necessary to use the Congressional Review Act to get the Administration’s regulatory appetite in check.” The EPA’s new and existing power plant rules were finalized in October. The new power plant rule depends on technologies, like carbon capture and sequestration, that are still not largely available or viable. The existing power plant rule would effectively put into place a cap and trade system, even though many economists agree that such a system is not the most effective way to reduce the impacts of climate change. Without global participation in such a program, including heavy polluters in growing economies like India and China, U.S. industries will be unable to compete on the world stage and American jobs will be forced overseas. “The Obama Administration’s rules impose an unfeasible regulatory structure on our nation’s energy sector and force the American people to foot the bill,” said Simpson. “Instead, I support using technology, incentives, and innovation to move our economy to a sustainable, independent energy source. That means we need to look at all the options and approach them in a common sense, thoughtful way. Unfortunately, these rules don’t do that.” H.J.Res. 71 and H.J.Res. 72 are being marked up in committee today, with floor consideration expected soon.
10.28.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored a resolution intended to stop the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from implementing the Obama Administration’s controversial Clean Water Rule. In spite of widespread opposition in Congress and among the public, in June the Administration implemented a new rule broadly expanding its jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. H.J.Res. 59 would use the Congressional Review Act to prevent the rule from being enacted and bring the agency’s actions back in line with congressional intent. The resolution comes at the same time that a federal appeals court has put implementation of the rule on hold. “The EPA continues marching down a path of issuing one onerous federal regulation after another without regard for public opinion or the impact that these regulations have on the states and on farmers and ranchers,” said Simpson. “I have continually joined a majority of the House of Representatives in expressing my concern about this rule, and so it’s no surprise that I support utilizing the Congressional Review Act, which guards against federal agencies imposing economically burdensome regulations, to prevent this harmful rule from going into effect.” Simpson added, “I’m also encouraged by the court’s decision to put a hold on the nationwide implementation of this rule. There are real problems with the way the EPA has claimed jurisdiction over state-regulated waters, and this rule will have a devastating impact on Idaho if it is allowed to move forward. That is why I will continue working to prevent it from taking effect.” Simpson is the Chairman of the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the Corps of Engineers’ budget. He also sits on the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the EPA.
10.28.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted to support H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Agreement of 2015. In addition to preventing a catastrophic national default, this agreement achieves long-term savings through entitlement reform, delivers predictability and certainty to the appropriations process and the funding of our national defense, and repeals an onerous mandate put in place by Obamacare. H.R. 1314 is fully offset and does not increase taxes. “It is imperative that we act in the best interest of our nation by preventing a default on our national credit,” said Simpson. “To allow that to happen would be irresponsible at best and catastrophic at worst. Given that reality, I’m pleased that House and Senate leadership have reached an agreement that protects the budget cuts put in place by the sequester, but protects our military and domestic programs from its mindless cuts by replacing it with meaningful reforms in mandatory spending and other savings. This agreement reduces the deficit by nearly $80 billion over 10 years—which means that budget it keeps us on track to save taxpayers more than $2 TRILLION, as mandated by the original Budget Control Act. Recognizing that we have a responsibility to act on this issue, I believe this is a fiscally responsible agreement.” Among other provisions, the agreement would do the following: Puts in place budget caps that are $56 billion below the Ryan budget for FY16 and $70 billion below the Ryan budget for FY17. Ensures that the Social Security Disability Trust Fund—currently scheduled for a 20% reduction across the board at the end of next year—will be able to continue to pay full benefits; Includes structural entitlement reforms to strengthen the long-term solvency of the Social Security program; Replaces sequestration’s arbitrary, across-the-board cuts with more rational deficit reduction; Eliminates Obamacare’s mandate that employees must enroll into their company’s health care plan; Prevents a dramatic spike in Medicare Part B premiums for millions of seniors. “This bill isn’t perfect, and like others, I have concerns about the crop insurance provisions and the Medicare cuts to hospitals,” said Simpson. “But I realize that this agreement is necessary for the health and stability of our economy. This country has big problems, and the American people expect more from their elected officials than to sit on the sidelines and criticize everything that does not meet their ideologically pure standards. That’s easy. Solving problems—also known as governing—is hard work.” Despite the passage of this constructive agreement, Simpson believes Congress has considerable work ahead of it in further reducing the budget and eliminating the deficit. He remains a strong proponent of a Balanced Budget Amendment and is a leading advocate in Congress for reforming the tax code and entitlement programs to achieve real progress toward smaller, more efficient federal government.
10.23.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act today. The legislation repeals the most onerous Obamacare provisions through a mechanism known as reconciliation, which is a budgeting process that allows Congress to align the priorities outlined in the current year’s budget resolution with existing law. “Even though Obamacare was signed into law five years ago, I still hear from Idahoans every single day about the law’s negative impacts,” said Simpson. “A major issue with Obamacare since day one has been limiting the freedom of choice for beneficiaries. H.R. 3762 directly addresses this by repealing the major barriers that are impeding Americans’ ability to make choices about their healthcare plans.” Specifically, H.R. 3762 would address key problems with Obamacare including: Repeal the individual mandate – Currently, Americans who do not purchase a health insurance plan through an exchange, receive insurance through Medicaid, or receive employer sponsored coverage, are subject to a penalty; Repeal the employer mandate – Employers with 100 or more employees who do not offer health insurance are subject to penalties that range from $2,000-$3,000; Repeal the Medical Device Tax – the 2.3% excise tax on medical devices is currently being passed on to consumers; Repeal the “Cadillac Tax” – 40% excise tax of the value of employer sponsored health coverage that exceeds certain benefit thresholds; Repeal Prevention and Public Health Fund – Referred to as the Obamacare slush fund that gives Secretary of Health and Human Services billions of dollars annually to spend with limited accountability; Repeal Auto-Enrollment Mandate – Requires large employers to auto-enroll employees in their medical plans. “The reconciliation package passed by the House eliminates burdensome government mandates and repeals Obamacare taxes that are responsible for driving up the cost of healthcare for families, patients, and doctors. As the broken promises of Obamacare continue to pile on the backs of Americans I will continue to support legislation that protects individuals and families from the most harmful impacts of the law.” In addition to repealing sections of Obamacare, H.R. 3762 would place a one year freeze on certain abortion providers such as Planned Parenthood while redirecting those funds to community health centers. The bill also addresses our national debt by reducing budget deficits by $136.8 billion over 10 years. H.R. 3762 was passed by a vote of 240 to 189 and will now head to the Senate for consideration.
10.23.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.R. 1937, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act when it came before the House of Representatives this week. The legislation would ensure the availability of domestic minerals and mineral materials that are essential for national security, technological innovation, and economic growth by streamlining the permitting process for mineral exploration and development projects. Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1937. “The United States is increasingly dependent on mineral materials for everything from technology to national security and defense,” said Simpson. “In spite of this, the permitting process has become more and more difficult to navigate, and today we are almost completely reliant on countries like China for the rare earth minerals we need for energy production, national security, and communication technology. I don’t like the idea that we are subject to the legal and political whims of other nations for strategic minerals, which is why I cosponsored H.R. 1937 and am pleased that the House has taken it up.” H.R. 1937 was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 254-177.
10.21.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has signed onto legislation to give federal land managers better tools to improve sage-grouse habitat. H.R. 1793, the Sage-Grouse and Mule Deer Habitat Conservation and Restoration Act of 2015, would create a categorical exclusion from the NEPA process in order to remove pinyon-juniper from sage-grouse and mule deer habitat. “Some of the major threats to sage-grouse habitat are wildfire and invasive species, and controlling these threats requires good, active land management practices,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, the environmental review process has grown so cumbersome for the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management that it has gotten in the way of their efforts to conserve the species. H.R. 1793 addresses this problem by providing the agencies with the tools they need to remove pinyon-juniper on sage-grouse and mule deer habitat throughout the west.” H.R. 1793 is currently under consideration by the House Natural Resources Committee.
10.09.2015	Idaho’s economy, both urban and rural, is inextricably tied to our ability to export the products and commodities we produce. Whether it be by our high tech industry, which is the largest Idaho export to the world, or our agricultural products, which help support thousands of jobs. I strongly believe that Idaho’s farmers and businesses can compete and win on a level playing field and this is where the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank plays an important role. The Ex-Im Bank is the official export credit agency of the U.S., with a mission to finance and promote exports of U.S. manufactured goods and services. More than 80% of trade worldwide requires financing, and most countries that we trade with have established export credit agencies, which often support their companies much more generously than the Bank has ever done. China alone has provided its exporters with at least $670 billion in export financing over the last two years. To put that in context, the Ex-Im Bank has provided about $590 billion in financing since its inception—81 years ago. Why would we want to put American companies at a disadvantage against their Chinese competitors? That is exactly what we have done since July 1st, when the charter of the Ex-Im bank expired. Since then, the U.S. has not been able to finance exports, leaving American companies to lose out on business to other countries. With 95% of the world’s consumers living outside the U.S., now is not the time to surrender this important job growing tool. According to the Nuclear Energy Institute, U.S. nuclear energy suppliers compete against international rivals that are supported by their governments, and the availability of export credit agency support is almost always a bidding requirement for nuclear power plant tenders. Numerous American businesses have said that allowing the Ex-Im Bank to expire would be tantamount to unilateral trade disarmament, conceding billions of dollars in orders to other nations that maintain their own export credit agencies. For 70 years, the Ex-Im Bank has been reauthorized without issue. In fact, since I have been in Congress the Bank has been brought up for reauthorization 25 times and has passed with overwhelming support, including mine, each time. However, many are now arguing that the Bank serves as “corporate welfare.” They claim it puts taxpayers at risk, and only benefits big businesses. This cannot be further from the truth. Last year, fees and interest collected by the Bank brought in a total $675 million to the U.S. Treasury. The Bank itself has credit assessment procedures that are more rigorous than commercial banks and, as of March 2015, a historical default rate of below 1%. Large companies do use the Ex-Im Bank to finance exports and make up 40% of the Bank’s balance sheet. However, 90% of the service products provided by the Ex-Im Bank are made to support small businesses. From 2009-2014, the Bank has supported $169 million in exports from Idaho, with 71% of support going to small businesses. The economic growth of our state depends on the ability of our high tech and manufacturing sectors to ship their products globally, and I will not support threatening the competitiveness of these American companies by dismantling the Ex-Im Bank. Not only does the Bank level the playing field, but it also supports job growth, capital investment and helps reduce the national debt. It is a win-win for Idaho.
10.01.2015	The House of Representatives today passed the conference report to H.R. 1735, - the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the legislation which authorizes many important programs that support our military, including a pay increase and benefits to military members and their families. The conference report includes important Idaho priorities such as a provision which prevents retirement of the A-10 Thunderbolt II, a squadron of which currently operates at Gowen Field in Boise and it also authorizes funding for the aircraft to continue operating. “By ensuring the A-10 remains available for close air support, we are responding to the needs of the service members that operate them and to the brave men and women on the ground that rely on them,” said Simpson. “While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified. I am pleased today’s conference report recognizes the unique importance and contributions of the A-10.” The conference report also delays the transfer of AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National Guard to active duty Army through June 30th of fiscal year 2016. The Apache helicopters also operate at Gowen Field. The conference report to H.R. 1735 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 270-156.
09.17.2015	The 2015 wildfire season has been brutal. In mid-August the National Wildland Fire Preparedness Level was raised to the highest Level 5 and the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC) mobilized active duty military personnel to fight wildfires for the first time in almost a decade. Millions of acres are burning in the drought-plagued West—more than twice as many as last year—and the Forest Service anticipates that suppression costs will exceed the budget by nearly a half a billion dollars. The severity of this fire season underscores the fact that our current wildfire suppression budget process simply does not work. Twenty years ago wildfire suppression made up about 15% of the Forest Service budget. This year it is over half. This means that the Forest Service spends the majority of its time, funding, and staff resources putting out fires instead of managing our nation’s public lands. This situation has reached a crisis point. This is why we have introduced H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act (WDFA). The WDFA discards the old, broken model for wildfire suppression and replaces it with one that treats wildfires like the natural disasters they are. Today wildfire suppression funding is based primarily on an historical average of suppression costs over the past ten years. The ten-year average funding model worked when the cost of wildfire suppression was relatively stable. But wildfire suppression costs have steadily grown over the past two decades. Drought, invasive vegetation, and increasing development near wildland areas increase the risk of catastrophic fires. Fire season is longer, fires are more severe, and suppression is more costly—and these trends are expected to continue. And because suppression costs now routinely exceed the budget, agencies are continually forced to transfer funding from non-fire projects to pay them. Our current path only leads to bigger, more expensive, and more devastating fires. The WDFA changes directions by treating catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters. It continues to use the 10-year average funding model where it works—for routine wildfire suppression costs—but it makes those few but very expensive emergency fires eligible for the same disaster spending cap adjustment as other natural disasters. Catastrophic fires represent only about 1% of all wildland fires but make up 30% of the costs. The WDFA allows us to finally budget responsibly for wildfire suppression in a way that ultimately decreases firefighting costs by mitigating fire risk. It restores the Forest Service’s ability to effectively manage our forests, and with proper management forests will be more resilient to catastrophic fire, disease, and other threats. And ending the destructive cycle of fire borrowing means that land management agencies will be more accountable to Congress’s direction. The fires we experience out west are just as devastating as the hurricanes and tornadoes that strike the East Coast and Midwest and they should be funded as such. Westerners have been suffering from this fairness issue and it’s high time that all states be treated the same—with equal access to disaster funding. As wildfires continue to blaze, Congress has a responsibility to act. Today over 130 Members of Congress have cosponsored H.R. 167, and that number continues to grow. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of over 300 organizations who all recognize that the status quo is unsustainable. Fixing the wildfire budget is the critical first step in making our forests healthier and, ultimately, reducing the cost of wildfires in the future. Congressman Mike Simpson represents Idaho’s 2nd Congressional District and serves as Chairman of the Energy & Water Appropriations Subcommittee and Vice-Chair of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. Congressman Kurt Schrader has represented Oregon's 5th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives since 2009. Congressman Ken Calvert represents California’s 42nd Congressional District and serves as Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. Congresswoman Betty McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. She has represented Minnesota’s 4th Congressional District since 2001.
09.10.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has introduced a resolution recognizing community water fluoridation as an effective and important public health measure. This year marks the 70th anniversary of communities utilizing fluoridated water which helps strengthen teeth and prevent tooth decay. “The oral health community is in steadfast agreement that water fluoridation is a vitally important public health measure,” said Simpson. “Communities who have chosen this proactive measure receive improved oral health benefits for people of all ages.” The U.S. Public Health Service recommends adding fluoride to drinking water for its effectiveness in preventing tooth decay. The decision about whether to fluoridate public water supplies is always made at the local or state level. “Twenty-two years of practicing dentistry showed me firsthand the value of good oral health and the consequences of neglect, especially among children,” said Simpson. “That is why improving access to oral health care has been a top priority for me since coming to Congress. This resolution sheds light on a cost-effective measure that has helped improve the health of millions of Americans.” Community water fluoridation was recognized by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as one of the ten great public health achievements of the 20th century. Water fluoridation has been proven to reduce tooth decay by 25% among children and adults, and school children on average have roughly 2 fewer decayed teeth compared with children who live in communities without fluoridated water. As of 2012, almost 75% of Americans who use public water supplies had access to optimally fluoridated water supplies. Congressman Simpson, co-chair of the Oral Health Caucus and a former dentist, introduced the resolution with a bipartisan group of cosponsors including two former dentists.
08.07.2015	U.S. President Barack Obama today signed into law Congressman Mike Simpson’s legislation creating three new Wilderness areas in Idaho. The legislation, The Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Jerry Peak Wilderness Additions Act (H.R. 1138), was signed earlier today in a signing ceremony at the White House. “I am grateful to President Obama for his signature on this important legislation and humbled by the tireless work of countless Idahoans that led to its passage,” said Simpson. “The Boulder White Clouds area is now protected, in perpetuity, by the gold standard of preservation designations. I am proud that this was accomplished through a truly collaborative process that produced an Idaho solution to decades of conflict and debate. Without the work of our many partners in this process, and especially the tireless efforts of Senator Jim Risch, today’s signing would not have been possible.” Specifically Simpson’s legislation will do the following: Sawtooth National Recreation Area: The Sawtooth National Forest would remain as the principle administrative body and the current management would remain intact under the existing SNRA law (PL 92-400) and the existing SNRA management and travel plans. The Challis BLM would remain the managers of the East Fork BLM and Salmon-Challis National Forest areas. Wilderness: Three new wilderness areas would be created totaling 275,665 acres. They are the Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness (88,079 acres), the White Clouds Wilderness (90,841 acres) and the Jim McClure-Jerry Peak Wilderness (117,040). The total wilderness acreage would be reduced by 36,968 acres from the original CIEDRA bill that would have created 332,928 acres. Multiple Use: Four wilderness study areas would be released back to multiple use: the Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area, the Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area, the Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area, the Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area and any USFS recommended wilderness not made wilderness totaling 155,003 acres. This is up 23,333 acres released from the original CIEDRA bill which totaled 131,670. Motorized Use: No roads that are currently open to vehicles, or trails that are currently open to two wheeled motorized use would be closed. The Grand Prize and Germania trails (including the ridge in between) and the Frog Lake Loop would be excluded from wilderness and remain open to two wheeled motorized use under the existing SNRA travel plan. The following higher elevation snowmobiling areas would remain open as allowed under the existing SNRA travel plan: 4th of July Basin, Washington Basin, Phyllis Lake Basin, Champion Lakes and Warm Springs Meadows. Mountain Bikes: All areas currently open to mountain bikes outside of the proposed wilderness will remain open. Under CIEDRA, the 4th of July trail would have been closed to mountain bikes and will now remain open. This allows the Pole Creek/Washington Basin/4th of July loops to remain open. The Germania/Grand Prize Corridor trails and all trails outside of the wilderness would remain open to mountain bikes subject to the SNRA travel plan. Grazing: Grazing plays an important role in the heritage and economies of rural Idaho and Custer County. Along the East Fork of the Salmon River, generational ranching families provide significant benefits in maintaining the historic character and nature of East Fork while providing significant conservation benefits to the land, including sustaining the wide, open spaces and un-fragmented landscapes of the East Fork valley. In order to provide another tool for these families to maintain their livelihoods, a provision has been included to provide permittees within and adjacent to the proposed wilderness areas with a way to help them remain viable with as little disruption as possible. Permittees with allotments within the boundaries of the “Boulder White Clouds Grazing Area Map” would be allowed to voluntarily retire their grazing permits and be eligible for compensation from a third party conservation group. With this compensation, it is hoped that the ranching families will be able to create more secure and certain opportunities for future generations. Support to Counties: Over $5 million in grants have been provided to Custer County and the surrounding Boulder-White Clouds communities for a community center, a county health clinic and EMT support, and improvements to Trail Creek Highway. Individual parcels of land will be conveyed to Custer and Blaine counties, and rural communities for public purposes the per latest CIEDRA bill. Recreation Support: Over $1.5 million in grants have been provided to the SNRA for trail maintenance and improvements, including maintenance and improvements to existing motorized trails and two existing trails to provide primitive wheelchair access, and for acquiring the land to build a mechanized bike/snowmobile access trail between Redfish Lake and Stanley.
08.04.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s legislation H.R. 1138, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Jerry Peak Wilderness Additions Act, today passed the U.S. Senate by unanimous consent. “The passage of this bill is a huge victory for Idahoans who’ve worked for over 15 years to create a land management plan for the Boulder White Clouds,” said Simpson. “I am grateful for each and every person who participated in crafting this solution over the years and I am especially grateful to Senator Jim Risch who worked relentlessly to see this pass the U.S. Senate today.” Specifically Simpson’s legislation will do the following: Sawtooth National Recreation Area: The Sawtooth National Forest would remain as the principle administrative body and the current management would remain intact under the existing SNRA law (PL 92-400) and the existing SNRA management and travel plans. The Challis BLM would remain the managers of the East Fork BLM and Salmon-Challis National Forest areas. Wilderness: Three new wilderness areas would be created totaling 275,665 acres. They are the Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness (88,079 acres), the White Clouds Wilderness (90,841 acres) and the Jim McClure-Jerry Peak Wilderness (117,040). The total wilderness acreage would be reduced by 36,968 acres from the original CIEDRA bill that would have created 332,928 acres. Multiple Use: Four wilderness study areas would be released back to multiple use: the Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area, the Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area, the Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area, the Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area and any USFS recommended wilderness not made wilderness totaling 155,003 acres. This is up 23,333 acres released from the original CIEDRA bill which totaled 131,670. Motorized Use: No roads that are currently open to vehicles, or trails that are currently open to two wheeled motorized use would be closed. The Grand Prize and Germania trails (including the ridge in between) and the Frog Lake Loop would be excluded from wilderness and remain open to two wheeled motorized use under the existing SNRA travel plan. The following higher elevation snowmobiling areas would remain open as allowed under the existing SNRA travel plan: 4th of July Basin, Washington Basin, Phyllis Lake Basin, Champion Lakes and Warm Springs Meadows. Mountain Bikes: All areas currently open to mountain bikes outside of the proposed wilderness will remain open. Under CIEDRA, the 4th of July trail would have been closed to mountain bikes and will now remain open. This allows the Pole Creek/Washington Basin/4th of July loops to remain open. The Germania/Grand Prize Corridor trails and all trails outside of the wilderness would remain open to mountain bikes subject to the SNRA travel plan. Grazing: Grazing plays an important role in the heritage and economies of rural Idaho and Custer County. Along the East Fork of the Salmon River, generational ranching families provide significant benefits in maintaining the historic character and nature of East Fork while providing significant conservation benefits to the land, including sustaining the wide, open spaces and un-fragmented landscapes of the East Fork valley. In order to provide another tool for these families to maintain their livelihoods, a provision has been included to provide permittees within and adjacent to the proposed wilderness areas with a way to help them remain viable with as little disruption as possible. Permittees with allotments within the boundaries of the “Boulder White Clouds Grazing Area Map” would be allowed to voluntarily retire their grazing permits and be eligible for compensation from a third party conservation group. With this compensation, it is hoped that the ranching families will be able to create more secure and certain opportunities for future generations. Support to Counties: Over $5 million in grants have been provided to Custer County and the surrounding Boulder-White Clouds communities for a community center, a county health clinic and EMT support, and improvements to Trail Creek Highway. Individual parcels of land will be conveyed to Custer and Blaine counties, and rural communities for public purposes the per latest CIEDRA bill. Recreation Support: Over $1.5 million in grants have been provided to the SNRA for trail maintenance and improvements, including maintenance and improvements to existing motorized trails and two existing trails to provide primitive wheelchair access, and for acquiring the land to build a mechanized bike/snowmobile access trail between Redfish Lake and Stanley.
07.27.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s legislation H.R. 1138, the Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Jerry Peak Wilderness Additions Act, today passed the U.S. House of Representatives without objection. “Today’s action by the U.S. House of Representatives is a great accomplishment for the thousands of Idahoans working to solve the Boulder White Clouds land management issue,” said Simpson. “I am extremely optimistic that we will continue to move this legislation forward to become law.” H.R. 1138 will establish certain wilderness areas in central Idaho and authorize various land conveyances involving the National Forest System land and Bureau of Land Management land in central Idaho. Specifically Simpson’s legislation will do the following: Sawtooth National Recreation Area: The Sawtooth National Forest would remain as the principle administrative body and the current management would remain intact under the existing SNRA law (PL 92-400) and the existing SNRA management and travel plans. The Challis BLM would remain the managers of the East Fork BLM and Salmon-Challis National Forest areas. Wilderness: Three new wilderness areas would be created totaling 275,665 acres. They are the Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness (88,079 acres), the White Clouds Wilderness (90,841 acres) and the Jim McClure-Jerry Peak Wilderness (117,040). The total wilderness acreage would be reduced by 36,968 acres from the original CIEDRA bill that would have created 332,928 acres. Multiple Use: Four wilderness study areas would be released back to multiple use: the Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area, the Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area, the Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area, the Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area and any USFS recommended wilderness not made wilderness totaling 155,003 acres. This is up 23,333 acres released from the original CIEDRA bill which totaled 131,670. Motorized Use: No roads that are currently open to vehicles, or trails that are currently open to two wheeled motorized use would be closed. The Grand Prize and Germania trails (including the ridge in between) and the Frog Lake Loop would be excluded from wilderness and remain open to two wheeled motorized use under the existing SNRA travel plan. The following higher elevation snowmobiling areas would remain open as allowed under the existing SNRA travel plan: 4th of July Basin, Washington Basin, Phyllis Lake Basin, Champion Lakes and Warm Springs Meadows. Mountain Bikes: All areas currently open to mountain bikes outside of the proposed wilderness will remain open. Under CIEDRA, the 4th of July trail would have been closed to mountain bikes and will now remain open. This allows the Pole Creek/Washington Basin/4th of July loops to remain open. The Germania/Grand Prize Corridor trails and all trails outside of the wilderness would remain open to mountain bikes subject to the SNRA travel plan. Grazing: Grazing plays an important role in the heritage and economies of rural Idaho and Custer County. Along the East Fork of the Salmon River, generational ranching families provide significant benefits in maintaining the historic character and nature of East Fork while providing significant conservation benefits to the land, including sustaining the wide, open spaces and un-fragmented landscapes of the East Fork valley. In order to provide another tool for these families to maintain their livelihoods, a provision has been included to provide permittees within and adjacent to the proposed wilderness areas with a way to help them remain viable with as little disruption as possible. Permittees with allotments within the boundaries of the “Boulder White Clouds Grazing Area Map” would be allowed to voluntarily retire their grazing permits and be eligible for compensation from a third party conservation group. With this compensation, it is hoped that the ranching families will be able to create more secure and certain opportunities for future generations. Support to Counties: Over $5 million in grants have been provided to Custer County and the surrounding Boulder-White Clouds communities for a community center, a county health clinic and EMT support, and improvements to Trail Creek Highway. Individual parcels of land will be conveyed to Custer and Blaine counties, and rural communities for public purposes the per latest CIEDRA bill. Recreation Support: Over $1.5 million in grants have been provided to the SNRA for trail maintenance and improvements, including maintenance and improvements to existing motorized trails and two existing trails to provide primitive wheelchair access, and for acquiring the land to build a mechanized bike/snowmobile access trail between Redfish Lake and Stanley. Senator Jim Risch has sponsored the bill (S. 538) in the U.S. Senate. Risch successfully held a hearing in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests and Mining on May 21, 2015. The Senate version will be marked up in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee this week.
07.23.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted this week for legislation to bring certainty under EPA’s recently finalized coal ash regulations. H.R. 1734, the Improving Coal Combustion Residuals Regulation Act of 2015, would put states in charge of implementing coal ash regulation in order to ensure that public health and the environment are protected while states’ rights are preserved. The bill passed by a vote of 258-166. Coal ash is the byproduct of coal combustion and is used to create roads, bridges, and buildings. It is also regularly recycled and used in construction materials. The EPA finalized a rule to regulate coal ash in April. Under H.R. 1734, states would have the authority to implement a coal ash permit program, with EPA implementing a permit program for states that choose not to establish their own. “While I am concerned about the practical implementation of EPA’s final rule, I do believe that reasonable regulations should be in place regarding coal ash,” said Simpson. “This legislation ensures that human health and the environment are protected without creating a new and unneeded regulatory system, leaving regulation and permitting to the states, where it belongs.” The bill is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
07.09.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s legislation H.R. 1138, Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Jerry Peak Wilderness Additions Act, today passed the U.S. House Resources Committee by unanimous consent. “To say I am pleased about the BWC bill moving forward would be an understatement,” said Simpson. “For more than a decade, Idahoans of all walks of life have worked tirelessly on this legislation. It is because of their dedication that we are one step closer to achieving our goal – creating an Idaho solution for managing the Boulder White Clouds.” H.R. 1138, which will establish certain wilderness areas in central Idaho and to authorize various land conveyances involving National Forest System land and Bureau of Land Management land in central Idaho, and for other purposes. The Sawtooth National Recreation Area and Jerry Peak Wilderness Additions Act will now be considered by the House of Representatives for final passage. Senator Jim Risch has sponsored the bill in the U.S. Senate, S. 538. Risch successfully held a hearing in the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Subcommittee on Public Lands, Forests and Mining on May 21, 2015. The senate bill is waiting to be considered in Senate Resources Committee for final mark-up. “I greatly appreciate the hard work that Senator Risch and his staff have done to move this legislation through the Senate. It’s been a great effort on both sides to keep the BWC bill moving forward,” said Simpson.
07.09.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today for legislation to promote healthier forests and more effective forest management. H.R. 2647, the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015, addresses the land management crisis created by catastrophic wildfires, promotes collaborative management projects, and modernizes the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. Simpson is a cosponsor of the legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 262-167. “The Forest Service faces a number of very real challenges when it comes to active land management, and I’m pleased with a number of steps that this bill takes to respond to those issues,” said Simpson. “Frivolous lawsuits paralyze federal land management agencies and put management decisions into the hands of the court rather than land managers. This legislation addresses several issues at the heart of this problem.” “Another major problem,” added Simpson, “is the cost of catastrophic wildfires. Addressing this issue is one of my top legislative priorities, and while this bill takes steps toward that goal, I’m going to continue working on my comprehensive solution to funding catastrophic wildfires.” Simpson has introduced H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which is bipartisan legislation with broad support intended to fix the budgeting process for wildfire suppression. His bill would treat catastrophic wildfires like similar natural disasters and would end the disastrous process known as “fire borrowing.” When fire suppression costs exceed the budget, the Forest Service is forced to rob from other non-fire accounts—including projects intended to reduce hazardous fuels and make forests less susceptible to fire—in order to keep fighting the fires. “Fire borrowing” was intended as an extraordinary measure, but as wildfires have grown more costly, it has become standard procedure—in fact, fire borrowing has been necessary in 7 of the past 10 years. H.R. 2647 includes language that would allow FEMA to transfer limited funds to the Forest Service and the BLM for fire suppression when the budget has been exhausted. “Until we address the problem of fire borrowing, funds intended for forest management, including hazardous fuels removal, timber harvest, and trail maintenance, will continue to pay to fire suppression,” said Simpson. “While I believe that Congress should take up the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act in order to fix a number of wildfire budgeting problems, I’m glad that this bill acknowledges these issues and begins to address them.”
07.08.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee’s decision to preserve ARS research programs including those at the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station (USSES) in Dubois, Idaho. Simpson, who requested the language in the FY16 Agriculture Appropriations Bill, is working with other western representatives to support the USSES. “I was disappointed when USDA attempted to close USSES last year and failed to provide prior notice to Congress and the sheep industry,” said Simpson. “I am very pleased this appropriations bill includes language that maintains the mission at Dubois. Because of its location and expertise, staff at the Dubois station are working on unique issues, including research on the domestic-wildlife interface that is vital to the sheep industry’s future.” Congressman Simpson has worked closely with USDA, University of Idaho, and members of the sheep industry throughout the process to ensure the long-term viability of the USSES and the economic activity it generates in the area. After the committee meeting Simpson said, “The bill passed out of committee today recognizes the station’s valuable work and is an important step towards ensuring the stakeholders and ARS come together to work on a viable, long-term future for USSES.” The Agriculture Appropriations bill was passed by the House Appropriations Committee on a voice vote.
06.23.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson recently supported final passage of two bills that would repeal two of the most unpopular and onerous provisions in Obamacare. H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2015, and H.R. 1190, the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act of 2015 were both passed by the House of Representatives with bipartisan support. The Protect Medical Innovation Act passed last Thursday, by a vote of 280-140. It repeals the harmful 2.3% excise tax on medical devices like pacemakers, CT scan machines, and defibrillators. “The medical device tax has already driven up costs for medical device manufacturers, many of whom have told me they must pass on those costs to the customer in order to stay in business,” said Congressman Simpson. “It is essentially a tax on medical care in this country. That is why I am pleased the House acted in a bipartisan manner to repeal this tax. We should encourage innovation, not tax it.” H.R. 1190, the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act eliminates the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), which is a board of unelected bureaucrats tasked with deciding payment rates for Medicare. Included in Obamacare is authority for IPAB to operate without public meetings or hearings, consider public input on proposals, or make its deliberations open to the public. “The IPAB is a provision of Obamacare that has concerned me since day one,” said Simpson. “We all know that without effective reform, Medicare as we know it will not be there for our children and grandchildren. Any changes to Medicare must happen in public, with broad input, and with the best interests of the American people in mind. Unfortunately, the IPAB is authorized to act in the completely opposite manner—with the power to impact American’s Medicare benefits behind closed doors and with little public or congressional oversight.” H.R. 1190 passed the House today by a vote of 244-154 and along with H.R. 160 will be considered in the U.S. Senate.
06.18.2015	Today the U.S. House of Representatives voted on a Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) bill and it passed by a vote of 218-208. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supports free trade and supported the legislation. TPA, known as “fast track,” is not a trade deal. TPA simply sets up a process for Congress to consider trade deals; in this case, Congress expects to consider the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP), which is still being negotiated. The TPA bill that the House voted on today guarantees that Congress will maintain a meaningful role in all trade negotiations through increased transparency and ensures that Congress will hold the administration accountable with effective oversight measures. If TPA is signed into law, Congress and the public will have 60 days to review any proposed trade deal before it will come up for a vote. Congress will retain the final say on passage or failure of trade deals, and Congress will reject any proposal that does not serve the best interests of the United States. “When Congress does consider trade agreements, we need to remember that 95% of the world market is outside of our borders,” said Simpson. “Participating in trade deals is good for the American economy and good for increasing employment here. Americans need to be the ones writing the rules for international trade, not leaving it up to other countries and risk being left behind in the global economy. Members of Congress can’t just claim to be supportive of free trade at home—we must support it here in Washington with our votes.” Today’s vote follows last week’s three votes in the House related to trade. Although fast track passed by a vote of 219-211 last week, it could not advance because it was part of a package sent by the Senate that didn’t pass overall. Congressman Simpson voted in support of all four trade measures. The TPA bill that passed the House today will now move to the Senate for further consideration.
06.16.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today protected Idaho priorities in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY16. The bill, which sets out the budget for the Department of the Interior, the Forest Service, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), was marked up by the full House Appropriations Committee. Simpson, who sits on the subcommittee, defended a number of important provisions in the bill that protect western interests, including language preventing the EPA’s recently-finalized rule expanding federal jurisdiction over the Clean Water Act. During the markup, Simpson successfully fought off an amendment intended to strike this language, claiming that the only certainty that the EPA has provided with its new rule is the certainty that all water will eventually be subject to Clean Water Act regulation. “There is no way that you cannot eventually take this rule to say that it doesn’t impact groundwater, because groundwater is connected to other waters,” Simpson said during the markup. “The EPA has gone way overboard beyond what Congress ever intended with the Clean Water Act.” Simpson also defeated an amendment to strike three sections of the bill addressing the Endangered Species Act. The bill included a provision similar to Simpson’s 2011 language that reinstated the Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision to remove wolves from the endangered species list that applies to gray wolves in Wyoming and the Great Lakes. Wolf populations in both areas have vastly exceeded recovery goals. “When the Endangered Species Act was originally passed, it was broadly supported,” said Simpson. “But today it isn’t doing what it was intended to do. Instead, interest groups are using the ESA to control land and water by suing federal agencies over each and every decision they make. The ESA hasn’t been reauthorized for over 25 years, and Congress needs to update this law.” The bill included a number of important Idaho priorities, including full funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT). The bill also fully funds wild land fire accounts at the 10-year average, providing $3.6 billion for both Forest Service and DOI fire-fighting accounts, a $52 million increase over FY15, and a $75 million increase for hazardous fuels management. The bill passed the full committee and now awaits consideration on the floor of the House of Representatives.
06.11.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded passage of H.R. 2685, the FY16 Defense Appropriations bill, which funds the Department of Defense and fulfills the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense. Crucially, the bill provides funding for the A-10 Thunderbolt II, which is based at the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard at Gowen Field in Boise, and is essential to the mission there. In FY15, the Cromnibus denied the administration’s request to retire any A-10 close-air support aircraft. “I am very pleased this bill shows support for the A-10 and recognizes the unique and valuable contributions the aircraft provides to our armed forces,” said Simpson. “By ensuring the A-10 remains available for close air support, we are responding to the needs of the service members that operate them and to the brave men and women on the ground that rely on them. While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” Congressman Simpson has been working with Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter to preserve, extend and expand the mission of the Idaho National Guard. H.R. 2685 also prohibits the transfer of AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National Guard to active Army in FY16. The bill also provides for a 2.3% pay raise for over 1.3 million active-duty troops and nearly 820,000 Guard, and reserve troops. H.R. 2685 passed the House with a bipartisan vote of 278-149.
06.10.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported final passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which passed the House 216 -210 late last night. The bill includes Simpson’s language increasing truck weights on Idaho Interstate Highways to 129,000 pounds. The increase, above the current allowance of 105,500 pounds, puts Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highway system, which already allows 129,000 pound trucks. “Last year we came closer than ever to this legislation becoming a reality,” said Congressman Simpson. “It is a common sense reform that not only puts Idaho on equal footing with its neighbors, but actually extends our system’s life by making it work better.” A higher weight limit means trucks must have more axels than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that there is less weight on each axel than a standard truck. It also would reduce the number of trucks on the road. The language comes after completion of a comprehensive ten year pilot study in Idaho which found the weight increase would have no significant impact on roadway safety, nor would it impact the structural soundness of Idaho’s bridges or pavement. “Last night was a big step forward for Idaho business and agriculture,” said Simpson. “This bill has long been sought by the Governor, the Idaho State Legislature, the Idaho Transportation Department, and business and agriculture throughout Idaho because it will remove the competitive disadvantage Idaho businesses face and generate significant economic activity.” Idaho’s current weight allowance is significantly less than that of neighboring states Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada, as well as British Columbia, Canada, causing difficulty for producers who ship goods on the Interstate across and into Idaho. Additionally, heavier trucks are currently allowed to travel all throughout Idaho, but not where they should be travelling – on Idaho’s Interstates. Instead, they are navigating state highways, which are often more narrow, with less lanes and more curves and hills than the Interstate. “This bill puts heavy trucks where they belong, on the Interstate,” added Simpson. “For centuries, our transportation system has been the backbone of our economy, and it is today. Our ability to move goods and people safely and efficiently across the country has made our economy the greatest in world history. But today that system is aging, reaching the end of its life in many cases or being stretched beyond what was originally intended. We need to implement common sense reforms to extend our system’s life by making it work even better. This language does that.” The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill will now need to be conferenced with a Senate version of the same bill before it can be signed into law by the President.
05.27.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today issued the following statement following the EPA’s announcement finalizing the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. “I find it extremely disappointing, though not surprising, that the EPA has moved forward on this controversial rule in spite of widespread opposition from Members of Congress, the states, and the American public,” said Simpson. “In Idaho, water is life, and I don’t intend to sit back and watch the EPA take control of state waters, leaving Idaho farmers, ranchers, and landowners at the mercy of federal regulations.” Simpson chairs the appropriations subcommittee overseeing the budget for the US Army Corps of Engineers and sits on the subcommittee overseeing the budget for the EPA. In those roles, he has authored language passed by the House that would prevent the EPA and the US Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their regulatory jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. He has also cosponsored a number of legislative provisions addressing this issue.
05.15.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for FY16, which includes a provision delaying the listing of the greater sage-grouse as an endangered species. Simpson supported language included in NDAA that would prevent the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service from listing the bird for ten years, giving adequate time for effective state management plans to be developed and put into effect. The bill passed 269-151. “Given the impact that a decision to list sage-grouse would have on Idaho, it is imperative that we get it right. That means working closely with state and local officials to develop management plans based on sound science,” Simpson said. “Unfortunately, there is growing concern that the BLM and Fish and Wildlife Service are ignoring state input and moving forward with new management plans that are based on a fear of being sued. At the beginning of this process, the states were invited to partner with the federal government. But today, with just weeks left before the new management plans are to be revealed, they feel they’ve been locked out of the process. This language makes sure that state voices are heard in sage-grouse management and conservation efforts.” The language in the NDAA bill would prevent the sage-grouse from being listed for ten years and put state-approved management plans into place for at least five years. Simpson has cosponsored similar legislation to ensure that states have an integral role in sage-grouse management. He authored language to delay the listing decision for one year that was included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act for FY15. “It is worth noting that the deadline for a sage-grouse listing decision was imposed by the courts, not based on science,” said Simpson. “It is far better to take enough time to make a sound scientific decision rooted in collaboration than to make a rushed decision based on an arbitrary deadline.”
05.13.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of legislation to rein in the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) attempts to take control of state waters last night. H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, would require the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw the controversial proposed rule expanding the definition of “waters of the United States” and develop a new rule after consultation with state and local governments and interested parties. Simpson is a cosponsor of the bill, which passed the House by an overwhelming majority of 261-155. “The EPA has received a record number of comments on this proposed rule, and during the 113th Congress over half of the members of House of Representatives registered their opposition to it. This doesn’t surprise me one bit,” said Simpson. “I have long known that expanding the reach of EPA regulations to ground water, farm ponds, and ditches would devastate rural Idaho, and I have been fighting against the EPA’s growing regulatory appetite for years. Passage of this bill is an important step in the right direction.” The controversial proposed rule would expand the definition of “waters of the United States” by removing the word “navigable.” As a result, federal regulation under the Clean Water Act could apply to virtually all water, including ground water. States currently regulate non-navigable water. Simpson chairs the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee and sits on the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversee the budgets of the Army Corps and the EPA, respectively. He has authored numerous provisions to stop the flawed rule, including most recently a provision in the House Energy and Water Appropriations Act for FY16 that would prohibit any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States” proposal. H.R. 1732 is now before the U.S. Senate for consideration.
05.01.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the House passage of the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, which reverses proposed cuts to Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. The legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with a final vote of 240-177. “I am pleased to report that the Energy and Water bill rejects cuts proposed by the Obama Administration to nuclear energy programs and increases funding for many of the vital research efforts at INL,” said Simpson. “The funding increases we have been able to secure will build on our previous work, and continue to make a real impact accelerating nuclear innovation programs and addressing much needed infrastructure enhancements at INL. These investments will make sure nuclear energy remains an important component of our nation's energy mix.” The FY 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $936 million, an increase of $102.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $28.5 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $936 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $218.5 million – a $12.5 million increase over last year and $6.7 million above the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $126.1 million – an increase of $22.1 million over fiscal year 2015. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $111 million – an increase of $10.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $25 million above the President’s request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $62.5 million. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $141 million – an increase of $8.7 million above fiscal year 2015 and $33.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $141 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $60.1 million, the same as fiscal year 2015; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $55 million, $16.5 million below fiscal year 2015. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $71.2 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill provides $390 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level of $390 million is an increase of $10.5 million above fiscal year 2015 and $30 million above the President’s request, which will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. There is also an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $35.4 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “This is a responsible bill that prioritizes national security needs and improving our nation's infrastructure within tight budget caps,” Simpson said. “As we do every year, we worked hard to incorporate perspectives from all members, and the result is legislation that makes critical investments in the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also funding important infrastructure projects and research that will increase U.S. economic competitiveness and growth." The bill will be conferenced with the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations bill later this year. The complete Committee Report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-114-hr-fy2016-energywater.pdf
04.30.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman, has led a successful effort to defeat an amendment that would have stripped a section of the Energy and Water Appropriations bill prohibiting any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States" proposal. The proposed rule would expand the reach of the Clean Water Act by replacing the term “navigable waters” with the term “waters of the United States.” Non-navigable waters are currently regulated by the states. Striking this term means that the Act could be broadly interpreted to included everything within a state, including ground water. Late last night Chairman Simpson fought the amendment on the House floor stating, “Many people believed that if the waters were not regulated under the Clean Water Act, they were unregulated. Not true. They are regulated by the states. And that’s how it should remain. . . While there may be a desire for clarity on federal jurisdiction, providing clarity does not trump the need to stay within the limits of the law. The proposed rule would expand federal jurisdiction far beyond what was ever intended by the Clean Water Act. The provision in the Energy and Water bill does not weaken the Clean Water Act; it stops the Administration from expanding federal jurisdiction. For those reasons I strongly oppose this amendment and encourage my colleagues to vote no.” The amendment was offered by Representative Don Beyer (D-VA) last night, and failed on a voice vote. Consideration of the House Energy and Water Appropriations bill will continue today, with a vote on final passage expected on Friday, May 1st. To view a video of Chairman Simpson’s speech, click here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UjLy2IR4RKc&feature=youtu.be
04.28.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has once again secured language in the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill to allow trucks weighing up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho Interstates. The current weight limit in Idaho of 105,500 pounds blocks trucks from entering the Interstate system, instead, relegating them to certain state highways or outside of Idaho completely. Idaho’s neighbors Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada all allow higher weights than Idaho, putting Idaho’s most important job creators, particularly agriculture, at a competitive disadvantage. “My language, which I first introduced in 2008, has been sought by the State of Idaho for years, and I am pleased to see it included in the House draft today,” said Simpson. “It would simply put Idaho on a level playing field with its neighbors and at the same time be a major generator of economic activity. I am thankful to THUD Appropriations Chairman Diaz-Balart for including this provision in the bill.” Simpson’s language comes after completion of a ten-year comprehensive Idaho study which found the weight increase would have no significant impact on roadway safety, nor would it significantly affect the structural soundness of Idaho’s bridges or pavement. In fact, heavier trucks have more axels than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that it has less impact on the roadway and allows the truck to brake more efficiently and stop more abruptly if needed. The weight increase would also take one of five trucks off the road. “I am well aware that when people hear that there will be heavier trucks on the highway they become concerned. It seems logical that a heavier truck would be more dangerous. However, that is not the case,” said Simpson. “These heavier trucks have been proven to be safe in Idaho. They are already using our state highways today. This language will simply allow these same trucks to use the Interstate. It takes them off of smaller roadways and out of communities and puts them on the Interstate, where they belong. The THUD bill will be marked up by the THUD subcommittee this week, and will then go to the full Appropriations Committee for consideration, before going to the House floor. Last year, the bill, with Simpson’s Idaho language included, passed in the House of Representatives, but it did not survive negotiations with the Senate.
04.22.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Fiscal Year 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill reverses proposed cuts to Idaho National Laboratory (INL), the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which passed the bill through the full House Appropriations Committee today, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “I am pleased to report that the Energy and Water bill rejects cuts proposed by the Obama Administration to nuclear energy programs and increases funding for many of the vital research efforts at INL,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “The funding increases we have been able to secure in the last two years have made a real impact accelerating nuclear innovation programs and addressing much needed infrastructure enhancements at INL. These investments will support efforts to make sure nuclear energy remains an important component of our nation's energy mix.” The FY 2016 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $936 million, an increase of $102.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $28.5 million above the President’s request. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the overall $936 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at INL, is funded at $218.5 million – a $12.5 million increase over last year and $6.7 million above the President’s request. INL’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $126.1 million – an increase of $22.1 million over fiscal year 2015. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $111 million – an increase of $10.6 million above fiscal year 2015 and $25 million above the President’s request. Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $62.5 million. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $40 million. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $141 million – an increase of $8.7 million above fiscal year 2015 and $33.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $141 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor. Within the Fuel Cycle Research and Development program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $60.1 million, the same as fiscal year 2015; and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $55 million, $16.5 million below fiscal year 2015. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $71.2 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $390 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with INL. The funding level of $390 million is an increase of $10.5 million above fiscal year 2015 and $30 million above the President’s request, which will allow the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill contains funding to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application, ensuring the federal government will meet its commitments to Idaho and other states and dispose of used nuclear fuel. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $35.4 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “From water projects across the nation to critical energy research and increased national security, the Energy and Water bill has a wide reach,” Chairman Simpson said. “This is a responsible bill that prioritizes national security needs and improving our nation's infrastructure within tight budget caps,” Chairman Simpson said. “It makes critical investments in the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also funding important infrastructure projects and research that will increase U.S. economic competitiveness and growth." The bill is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. The complete Committee Report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-114-hr-fy2016-energywater.pdf
04.16.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored legislation to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to withdraw their rule changing the definition of “waters of the United States.” H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015, would pull back the flawed rule and ensure that any new rule reflects the input of stakeholders and State and local officials. Simpson chairs the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the Army Corps, and serves on the subcommittee that oversees the EPA budget. “I have long been opposed to EPA’s efforts to expand its authority under the Clean Water Act because of the devastating impact it would have on Idaho’s rural towns, local governments, and farmers and ranchers,” said Simpson. “What has become abundantly clear since this rule was proposed is that it would create huge problems throughout the country as well—in fact, last year I joined more than half of my colleagues in the House opposing this rule, and EPA has received a record number of comments from the public. H.R. 1732 calls on the agencies to start over, and this time they need to make sure that they respond to the local concerns.” The proposed rule would expand the reach of the Clean Water Act by replacing the term “navigable waters” with the term “waters of the United States.” Non-navigable waters are currently regulated by the states. Striking this term means that the Act could be broadly interpreted to included everything within a state, including ground water. Simpson has authored language included in previous appropriations acts to prevent EPA from removing the term “navigable waters” from the definition of waters subject to EPA and Army Corps regulation under the Clean Water Act. H.R. 1732 is currently before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.
04.15.2015	We are always impressed with the Idahoans who apply to attend United States military academies, and we are honored to nominate deserving young women and men to the academies. If you are interested in receiving an excellent education and an opportunity to develop strong character and leadership abilities, while serving our country, we encourage you to attend an annual Service Academy Day to learn about the application process, academy life and the benefits of attending a service academy. This month, we are hosting two Academy Days in north Idaho to provide students, parents and counselors with information about each academy and how to obtain a congressional nomination. The Coeur d’Alene Academy Day will be held on Thursday, April 16, 2015 at North Idaho College, Student Union Driftwood Bay Room, 1000 West Garden Avenue. The Lewiston Academy Day will be held on Thursday, April 30, 2015, at Lewiston High School, 1114 9th Avenue. Registration for both events starts at 6:00 PM and the programs run from 6:30 PM to 8:00 PM. Those interested in attending either session are asked to please RSVP to Karen Roetter via email at karen_roetter@crapo.senate.gov, or by phone at 208-664-5490. The purpose of these events is to connect students and parents with academy liaisons, cadets, midshipmen, recruiters and congressional staff to help answer any questions about the congressional nomination process for the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York; the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado; and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York. While a congressional nomination is not needed to attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, representatives have been invited to share information about this school as well. Acceptance into these academies provides students with a tuition-free, four-year undergraduate education. Graduates have jobs after graduation, as they are commissioned as officers and spend a minimum of five years on duty. Additionally, their education and training make them competitive for graduate programs and future jobs. High school seniors interested in attending an academy should submit completed application packets by November 30, 2015. In addition to the short application, an essay, three letters of recommendation, ACT/SAT scores, a transcript and class rank at the end of the applicant’s junior year of high school, and a completed principal/guidance counselor form are required. Applicants are also encouraged to apply to all offices involved in academy nominations, including both of your U.S. Senators, your U.S. Representative and the Vice President. The application and complete packet must be in by November 30th of the applicant’s senior year of high school. High school graduates who are seventeen years old, but not yet twenty-three, can apply by July 1 of the year they would enter an academy. Those who are interested but unable to attend an Academy Day can access information regarding the application process on each of our websites, or by contacting one of the following: Karen Roetter, (Senator Mike Crapo), (208) 664-5490 Frances Hasenoehrl , (Senator Jim Risch), (208) 743-0792 Judy Morbeck, (Congressman Raúl Labrador), (208) 667-0127 Linda Culver, (Congressman Mike Simpson), (208) 734-7219 A nomination is not an acceptance into an academy. It is the first step in the process. Applicants will be notified in mid-December if they receive a nomination, but the individual academies make the decisions about actual acceptances. Those completing a nomination application must also open a file with the academies. Idaho has many promising young leaders, and we wish all those who are interested in this path the best in the process. You may access each delegation member’s website through the following links: http://www.crapo.senate.gov/; http://www.risch.senate.gov/; /; and http://www.labrador.house.gov/.
04.15.2015	Today is Tax Day and the U.S. House of Representatives is addressing important tax measures this week that directly impact families across the country. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is supporting The ‘Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015’ (H.R. 1105), State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act of 2015 (H.R. 622), Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act (H.R. 650), and the Mortgage Choice Act (H.R. 685). “Our current tax code hampers economic growth. If we truly want to get our budget deficit under control, we need to get our economy going again and that means addressing our tax system,” said Simpson. “Congress needs to continue to work towards comprehensive tax reform, and this week the House is moving legislation that begins to show the enormous benefit that a modern and updated tax code can have on our economy.” The following legislation is before the U.S. House of Representatives this week: The Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, H.R. 1105 – The estate tax is devastating to family businesses and farms and it is simply unfair. Families spend too much time and money planning for the estate tax rather than focusing on growing their business. If this legislation is signed into law, the estate tax and the generation skipping transfer tax would be repealed. Will be considered 4/16/2015 State and Local Sales Tax Deduction Fairness Act of 2015, H.R. 622 - Currently an individual may claim an itemized deduction for income and property taxes paid to State and local governments. This legislation would make these itemized deductions permanent. Will be considered 4/16/2015 Preserving Access to Manufactured House Act, H.R. 650 – The Dodd-Frank Act regulatory burden affects consumer’s access to affordable credit. This legislation would modify that Dodd-Frank Act to ensure that consumers can continue to have access to affordable manufactured housing by altering the definition of a ‘high-cost mortgage.’ Passed 4/14/2015 by a vote of 263 – 162. The Mortgage Choice Act, H.R. 685 – This legislation would provide clarity to the calculation of points and fees in mortgage transactions, allowing more loans to be classified and Qualified Mortgages and increasing options for borrowers. Passed 4/14/2015 by a vote of 286 – 140.
03.31.2015	Last week, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson introduced H.R. 1719, the Geothermal Production Expansion Act of 2015. H.R. 1719 makes a small but important change to current law to facilitate the development of geothermal energy on public lands. H.R. 1719 would allow for expansion of renewable geothermal energy, while at the same time protecting the national interests in receiving fair market value for energy leases on federal lands. The intent of the legislation is to protect legitimate geothermal developers from speculators by allowing companies that have discovered geothermal resources through capital-intensive drilling to obtain a one-time noncompetitive lease on up to one square mile of adjoining federal lands. “Geothermal projects on federal lands offers incredible potential for reliable, clean, low-cost energy production,” said Simpson. “Given these unique and valuable capabilities, I was pleased to offer legislation that encourages expanded geothermal production in a fair and efficient manner. As the United States continues to focus on promoting domestic and diverse energy solutions, I am confident that geothermal can be a strong contributor to the portfolio.” Congressman Simpson is joined in support of H.R. 1719, by cosponsor Peter DeFazio (D-OR). In the Senate, Ron Wyden (D-OR) introduced the legislation with Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch as cosponsors.
03.26.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. It passed the House with strong support from both Republicans and Democrats by 392-37. The bill strengthens Medicare and ensures senior’s access to care by repealing the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) and replacing it with an updated system that will work better, and save money over the long term. The SGR is a formula that determines payment amounts to doctors who treat Medicare patients. “Repealing the SGR has been the top priority for almost every Idaho medical professional who I have met with for years. Before today’s vote, Congress had simply kicked the can down the road a total of 17 times, at great cost to taxpayers and over the strong objections of the health community,” said Simpson. “Though the full cost of the bill is not covered in the first ten years, it is important to look at the big picture when you are reforming major programs like Medicare. The right-leaning American Action Forum completed an exhaustive study that found the bill results in $295 billion of spending reductions by 2035.” Also included in this package is a two-year extension of The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) which provides an alternative source of education funding for counties with a high percentage of national forests and fulfills the federal government’s responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal lands. “My western colleagues and I have been working tirelessly to ensure Congress address the immediate needs of Secure Rural Schools payments and I was thrilled that H.R. 2 offered the solution,” said Simpson. “By voting yes today, western members were able to lend their support to one of the most important programs to our rural communities. We must now turn our attention to enacting a long-term and sustainable solution that doesn’t stick Idaho’s rural counties with the annual uncertainty of an up or down vote from Congress.” “Though H.R. 2 is not perfect, you would have to look long and hard to find a reason to vote no,” added Simpson. “This kind of bill represents exactly what the American people want to see out of their elected representatives. They want us to fix problems, not shout across the aisle and point fingers.” Congressman Simpson has long been an advocate for SRS and signed a letter last October urging House leadership to secure full funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and SRS. H.R. 2 now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
03.18.2015	“In the world of politics, some of the toughest moments are when you find yourself disagreeing with those you consider friends. “That has never been truer for me than in my current difference of opinion with former Governors Phil Batt and Cecil Andrus. They are opposing two INL shipments containing just 200 pounds of commercial nuclear fuel because of a delay related to the 1995 Settlement Agreement. The shipments represent the beginning of a research project slated to bring tens of millions of dollars to Idaho. “My difference of opinion with the two former Governors is NOT over their desire to protect Idaho’s environment or the integrity of the Agreement. Instead, it’s over their apparent desire to return to an ugly, contentious, and unproductive era of fighting with the DOE instead of maintaining a more constructive and beneficial partnership. “Governors Batt and Andrus were not only correct, but courageous, in taking the federal government to task in the 1990’s over long-running failures to remediate INL after decades of secrecy and environmental contamination. Their fight with DOE not only produced an agreement for which we are all grateful today, it actually facilitated the eventual revitalization of the lab and its research mission in Eastern Idaho. “Early in my Congressional service, the Bush Administration proposed cleaning up and “closing down” INL. Idahoans were rightfully outraged and a multi-year, multi-pronged effort to “save the lab” began in earnest. “The result of that effort, after years of hard work and relationship mending, included not only the accelerated cleanup of nuclear contamination, but unprecedented new research opportunities. A decade later, INL is approaching $1 billion a year in business volume and cleanup has progressed in ways hard to imagine back in 1995. New buildings have sprung up across INL and its scientists have gone from working in old garages to doing research in world class facilities. “It's important to note that INL isn’t just a world leader in nuclear energy research. Its internationally-significant missions include national and homeland security, renewable and alternative energy, grid protection, cutting edge chemistry, securing nuclear materials across the globe, and much, much more. The lab employs thousands of Idahoans directly and is responsible indirectly for the careers of tens of thousands more. And it’s a strong partner with our state’s universities – a partnership that benefits all Idahoans. “Most frustrating for me, when thinking about the recent statements of the former Governors, is that none of this would have been possible without their work and courage—yet all of it is potentially at risk if they continue to insist on moving backward. “You see, there is no such thing as a lead nuclear energy research laboratory that can’t access nuclear materials on which to do its research. The two former Governors know this – and yet their words suggest they haven’t taken the time or effort to understand what is truly going on at INL. “With that in mind, I invite them to spend some time at INL – they haven’t been there in years. I want them to see the impressive facilities where this research is being done. I want them to meet the scientists who conduct this important research. I want them to view the safeguards in place to ensure the work is done safely and with absolutely no risk to the environment, or our life-sustaining aquifer. “I encourage them to embrace the new, productive, collaborative, and exciting relationship the State of Idaho has built with the Department of Energy over the last decade. And I want them to fully appreciate their own essential role in making it all possible.”
03.18.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson this week supported a series of bills to bring greater transparency and accountability to actions by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). H.R. 1029, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015, and H.R. 1030, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015, were both passed by the House of Representatives with bipartisan support. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act, which would make a number of reforms to the EPA’s Science Advisory Board to ensure that EPA’s decisions are made on qualified and independent science, complements Simpson’s efforts to address concerns about the EPA’s Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) program. In recent years the IRIS program has drawn harsh criticism from the science community. H.R. 1029 takes action based on findings from a National Academy of Sciences study that Simpson commissioned in 2011 when he chaired the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “The public needs to be able to trust that EPA’s policy decisions are based on good science and not swayed by politics,” said Simpson. “When we first examined the IRIS system, we found a broken process that lacked scientific accountability, and I’m pleased that Congress has taken up addition efforts to improve transparency and accountability and increase public participation in EPA’s decision making process.” The Secret Science Reform Act would ensure that EPA is accountable and transparent to taxpayers by making scientific data used by the agency available to the public. This bill addresses the lack of transparency often demonstrated by the Obama Administration when issuing new regulations that have significant impacts on the American people. “I have been a strong advocate for strict EPA oversight so Americans can avoid the burdensome regulations that federal agencies far too often create,” said Simpson. “Without public availability of scientific data, there is no way for the science community to participate in a fully vetted process. These bills would bring much needed transparency and accountability to the EPA.” H.R. 1029 passed in the House of Representatives on Tuesday by a vote of 236-181 and H.R. 1030 passed today by a vote of 241-175. Both pieces of legislation now head to the Senate for consideration.
03.17.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, today held two hearings to discuss budget issues with officials from the Department of Energy. The first hearing was focused on the Department of Energy’s Applied Energy Programs, with Assistant Secretaries from the Offices of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Nuclear Energy, Fossil Energy, and Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability testifying. The second hearing was focused on the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, with Acting Director Dr. Patricia Dehmer testifying. Dr. Franklin Orr, Under Secretary for Science and Energy testified at both hearings. In the first hearing, Simpson discussed the Nuclear Energy University Program and the importance of ensuring a strong future nuclear workforce, the Idaho National Lab’s Advanced Test Reactor’s maintenance and upgrade needs, and funding for Safeguards and Security at the Idaho National Lab. He also noted that the Obama Administration has once again proposed a significant increase for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy while proposing to reduce Fossil Energy and Nuclear Energy. “I agree that an ‘all of the above’ approach should fund research in new energy sources, but we also need to ensure we are efficiently and effectively using our existing sources,” said Simpson. “Last year, Fossil and Nuclear energy sources provided about 85 percent of all the electricity produced in this country. Just increasing the production efficiency by one percent of any fossil or nuclear fuel source would have a tremendous effect on net electricity generation. A true ‘all of the above’ approach would not make these sources the lowest priorities of the Department of Energy.” In the Office of Science hearing, Simpson talked about working towards scientific breakthroughs with a flat budget, project management at the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER) project, and practical examples of how investments in science programs are a good use of taxpayer dollars. “The Office of Science is the single largest supporter of basic research in the United States, and its activities have resulted in some of the most important scientific breakthroughs of the twentieth century,” said Simpson. “Today we’re focusing quite a bit on the challenges to your office within a limited budget, but it’s important to remember the remarkable work supported by the Office of Science that happens day in and day out, both at the national labs and at American universities and other institutions that receive grants.” After the hearings, Simpson said, “Our budget situation will require us to make difficult decisions. I am mindful of the importance that these programs hold not just for American industrial competitiveness, but also for the comfort, safety, and well-being of all of our constituents. But we need to set careful priorities and do more with the limited resources available, and always remain mindful of what the role of the private sector is or should be in making these investments.”
03.16.2015	“The American people used their votes last year to demonstrate a strong objection to gridlock while giving a modest endorsement to the direction Congressional Republicans offered as an alternative to Democrat policies in Washington. Their confidence, however, was conditional on an expectation that Republicans would work aggressively to move our country forward. “Unfortunately, too many of my colleagues in Congress see the election much differently. They view gridlock and obstructionism as a means to appease the politically pure and point fingers at anyone who seeks a different solution. While I agree with my colleagues on the conservative principles in this debate, I’d rather be advancing solutions to stop the President’s overreaching policies and putting forward Republican answers that thwart the Administration’s ability to rule from the executive branch. “Instead, a faction of my Republican colleagues see obstructionist tactics like shutting down the government, or one of its most important agencies, as just another tool in the construction of a manufactured crises. This small segment of Republicans voted to shut down the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) in a vote two weeks ago at the deadline – and they represent the most irresponsible, unrealistic, and ineffective segment of our Republican caucus. “Even worse, they’re imposing a losing strategy while we are actually winning in the courts – the legitimate, and Constitutional, venue for resolving disputes between the executive and legislative branches. “These members have no credible policy proposals to stop the President’s unlawful actions, instead they hold our national security hostage with shutdown threats, and then label any Member who opposes their strategy as “capitulating” to the President. “They represent a segment of our caucus that would rather shut down the government than show the American people we can actually govern. They represent a segment of our caucus that would preach border security while defunding border patrol. They represent a segment of our caucus that defies the Constitution while preaching a strict adherence to its very principles. They represent a segment of our caucus that wrongly thought a government shutdown would spell the end of Obamacare. They got their shutdown. But we still have Obamacare. “The majority of the Republican caucus has given ample opportunities for this loud minority to play-out their strategy. However, this small faction has failed to achieve any conservative victories and led our party so far astray that the Democrats have been able to exert influence in the absence of a united Republican party. “My pro-shutdown colleagues are the same folks who pushed for immigration reform only to abandon the notion – leaving the American people on hold with a broken system, ineffective border, and overreaching President looking for any excuse to write executive actions. “My pro-shutdown colleagues project Constitutional principles but they’re conveniently forgetting their own Constitutional responsibilities to fund the U.S. Government and, ‘provide for the common defense.’ “My pro-shutdown colleagues supported John Boehner for Speaker, before opposing him, then supporting him again, and now criticizing him. By undermining Republican leadership at every turn, the pro-shutdown minority has compromised our ability to pass conservative priorities that focuses on governing efficiently and effectively. “The truth is my Republican colleagues and I have a critical and extremely short window of time to prove to the American people that we can govern responsibly. This brief window is our chance to demonstrate to the American people that they should look to a Republican as the next President of the United States. It’s also our chance to show that we prefer the Ronald Reagan model of taking 70-80% of what we can get…and then fighting united to get the rest in the future.”
03.04.2015	The Idaho Congressional Delegation is hosting a series of Academy Days to inform high school students about the opportunities at the U.S. Service Academies. A total of seven events will be held across the state. Students and their parents can attend an event in the following cities: Boise, McCall, Twin Falls, Coeur d’Alene, Soda Springs, Idaho Falls, and Lewiston. Service Academies offer high school graduates several opportunities beyond serving their country. Students will obtain a first-rate undergraduate education, a job upon graduation, and the ability to purse advance degrees all while receiving tuition, room and board, healthcare and a monthly salary. Boise Academy Day, April 1, 2015 Idaho State House – 700 West Jefferson – Lincoln Auditorium 11:00 Registration/11:30 Presentation RSVP to Tim Petersen at (208) 345-7985 or tim_petersen@risch.senate.gov by March 27th McCall/Donnelly Academy Day, April 10, 2015 McCall/Donnelly High School – 401 North Mission, McCall 4:00 Registration/4:30 Presentation RSVP to Tim Petersen at (208) 345-7985 or tim_petersen@risch.senate.gov by April 3rd Twin Falls Academy Day, April 11, 2015 KMVT Community Room – 1100 Blue Lakes Blvd, Twin Falls 1:00 Registration/1:30 Presentation RSVP to Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219 or linda.culver@mail.house.gov by April 3rd Coeur d’Alene Academy Day, April 16, 2015 North Idaho College – 1000 West Garden, CDA Student Union – Driftwood Bay Room 6:30 Registration/7:00 Presentation RSVP to Karen Roetter at (208) 664-5490 or Karen_roetter@crapo.senate.gov by April 9th Soda Springs Academy Day, April 23, 2015 Soda Springs High School – 300 East First North, Soda Springs 4:00 Registration/4:30 Presentation RSVP to Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219 or linda.culver@mail.house.gov by April 16th Idaho Falls Academy Day, April 24, 2015 Bonneville High School, 3165 East Iona Road, Idaho Falls 3:30 Registration/4:00 Presentation RSVP to Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219 or linda.culver@mail.house.gov by April 17th Lewiston Academy Day, April 30, 2015 Lewiston High School – 1114 9th Avenue, Lewiston 6:30 Registration/ 7:00 Presentation RSVP to Karen Roetter at (208) 664-5490 or Karen_roetter@crapo.senate.gov by April 23rd Events are open to high school students and their parents or guardians, and middle and high school counselors and educators. Information will be provided about all five Service Academies as well as the Congressional nomination process. To learn more about specific requirements, visit the Idaho Delegation webpages: Senator Mike Crapo, http://www.crapo.senate.gov Senator James E. Risch, http://www.risch.senate.gov Congressman Mike Simpson, http://simpson.house.gov Congressman Raul Labrador, http://labrador.house.gov
03.03.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today in favor of legislation that will fully fund the Department of Homeland Security through the remainder of the 2015 fiscal year. At the same time, Simpson is urging his colleagues to allow efforts opposing the President’s executive actions on immigration to continue in the courts. Simpson made clear that while he strongly opposes President Obama’s unilateral and illegal action on immigration, he cannot support another government shutdown or any further delay in critical funding for the Department of Homeland Security. “While I adamantly disagree with the President’s unconstitutional executive actions on immigration – and have voted to roll back those actions – I do not believe it is worth risking the national security of our nation,” said Simpson. “Whether on the border, at our nation’s airports, or in many vital programs at Idaho National Laboratory, funding for the Department of Homeland Security is critical to our national security and ability to protect our nation from those who would do us harm. Delaying that funding, or playing any further political games with it, would be completely irresponsible and those who suggest otherwise don’t know what they are talking about.” While a strong majority of members supported the Resolution allowing DHS funding to move forward, Simpson acknowledged that some in the Republican Caucus want to continue using the DHS bill to fight President Obama. “We all know there is a difference of opinion within our Caucus on tactics and that some members want to keep on fighting against all reason,” said Simpson. “Members who continue voting against this funding are not helping push the conservative agenda. Instead, their political grandstanding emboldens the opposition, jeopardizes good governing policies, and does nothing to thwart the President’s agenda. Quite frankly, they’re making our party look irresponsible, unreasonable, and incapable of governing effectively.” Simpson also noted the importance of the recent court victory in stopping the President’s illegal action and made clear that he believed we should pursue the much more promising legal strategy instead of continued gridlock in Congress. “It should be noted the court has ruled against the President and these actions are now on hold,” said Simpson. “Holding our national security hostage over a fight that we are currently winning is not a strategy aimed at success. It is a strategy doomed to failure.” The fiscal year 2015 Department of Homeland Security funding bill now heads to the President’s desk. It was approved by the Senate last week. To watch Congressman Simpson give his closing remarks regarding the DHS funding bill visit his YouTube page here.
02.26.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today held a hearing with Secretary of Energy, Dr. Ernest Moniz and attended a hearing with Administrator Gina McCarthy of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Simpson is the Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee and Vice Chairman of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. At the first hearing, Simpson noted that the Obama Administration has once again proposed a significant increase for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy while proposing to reduce Fossil Energy and Nuclear Energy. Simpson also discussed the long term strategic goals of the Department of Energy and questioned Secretary Moniz on whether the administration’s request for the currently shut-down Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) will fully support the target dates of reopening the facility in March of 2016. In response to Secretary Moniz’s comments that Yucca Mountain is an unworkable solution due to the lack of a consent-based process in selecting it, Chairman Simpson said, “Consent-based is in the eye of the beholder. Talk to the local county commissioners around Yucca Mountain. They support it. That’s consent-based. Secondly, the Blue Ribbon Commission was precluded from looking at Yucca Mountain (as an option) for anything. So to be fair, let’s admit that the decision not to proceed with Yucca Mountain after spending billions of dollars there was a political decision.” In the afternoon, Simpson questioned Administrator McCarthy on the EPA’s fiscal year (FY) 2016 budget request. Simpson expressed deep concerns with the EPA’s proposed rules regarding the Clean Water Act. “We aren’t talking about waters that were unregulated before. These were regulated by the state,” said Simpson. “I think this is a vast expansion of the EPA’s jurisdiction.” Simpson has been a leading voice in opposing the EPA rule and last year secured provisions in the Cromnibus appropriations bill that restricted the administration’s application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural practices for soil and water conservation. EPA’s FY16 budget request is a 6% increase from FY15 which, if enacted, would be the third largest budget in EPA history. The EPA’s request represents a stark contrast to when Congressman Simpson chaired the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee and wrote budgets that scaled back the agency’s funding to below FY1978 levels. “The EPA ignores the realities of our debt and deficit by requesting increased spending,” said Simpson after the hearing. “Idahoans don’t want EPA overreach and I am concerned this budget is designed to do just that. This subcommittee will continue to challenge the EPA’s obtrusive policies that far too often harm the economy and kill jobs.”
02.25.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, vice-chairman of the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, discussed the need to change the budget process for wildfires during Secretary of Interior Sally Jewell’s testimony to the subcommittee on Wednesday. Simpson is the lead sponsor of H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which would end the destructive cycle of fire borrowing and would treat catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters such as hurricanes and floods. “Like many of my Western colleagues, I have seen the impacts of catastrophic wildfires first hand as they rage across Idaho each summer, threatening the lives and property of my constituents. In order to manage our federal lands, we need to stop using funding intended for land management to fight fires. This is a devastating cycle and it is destroying our forests,” said Simpson. “Until we address this issue, anything we do to increase needed management activities in the forests, like hazardous fuels removal, timber harvest, conservation, or trail maintenance, will continue to be decimated during wildfire season. Fixing the wildfire budget is the critical first step in making our forests healthier and, ultimately, reducing the cost of wildfires in the future.” Secretary Jewell included similar language in her fiscal year 2016 budget request and commended Congressman Simpson for his work on H.R. 167, which has bipartisan support in the House of Representatives and U.S. Senate. Congressmen Simpson and Congressman Schrader (D-OR) introduced legislation earlier this year to make common sense changes to the federal wildfire budget. Last Congress, H.R. 167 was cosponsored by 140 Members of Congress and was supported by a broad coalition of over 300 organizations. “We’re either going to pay for fires by taking the money from other budgets and try to repay them later, which doesn’t work, or we are going to find a better way to manage this account,” said Simpson. “I’m pleased to see Secretary Jewell address this vital change in wildfire funding in her budget proposal and I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to advance this much needed change.” Congressman Simpson also raised concerns regarding a potential listing of the sage grouse which has a court ordered listing deadline in September of this year. “I have long said that the Department needs to fully engage the states in order to ensure we are doing everything possible to prevent a listing,” said Simpson after the hearing. “I am concerned that if the Department doesn’t honor the language which prevents the agency from writing a rule, stakeholders may not have adequate time to finish their management plans that are essential to preventing the listing. I will continue to advocate for the states involvement in this process.” Congressman Simpson closed the hearing by encouraging the Secretary to look at a long term solution for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program that would provide certainty to Idaho counties.
02.11.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act. The bill approves the Keystone XL Pipeline putting an end to years of bureaucratic delays and allowing construction of the Keystone XL pipeline project. The Keystone XL pipeline would transport crude oil from the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the United States. Canadian pipeline company TransCanada has estimated that it will invest $7 billion in the United States to build the pipeline, and that up to 20,000 jobs would be directly created by the pipeline’s construction. The U.S. Department of Energy estimates that the Keystone XL pipeline would be able to move 830,000 barrels of oil per day, which represents about half of the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East. “Moving forward with the Keystone XL pipeline will create jobs and reduce our dependence on unstable foreign sources of oil,” said Simpson. “Our country cannot afford to play political games with our energy security, the Keystone pipeline needs to be built.” Because the pipeline would connect the United States with a foreign country, it requires a Presidential Permit issued by the State Department. The State Department must find that the project would serve the national interest before it can issue the permit. “This project has broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate, and it has been reviewed and studied for over six years and found to be environmentally safe,” Simpson said. “I hope the President approves this bill, because the economic and energy security implications for this country are too important to delay any longer.” The House passed S. 1 by a vote of 270-152. It will now go to the President where he could sign the bill into law but will most likely VETO the legislation.
02.05.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson commends the recent report from the Institute of Medicine (IOM) suggesting that fresh, white potatoes should not be excluded from the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) nutrition program. Simpson has been raising this concern with the USDA for years and successfully included fresh, white potatoes in the WIC program in the fiscal year 2015 appropriations bill that was signed into law. “Fresh potatoes have been excluded from the WIC program despite their widely known nutritional value,” said Simpson. “Congress has directed the USDA to allow WIC participants to make wholesome food choices for their young families by including fresh, white potatoes in the program, yet the Administration has failed to follow through. I hope the USDA will listen to the IOM report they requested and once and for all permanently end this ridiculous exclusion.” Simpson’s language in the FY2015 cromnibus only ended the exclusion for one year. The IOM committee evaluated the 2009 regulation that excluded white potatoes from purchase with the WIC cash value voucher (CVV) and considers whether white potatoes should henceforth be allowed as a WIC-eligible vegetable in the CVV. Summary of the report is online, but some key findings are listed below: Overall, the nutrient profile of white potatoes is similar to that of other starchy vegetables that are currently permitted for purchase with the CVV. Because white potatoes are so widely consumed, they contribute useful quantities of potassium and fiber to Americans’ diets. The nutrient profile of white potatoes does not support their exclusion from the CVV because their nutrient content is similar to that of other starchy vegetables included in the CVV. Increased consumption of white potatoes could improve potassium intake for both women and children. WIC participants’ intake of all fruit and vegetable subgroups could be improved. Current consumption of starchy vegetables does not meet 2010 DGA recommendations for this food group. Overall diet quality for both WIC participants and WIC-eligible non-participants could be improved. Simpson has advocated for the inclusion of fresh, white potatoes for years by writing letters to Secretary Vilsack, offering amendments and giving speeches to his fellow Congressman on the issue. To view Congressman Simpson defending fresh potatoes in the House Appropriations Committee, visit his YouTube page.
02.04.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will once again be a co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Dairy Farmer Caucus for the 114th Congress. The 80 member bipartisan caucus provides a forum for members and staff to collaborate on many important issues to the dairy industry. “Idaho dairy producers and their counterparts across the nation face unique challenges,” said Simpson. “It will be important for the dairy industry to be a part of the conversation as this Congress discusses reforming our tax code and rolling back regulations that burden businesses and farmers.” The Congressional Dairy Caucus is a bipartisan, nationwide group of members that was formed to address the wide range of issues that matter to dairy farmers and their industry partners. The caucus provides a forum for Members of Congress to work together on issues including Farm Bill policy, trade agreements, regulatory policy, and immigration issues. The American dairy industry is an integral component of our national and local economies; it is undeniably the foundation of many of the rural communities in Idaho and across the country. Idaho is a large part of the dairy industry’s economic output and ranked 3rd in the nation for milk production. “We know how important the dairy industry is to our economy here in Idaho,” said Simpson. “This caucus provides a valuable opportunity for Idaho dairy farmers to join the discussion on agricultural policies that impact our entire nation.”
02.03.2015	“The national debt just isn’t cool anymore. “It barely got a passing mention in the State of the Union, rarely is discussed in the halls of Congress, and seems to be nearly forgotten by the Idahoans who contact my office. I’ve heard from seven Idahoans this year on debt – compared to the nearly one thousand who have contacted me about immigration in the last few months. “It wasn’t long ago that the national debt was the most popular kid at the dance. It was the challenge of our times. Republicans and Democrats convened special committees to tackle it; President Obama dedicated significant portions of his State of the Union and entire speeches to it; powerful interest groups formed to build ideas and find consensus to fix it. It was just 2009, in the midst of the recession, when President Obama convened the bipartisan Fiscal Responsibility Summit to bring the country together and highlight solutions. But we never hear about it anymore. So what changed from 2009 to now? Is the debt gone? “Not quite. In fact, it’s the opposite - it has grown by $7.5 trillion, a staggering 70% increase, and it continues to grow at record rates. “How can that be possible? The President has bragged repeatedly that deficits have been cut by more than half, and he’s right. His budget released yesterday has a $474 billion deficit, down from the record $1.4 trillion in 2009. But it isn’t as rosy as it seems, and the White House’s claim that we have tackled the deficit is misleading at best. Though it is growing slower than before, the debt is greater relative to the size of the economy than at any time since WWII, and it is projected to begin swelling again, to a monstrous 79% of the economy by 2025. In a huge missed opportunity, his budget does nothing to address the structural flaws generating our enormous debt, nor does it make any effort to balance the budget in the long term. “In the last few years, the annual deficit has decreased as a result of a combination of spending reductions instituted by the Republican Congress, and increased revenue from the improving economy. But for all the efforts to reduce spending, Congress continues to ignore the elephant in the room eating up 2/3 of the budget and growing at an unsustainable rate. Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid continue to grow as our nation gets older and lives longer. They are paid for on a mandatory basis – meaning we have already committed to pay for them no matter how big they get, even if it adds to the debt. “But we can’t just cut them. They are contracts made to the American people, and the government must make good on our deal. What we can do is stop paying for them with gimmicks and IOUs. We need to modernize and update our entitlements, and we need to do it now. We also need a reformed tax system to produce the revenue needed to pay for them. “Tax policies that grow the economy will create more revenue than simply jacking up taxes on the wealthy. We need fundamental tax simplification and reform. Let’s not pick and choose winners and losers in the tax code to score political points, let’s revamp the entire system to benefit the whole economy. “Presidents Bush and Obama oversaw record spending to cover the costs of the wars in the Middle East and in response to the recession. At the same time we had greatly reduced revenue coming in to the government. We put record deficits on our credit card. Now, the wars are over and the economy is recovering, but we have done nothing to pay off the credit card. “At some point, the bank comes after its money.”
01.29.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has signed on as an original cosponsor of H.R. 594, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act, which would support the existing partnership between states and the federal government by preventing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. This bill addresses widespread concerns with the EPA proposed rule expanding its jurisdiction over water throughout the country. Congressman Simpson was also a cosponsor of this legislation when it passed the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress. “This bill responds to some of the most troubling aspects of the EPA’s efforts to expand its jurisdiction,” said Simpson. “The EPA initially claimed that its rule would provide clarity and flexibility, unfortunately this is not the case. Idahoans have serious concerns about how the EPA may decide to interpret this rule in the future, thus causing even more uncertainty than they have now.” The Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act expands on the achievements of House Republicans in the FY15 Cromnibus bill which included provisions restricting the application of the Clean Water Act in certain agricultural areas, such as soil and water conservation practices, from regulation. “This bill recognizes that the EPA’s proposed rule undoes many existing and successful partnerships for cleaning up and maintaining our waterways, whether those are partnerships between farmers, ranchers, and conservationists or local, state, and federal governments,” said Simpson. “I think it’s an arrogant assumption on the part of the EPA to say that they alone should have such authority over every drop of water across the country.” Simpson has long been a leader on this issue. As Chairman of the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, he included similar language in the FY2015 House Energy and Water Appropriations Act and authored language in the FY2015 House Interior and Environment Appropriations Act to prohibit the agencies from finalizing the proposed rule.
01.29.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, alongside Congresswoman Robin Kelly (IL-02), has co-introduced H.R. 539, the ‘Action for Dental Health Act of 2015.’ This legislation will target relatively modest but crucial federal dollars to organizations to provide proven oral health care services in a manner that effectively addresses the barriers to dental care that people often face. Without spending any additional dollars, the bill would have a significant impact on communities that are underserved. “Early diagnosis, intervention and preventive treatments can stop the progress of most oral diseases,” said Simpson. “Not only do individuals often suffer from severe pain, but it also adds unnecessary costs to the health care delivery system, costs that could have been minimized or eliminated had the disease been caught in its early stages.” “Regular visits to the dentist do more than keep your smile attractive – they can tell a lot about your overall health, including whether or not you may be developing a disease like diabetes or if you’re at risk for a stroke,” said Kelly. “Our bill helps to create healthier communities by breaking down barriers to oral healthcare and will ultimately help reduce unnecessary healthcare costs by minimizing and eliminating dental diseases in their early stages.” H.R. 539 redirects existing federal dollars to initiatives that have a real impact on dental access disparities. It includes programs that reduce the number of people who visit emergency rooms by diverting them to private dental practices, where in some cases they can repay the cost of their care with community service activates, expansion of care in nursing homes and for the elderly, support of charitable organizations, improving collaboration with health professionals, and several other provisions. The bill has been referred to the House Committee on Energy and Commerce.
01.27.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported a House package of 12 bills to protect those most at risk to human and sex trafficking in the United States and abroad. The legislation would build on the bipartisan efforts of last Congress by boosting resources to our law enforcement officers and providing support to the victims of trafficking crimes. “Many Americans think that human trafficking is a chapter from our past. Unfortunately these crimes are real and too often occur here in the U.S.,” said Simpson. “By passing these important bills we are prioritizing resources within the leading agencies that deal with these heinous crimes.” According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest growing organized crime and the third largest criminal enterprise in the world. The numbers are sobering; an estimated 293,000 American youth are currently at risk of becoming victims of commercial sexual exploitation, and 100,000 children are believed to be actual victims of trafficking every year in the United States. 17,500 people are believed to be trafficked into the United States each year from other countries; while between 600,000 and 800,000 people are trafficked worldwide. Most trafficking is related to sexual exploitation, and most trafficked persons are female. Several of the bills passed in the House package take aim at putting an end to this by restricting the passports of people convicted of sex crimes in other countries, increasing training among State Department employees so they are better equipped to identify and protect victims, and encouraging states to adopt ‘safe harbor’ laws and protect the victims of these horrific crimes. All 12 bills will now head to the Senate for consideration.
01.20.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after the President State of the Union Address. “The President has put forward his vision for our nation, now it’s time for a Republican Congress to do the same. The President wants to increase taxes on investments and earnings, while Republicans want to empower the middle class by reforming our outdated tax code – making it fairer, simpler, and more conducive to economic growth. The President wants to increase regulations and drive up the cost of energy, while Republicans want to build the Keystone XL Pipeline and sustain our move toward true energy independence. The President wants to throw hundreds of billions of dollars at a litany of new federal programs, while Republicans want to continue progress on reducing the deficit and creating new jobs. The President touts his “free” federal programs, while Republicans know that “free” federal help places an additional strain on America's already overburdened taxpayers. I look forward to the coming debate on the critical issues facing our nation and to a Republican agenda that puts the priorities of American families ahead of failed policies of the past.”
01.13.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation to reform the regulatory process and reduce the uncertainty plaguing our economy as a result of the Obama Administration’s excessive regulatory rule writing. H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2015, passed the House by a vote of 250-175. “Like many Americans, I have been stunned by the volume and scope of regulations promulgated by the Administration. I consistently hear from Idahoans that these rules are making it more difficult for them to do business and are putting a damper on the economy,” said Simpson. “Our government needs to take a close look at the economic effects of federal mandates, instead of saddling our job-creators and small businesses with more burdensome and costly regulations.” The Regulatory Accountability Act makes the regulatory process more transparent, agencies more accountable and regulations more cost-effective through the following provisions: Requiring advance notice of proposed major rulemakings to increase public participation and input before costly agency positions are proposed and entrenched. Requiring agencies to use the best reasonably obtainable science and choose the lowest cost rulemaking alternative that meets statutory objectives. Permitting costlier rules when there are needs to protect public health, safety, or welfare, but requiring the disclosure of the benefits of those rules to justify their additional costs. Providing on-the-record but streamlined administrative hearings in the highest-impact rulemakings—those that impose $1 billion or more in annual costs—so interested parties can subject critical evidence to cross-examination. After passage, H.R. 185 now moves to the Senate for consideration. In addition to supporting the Regulatory Accountability Act, Simpson is a cosponsor of the Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny Act, commonly referred to as the REINS Act. This legislation would require Congress to approve major regulations by federal agencies, including any regulation that has an impact of more than $100 million. The total cost of regulations from federal agencies is estimated at $1.86 trillion annually. “Each year, federal agencies issue thousands of new regulations affecting the entire American economy; this often negatively impacts job growth,” said Simpson. “Congress needs to reestablish its authority to oversee these rules in order to reduce the burden on all businesses and stimulate real economic growth.” The REINS Act is currently under consideration in the House Judiciary Committee and the House Rules Committee.
01.09.2015	Congressman Mike Simpson has introduced H.R. 129, the Idaho Safe and Efficient Vehicle Act of 2015. The bill will increase the allowed weight of trucks on Idaho Interstate Highways to 129,000 pounds. The current allowance is 105,500 pounds. H.R. 129 would put Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highways, which currently allow trucks up to 129,000 pounds. The State of Idaho has completed a comprehensive ten-year study which found the weight increase would have no significant impact on roadway safety, nor would it significantly impact the structural soundness of Idaho’s bridges or pavement. “Last year we came closer than ever to this legislation becoming a reality,” said Congressman Simpson. “It is a common sense reform that not only puts Idaho on equal footing with its neighbors, but actually extends our system’s life by making it work better.” A higher weight limit means trucks must have more axels than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that there is less weight on each axel than a standard truck. It also would reduce the number of trucks on the road. Idaho’s current weight allowance is significantly less than that of neighboring states Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada, as well as British Columbia, Canada, causing difficulty for producers who ship goods on the Interstate across and into Idaho. Additionally, heavier trucks are currently allowed to travel all throughout Idaho, but not where they should be travelling – on Idaho’s Interstates. Instead, they are navigating state highways, intersections, pedestrian areas, railroad tracks, and school zones. “This bill puts heavy trucks where they belong, on the Interstate,” added Simpson. “Congress needs to take action to improve our transportation system, and make it work better for everyone who uses it. This legislation would do just that.” Simpson’s bill will require passage in the House and the Senate before heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law.
01.08.2015	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson and Oregon Congressman Kurt Schrader reintroduced legislation to make common sense changes to the federal wildfire budget. H.R. 167, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, which was cosponsored by nearly 150 Members of Congress and supported by a broad coalition of over 300 organizations in the 113th Congress, aims to make sure the way we budget for wildfire suppression activities makes sense by ending the destructive cycle of fire borrowing and treating catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters. “There are a number of steps that we need to take to address forest health and management issues, but fixing the wildfire suppression budget must be the first one,” said Simpson. “Until we address this issue, anything we do to increase needed management activities in the forests, like hazardous fuels removal, timber harvest, conservation, or trail maintenance, will continue to be lost in fire transfers. Fixing the wildfire budget is the critical first step in making our forests healthier and, ultimately, reducing the cost of wildfires in the future.” “Treating catastrophic wildfires like other natural disasters – such as hurricanes and tornadoes – means land management agencies can adequately prepare for the future without jeopardizing their annual funding,” said Congressman Schrader. “ Each year, critical forestry programs face unnecessary budget cuts because they are forced to transfer funds from successful forest management practices to pay for wildfire suppression. Freeing up those financial resources to enhance catastrophic fire prevention programs will ultimately reduce costs on the federal government and help us better prevent wildfires in the future.” H.R. 167 would budget for catastrophic wildfires in the same way as other natural disasters, like floods and hurricanes. Under the bill, routine wildland firefighting costs, which make up about 70% of the cost of wildfire suppression, would be funded through the normal budgeting and appropriations process. The true emergency fire events, which represent about 1% of wildland fires but make up 30% of costs, would be treated like similar major natural disasters and funded under existing disaster programs. “The way we currently budget for fire is costing taxpayers and destroying our forests,” said Simpson. “Passing this legislation will have a significant and long-term impact on both our public lands and on our budget, allowing us to finally budget responsibly for wildfire suppression in a way that ultimately decreases firefighting costs by mitigating fire risk and making us better prepared for and more resilient against future fires.”
12.11.2014	The House of Representatives has unanimously passed the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act, co-authored by Congressman Mike Simpson and Congresswoman Lucile Roybal-Allard (CA). The bill will reauthorize newborn screening programs for five years while updating and building upon the landmark 2008 Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act first offered by Simpson and Roybal-Allard. “I am pleased to see the House pass the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act and send it to the President for his signature,” said Congressman Simpson. “I am so grateful to Congresswoman Roybal-Allard for her dedication to this issue. She has truly led the way in making this bill a reality.” “I have repeatedly said that this bill is as important as any we will pass this year,” Simpson continued. “These crucial screening tests detect conditions that are too often undetected at birth and if left untreated can cause disability, developmental delay, illness, or even death. Conditions quickly identified lead to better outcomes and saved lives, often at a reduced cost. ” Congresswoman Roybal-Allard added, “Our collective efforts to rapidly identify and treat these disorders are making a difference between health and disability, and even life and death, for the children affected by these severe diseases.” Newborn screening is run by individual states, but the original 2008 Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act first encouraged states to uniformly test for a recommended set of disorders, and provided resources for individual states to grow their own screening programs. Before that legislation, state screening varied greatly, with only 10 states requiring infants to be screened for all the treatable “core conditions” recommended. Today, most states require screening for at least 29 of the 31 core conditions. The test consists of a simple prick on the heel of newborns before they leave the hospital. That blood sample tests for serious genetic, metabolic, or hearing disorders that may not be apparent at birth. Without the test, parents may have no way of knowing their child needs treatment. “Newborn screening represents a major public health success story that has preserved the lives and health of tens of thousands of newborns,” stated March of Dimes President Dr. Jennifer L. Howse. “The March of Dimes is deeply grateful to Rep. Mike Simpson for being a tireless champion of the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act. With this legislation, we have ensured that the over 20,000 babies born in Idaho each year will continue to receive potentially life-saving newborn screening tests.” “Besides the obvious benefit to families who suffer an enormous emotional and economic burden when a one of these conditions goes undiagnosed for too long, this legislation is a powerful tool for savings in our already overburdened health care system,” added Simpson. “As a former dentist, I have seen the value of diagnosing and treating a condition early in a child’s life, and this bill will help strengthen newborn screening across the country.” One example is found in a 2012 study on severe combined immunodeficiency, known as SCID, which is one of the 31 core conditions recommended for state screening. The Medicaid cost of treating a baby with SCID in the first two years can be $2 million dollars or more. Yet an infant diagnosed early can be cured through a bone marrow transplant in the first three months of life, costing $100,000. The amended bill already passed in the Senate, and now with House passage heads to the President’s desk for a signature.
12.10.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the release of H.R. 83, the Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations bill that included many important provisions for Idaho and Western States. “This bill represents an important step for Congress toward fulfilling its constitutional responsibility to fund government operations through the regular process,” said Simpson. “When we fail to pass annual appropriations bills, we fail to look critically at how agencies spend taxpayer dollars, and lose opportunities to make government work better. We can point to dozens of examples in this bill that support conservative priorities and represent good government that would not have been supported had we continued to fund the government through a Continuing Resolution.” Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and Vice Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment had a key role in deciding funding levels for Department of Energy and Department of Interior programs, including the following highlights: Energy and Water Development “I am pleased to report that the Energy and Water portion of the omnibus rejects cuts to nuclear research sought by the Obama Administration and increases funding for many of the vital programs at INL,” said Chairman Mike Simpson. “We’ve worked very hard with the Lab and the people of Eastern Idaho to promote INL, and the funding in this bill will advance the critical contributions that INL makes toward a broad energy security policy in the United States. This bill will have a lasting impact on enhancing the current capabilities of INL and building new, unique capabilities that are essential to the world class researchers at our national laboratory.” DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy is funded at $914 million, an increase of $24.3 million over the FY14 funding level. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $914 million allocation include several of the following: The Idaho Operations and Infrastructure account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvements at Idaho National Laboratory, is funded at $200.6 million – a $20 million increase over last year. The National Science User Facility program is funded at $36.5 million – an increase of $18 million above the President’s request. Increases under this program are directed to fully complete the installation of post-irradiation examination equipment at INL’s Irradiated Materials Characterization Laboratory (IMCL). Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $55 million. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $35 million, an increase of $5 million over FY14 and the budget request. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $133 million – an increase of $20 million above fiscal year 2014 and $32.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $133 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, $11 million above the budget request. The Advanced Fuels program within Fuel Cycle Research and Development is funded at $60.1 million, the same as last year and $17 million above the President’s budget request, and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $49 million, $19 million above FY14. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $68 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor, an increase of $1.5 million above FY14. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million to continue development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $380 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. This represents an increase of $13 million above the President’s request to fully support workplan alignments needed for Idaho’s transuranic waste program as a result of the closure of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant. Includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Prohibits the U.S. Corps of Engineers from requiring Clean Water Act section 404 permits for certain agricultural activities, such as construction and maintenance of farm or stock ponds or irrigation ditches. Directs the U.S Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of the Army to withdraw the interpretive rule, “U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of the Army Interpretive Rule Regarding the Applicability of the Clean Water Act 4 Section 404(f)(1)(A).” Section 404 of the Clean Water Act exempts certain agricultural activities, such as soil and water conservation practices, from regulation. The interpretive rule would have limited that exemption significantly. Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee “I’m pleased with a number of public lands provisions in this bill that will have a direct and positive impact on Idaho,” said Simpson. “PILT funding is crucial to Idaho counties, and adequate funding for wildfire suppression is essential, so I’m very glad that this bill fully funds both of those priorities. In addition, the language delaying the sage-grouse ESA listing decision is extremely important to our state. Stakeholders in Idaho have worked hard to create a management plan that will prevent the listing of sage-grouse as an endangered species. Yet even stakeholders who have been at the table since the beginning of this process are concerned that the court-imposed listing deadline has resulted in less collaboration and rushed decisions. They need more time to do the proper work that will warrant a decision not to list the species. By delaying the listing decision, we can provide the BLM with time to do the job right.” Full funding of the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates counties for the losses in property tax as a result of a high percentage of federal land. Idaho counties received $28,579,192 in PILT funding for FY14. Language prohibiting funding for writing a rule to list the greater sage-grouse as an endangered species, providing stakeholders additional time to craft management plans that would work to prevent a listing. Full funding for wildfire suppression operations at the 10-year average, as well as $65 million for the Forest Service to acquire needed airtankers to fight wildfires, allowing the agency to phase out antiquated aircraft. Extends language making litigation costs more transparent and extending requirements that litigants exhaust administrative review before litigating grazing issues in Federal court. Restores $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves; and Prevents agencies from limiting recreational shooting and hunting on federal lands. Defense “I’m very pleased that my colleagues have shown wide recognition and support for the importance of keeping the A-10,” said Simpson. “The A-10’s past combat performance is lauded by both the service members that operate them and those who rely on them for close air support on the battlefield. While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” Denies the administration’s request to retire any A-10 close-air support aircraft, and provides $337.1 million to keep A-10s flying in FY15. Prohibits funds from being used to transfer or divest AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National Guard to active Army in FY15. Agriculture and Rural Development Subcommittee “Fresh potatoes have been excluded from the WIC program despite their widely known nutritional value,” said Simpson. “This bill corrects the exclusion of fresh potatoes and allows WIC participants to make wholesome food choices for their young families.” Includes a provision lifting a ban on white potatoes from the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) program. This language, drafted by Congressman Simpson, ensures that fresh white potatoes and all varieties of fresh vegetables are eligible for purchase through the WIC program. The House is scheduled to vote on H.R. 83 on Thursday, December 11. Links to the bill text and reports can be found here: http://rules.house.gov/bill/113/hr-83
12.04.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today opposed H.R. 3979, The National Defense Authorization Act because of the authority it extends to the Administration to train and equip the Syrian rebels. “There are many essential provisions included in H.R. 3979 that I support. However, I opposed the bill because I cannot in good conscience vote to extend additional authority to the Obama administration’s unilateral decision to train and equip Syrian rebel groups,” said Simpson. “A determination to continue to commit billions of dollars and countless other American resources to a new, and potentially years long conflict in the Middle East is too important for Congress to rubber stamp. We need to hold hearings, have a debate and vote after we have a complete picture of what our long-term strategy will be in this conflict. The actions we take now will have long lasting impacts on our national security, budget, and our economy, and I for one do not trust the President with making those decisions alone.” H.R. 3979 passed with a final vote of 300-119 and now moves to the Senate for consideration.
11.25.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today sent a letter to U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell expressing his strong concern about the Service’s Proposed Rules for Commercial Filming in Wilderness Areas. Simpson’s primary concern is that the Administration’s final rule will place an undue burden on journalists, television programs, outfitters and guides and other media-related activities that have traditionally enjoyed access to wilderness areas for filming or photography. “My office has received considerable contact from journalists and others who regularly film or take photographs in our nation’s spectacular wilderness areas,” Simpson wrote. “These are people who appreciate wilderness, want to share its values with others, or may want to use their photographs or videos to help promote their business. These are not individuals who are looking to film feature length action movies that would do harm to wilderness areas or involve multiple cameras with large crews and extensive sets.” Simpson’s primary concern is protecting the First Amendment, “Under no circumstances should the Forest Service be dictating its views about content to the media,” Simpson wrote. “The portion of the rule that leaves open the possibility that the Forest Service could deny access over content raises serious First Amendment concerns and is contrary to any Congressional intent associated with the creation of the National Wilderness Preservation System.” Simpson is requesting Chief Tidwell to ensure the final rule addresses concerns from journalists and others who would like to film or take photographs in wilderness areas administered by the U.S. Forest Service. A copy of the letter can be found on Simpson’s website.
11.20.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson this week supported a series of bills to bring greater transparency and accountability to actions by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). H.R. 1422, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2013, H.R. 4012, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2013, and H.R. 4795, the Promoting New Manufacturing Act, were all passed by the House of Representatives and are now awaiting action by the U.S. Senate. H.R. 1422, which makes a number of reforms to the EPA’s Science Advisory Board to ensure that EPA’s decisions are made on sound science, complements Simpson’s efforts to address concerns about the EPA’s Integrated Risk Information System (IRIS) program. In recent years the IRIS program has drawn harsh criticism from the science community. H.R. 1422 takes action based on findings from a National Academy of Sciences study that Simpson commissioned in 2011 when he chaired the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “The public needs to be able to trust that EPA’s policy decisions are based on good science and not swayed by politics,” said Simpson. “When we first examined the IRIS system, we found a broken process that lacked scientific accountability, and I’m pleased that Congress has taken up addition efforts to improve transparency and accountability and increase public participation in EPA’s decision making process.” H.R. 4012 would ensure that the scientific data used by EPA for policy decisions is available to the public. The bill responds to concerns about the fact that the Obama Administration has not made public the data behind a number of its decisions and has refused to provide the information to Congress when requested. Similarly, H.R. 4795 would improve accountability and transparency in EPA’s permitting process for industrial projects. “I have long expressed my concern about EPA’s appetite for aggressive regulation, a concern that is magnified by the fact that EPA cannot or refuses to provide the scientific data it uses to make these policies,” said Simpson. “These bills are reasonable and important measures to bring transparency and accountability to the regulatory process, and I am hopeful that the Senate will act on them quickly.”
11.20.2014	The following statement was issued by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson following the President’s Address to the Nation on his plans for immigration: “Let me be clear, the President's actions tonight are illegal, unconstitutional, and contrary to the way in which the American people expect the President and Congress to interact. They have the potential to throw us into a Constitutional Crisis. “Apparently the President didn't get the message the American people sent to him two weeks ago. At the same time, I strongly believe my party's response to this inappropriate executive action should be measured and realistic. We cannot shut down the government, impeach the President, or allow this issue to impede progress on deficit reduction, tax reform, or other critical priorities for the American people. Instead, we should fight this edict early next year in any realistic way we can, fight the President in the courts, and move expeditiously to enact a more responsible, effective and lasting approach to immigration reform.”
11.14.2014	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 5682, a bill to approve the Keystone XL Pipeline, which would put an end to years of bureaucratic delays and allow construction of the Keystone XL pipeline project. The Keystone XL pipeline would transport crude oil from the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the United States. Because the pipeline would connect the United States with a foreign country, it requires a Presidential Permit issued by the State Department. The State Department must find that the project would serve the national interest before it can issue the permit. The first application to the U.S. State Department to build the pipeline was submitted in 2008, and after a thorough environmental review, in 2011 an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) found that the pipeline would have limited adverse environmental impacts during its construction and operation. Despite this, President Obama denied the Presidential Permit request in January of 2012, requiring the permitting process to begin anew. The State Department issued a second Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement in January of 2014, confirming once again that the pipeline would have limited adverse environmental impact. “Moving forward with the permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline will create jobs and reduce our dependence on unstable foreign sources of oil,” said Simpson. “The President is yet again playing political games with our energy security, and ignoring the benefits of this project without a scientific basis for doing so.” Canadian pipeline company TransCanada has estimated that it will invest $7 billion in the United States to build the pipeline, and that up to 20,000 jobs would be directly created by the pipeline’s construction. The U.S. Department of Energy estimates that the Keystone XL pipeline would be able to move 830,000 barrels of oil per day, which represents about half of the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East. “This project has broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate, and it has been reviewed and studied for six years and found to be environmentally safe,” Simpson said. “I hope the Senate and the President approve this bill quickly, because the economic and energy security implications for this country are too important to delay any longer.” H.R. 5682 authorizes the construction, connection, operation, and maintenance of the Keystone XL pipeline. The bill deems the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State in January of 2014 sufficient to satisfy all the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) and any other federal law that requires federal agency consultation or review. The House passed H.R. 5682 by a vote of 252-161. It will now move to the Senate for further consideration.
10.17.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today released a statement on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s (NRC) completion of a key volume of the Safety Evaluation Report for the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Storage Project. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and has the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The findings of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in the Safety Evaluation Report provide the strongest evidence yet that Yucca Mountain is safe and that the project should move forward,” said Simpson. “Yucca Mountain has been the law of the land for nearly 30 years, and we have spent $11 billion dollars on the effort up to this point. It is mindboggling that the administration continues to block the project despite overwhelming scientific evidence confirming its safety.” The NRC originally received an application from the Department of Energy (DOE) in June of 2008 for a license to construct and operate the nation’s first geologic repository for high-level nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain in Nevada. In March of 2010, the Obama Administration filed a motion to withdraw its application, and the NRC unilaterally halted its technical review of Yucca Mountain in September 2011. The completion of the third volume of its Safety Evaluation Report follows an August 2013 decision by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals decision ordering the NRC to continue its review of the licensing application at least until available funds are expended. The Court found that the NRC was “simply defying a law enacted by Congress, and…is doing so without any legal basis.” “It’s time to stop wasting taxpayer money on political games and move forward on Yucca Mountain,” Simpson said. “All of the technological developments that are happening now at the Idaho National Lab and elsewhere in the field of nuclear energy will ultimately depend on our ability to find a permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel. In light of this new NRC report, I hope that the administration will rethink its baseless objections on Yucca Mountain.”
10.15.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a number of western colleagues in urging House leadership to secure full funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (SRS) programs for fiscal year 2015. In a letter to House Speaker John Boehner and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Simpson and others urged that the federal government fulfill its responsibility to counties with tax-exempt federal land by fully funding both programs. Legislation authorizing full funding of PILT expired at the end of September. The letter reads: “While it must be our ultimate goal to enact a long-term, sustainable solution to eliminate the ongoing uncertainty our counties face [while Congress authorizes these programs on a year-to-year basis], an extension and full-funding of these programs is essential to address immediate needs…Without congressional action, we risk severely crippling these counties’ ability to operate. “Equally important is the funding that more than 700 forest counties and school districts receive through SRS. These payments honor the over 100 year old contract between the federal government and counties housing the 193 million acres of National Forest land. Due to extremely low productivity on the federal forests over the past two decades, these funds are more critical to counties’ well-being than ever. ” Simpson has been a long-time advocate for extending the existing mandatory authorization of PILT. “PILT is the equivalent of the federal government paying the property taxes it owes to the counties where it owns land. If we fail to fully fund the government’s obligations under PILT, the federal government is essentially failing to pay its taxes and fulfill its commitments to counties throughout Idaho and the West. As a result, many counties—especially those with a large percentage of federal land—will be unable to provide essential services. These counties know that PILT is not an optional ‘nice to have’ but critical to their ability to serve their communities.” The letter was signed by 41 members and delivered to House leadership on October 15, 2014.
10.03.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today expressed continued opposition to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule to expand federal jurisdiction over water. This week the Small Business Administration expressed “deep concern” in a letter to the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers about the impact of the rule on agriculture and other small businesses. The letter echoed Simpson’s call to withdraw the rule. “I have long expressed concern about the negative impact that the EPA’s attempted water grab would have on agriculture in Idaho. Unfortunately, we are now seeing these predictions play out,” said Simpson. “The more this rule is analyzed, the more ridiculous the EPA’s claims that it won’t negatively affect agriculture and other industries become. With the SBA weighing in that the rule would have ‘direct and significant impact on small businesses,’ it’s time to renew the call to withdraw this rule.” This week Simpson joined colleagues in other dairy states in sending a letter to the EPA, the Corps, and USDA expressing concern about the impact that the rule would have on the dairy industry, among others. He crafted language in both the FY15 House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill and the FY15 House Energy and Water Appropriations bill to prevent the rule from moving forward.
09.11.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of H.R. 3522, the Employee Health Care Protection Act. This bill would allow employees to keep their work sponsored health plans by ensuring that existing group health plans can continue to be sold through 2019. It passed the House 247 to 167. Last year, millions of plans in the individual insurance market were cancelled due to Obamacare mandates. Now, as many as 50 million workers with full coverage could face cancellation or disruption because their work sponsored plans would not meet new minimal essential coverage requirements. H.R. 3522 ensures that group health plans that were offered in 2013 remain available and allows small businesses and their employees to purchase these plans regardless of whether they were on them in 2013. The Administration has provided limited relief for group plans that do not comply with Obamacare, but that relief only lasts through 2016. This bill would extend that opportunity to those not previously on such plans, and add three years of reprieve. The bill expands on the “Keep Your Health Plan Act of 2013,” which applied to individual market plans, and allowed individuals to keep their plans. That bill passed the House late last year. “The President repeatedly promised that if Americans liked their health plans, they could keep them,” Said Congressman Simpson. “We now know that is not true. This bill would allow the Administration to start making good on that promise and also allow for more affordable coverage options to remain available to more Americans.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
09.09.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored and supported final passage of H.R. 5078, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act, that supports the existing partnership between states and the federal government by preventing EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. This bill addresses widespread concerns with the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new proposed rule expanding its jurisdiction over water throughout the country. H.R. 5078 passed the House with a bipartisan vote 262-152. Simpson, who has long been a leader on this issue, included language in his FY2015 House Energy and Water Appropriations Act and authored language in the FY2015 House Interior and Environment Appropriations Act to prohibit the agencies from finalizing a rule on this issue, which the agencies proposed earlier this year. “The EPA’s efforts to expand its jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act by redefining waters of the U.S. have, not surprisingly, resulted in widespread uncertainty and deep concern for the agriculture sector in our state,” said Simpson. “I’m pleased that Congress has acted on this issue to recognize the existing and successful partnerships between states, land users, conservationists, and the federal government and stop the Obama Administration from expanding its jurisdiction over water throughout the U.S.” H.R. 5078 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
09.08.2014	Legislation authored by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson that would authorize important but routine maintenance at Smith Gulch on the Salmon River in Idaho has passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 398 to 1. H.R. 4283 would allow the use of limited maintenance equipment needed to maintain the routine functions and safety of the existing lodge. “This legislation clarifies Congress’ intent of the 2004 amendments to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act which continued the existing use and occupancy of commercial services in this corridor of the Salmon River,” Simpson said. “The use of maintenance equipment would allow the lodge to eliminate the reliance on outdated energy sources and replace them with modest renewable energy sources, all while complying with existing laws.” Currently, the Forest Service does not believe it has clear authorization to permit the use of the equipment necessary for the general upkeep of the facilities at the lodge. This bill clarifies the authorization so the corridor can be managed as it was intended under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. H.R. 4283 will now move to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
07.31.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today hailed passage of legislation to clarify federal regulation of pesticides by the House of Representatives. H.R. 935, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act, would remove duplicative requirements that have added layers of paperwork on top of day-to-day operations for small businesses, farmers, and local governments by clarifying that pesticides which are already regulated under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) are not also regulated under the Clean Water Act. The bill, of which Simpson is a cosponsor, reinstates EPA’s long-standing position on the issue, which was overturned as the result of a lawsuit in 2009. “This ruling didn’t make applying pesticides any safer; all it did was create duplicative and unnecessary new regulations that cost money and increase the risk of litigation for local governments, irrigation districts, and farmers and ranchers,” said Simpson. “Passing this legislation is common sense, and I’m hopeful that the Senate will act quickly on the bill so that we can address this issue once and for all.” Simpson has been a cosponsor of similar legislation since 2011. H.R. 935 is bipartisan and widely supported in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. After passing the House by a vote of 267-161 today, it is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
07.31.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored two new bills to address widespread concerns with the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) new proposed rule expanding its jurisdiction over water throughout the U.S. H.R. 5071, the Agriculture Conservation Flexibility Act, would address some of the most controversial provisions in the proposed rule, withdrawing the Interpretive Rule proposed in March that has resulted in great uncertainty and concern across the agriculture sector. H.R. 5078, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act, would support the existing partnership between states and the federal government by preventing EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. “These two bills respond to some of the most troubling aspects of the EPA’s efforts to expand its jurisdiction,” said Simpson. “The EPA initially claimed that its new rule would provide clarity and flexibility for American agriculture, but my initial concerns that this would not be the case have proven true. Farmers across Idaho have expressed to me their serious concern about how the EPA may decide to interpret this rule in the future, leading to even less certainty than they have now. “Moreover,” he added, “These bills recognize that the EPA’s proposed rule undoes many existing and successful partnerships for cleaning up and maintaining our waterways, whether those are partnerships between farmers, ranchers, and conservationists or local, state, and federal governments. I think it’s an arrogant assumption on the part of the EPA to say that they alone should have such authority over every drop of water across the country.” H.R. 5071 and H.R. 5078 are currently under committee consideration in the House of Representatives.
07.25.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson expressed great satisfaction at the news that H.R. 876, the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act, which he authored, has been signed into law. Simpson first introduced the legislation in 2009, and today it was signed by the president. The Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act corrects a long-standing oversight in law by authorizing a number of water diversions within the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Area and the Selway-Bitteroot Wilderness Area in Idaho which existed before the wilderness was created. The new law will enable landowners to do the necessary maintenance and repairs on these diversions. “I’m so pleased that the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act has finally been signed into law,” said Simpson. “I introduced this bill five years ago when the Forest Service discovered that it didn’t have the authority to permit repairs on an historic water diversion in the Frank Church. When we looked into the issue, we learned that a number of pre-existing diversions had been overlooked when the wilderness areas were created. Any one of these diversions could need repairs to maintain integrity and protect the surrounded ecosystem. With enactment of this bill, the necessary maintenance and repairs can now be done.”
07.16.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded the decision to stop USDA’s planned closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. Simpson, who is working with other western representatives to prevent closure of the facility, recently urged the chairman of the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee to deny a request by the Agricultural Research Service to reprogram funds from the sheep station, which would result in its closure. Simpson was pleased to learn that the request has been denied. “Because of its location and expertise, experts at the Sheep Experimental Station Dubois are conducting research that no other facility is currently able to do, including unique research on the domestic-wildlife interface that is vital to the future of the sheep industry,” said Simpson. “Closing down the Dubois station would effectively end this important research, and it would be a huge loss to American agriculture, which is why my western colleagues and I are fighting so hard to keep it open.” Last week Congressman Simpson also sent a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, expressing disappointment that neither the USDA nor ARS notified Congress of their intent to close the Dubois center. In the letter, Simpson and other western Members of Congress expressed concern that neither agency has explained how research currently underway in Dubois would be continued. “I’m pleased that we have avoided shutting down the Dubois center for now, but I recognize that this decision does not eliminate the potential threat of future closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station,” Simpson said. “I will continue to work with the USDA, University of Idaho, and members of the sheep industry to ensure the long-term viability of the sheep center at Dubois. It is critical that the sheep industry have a voice in future USDA decisions affecting their economic vitality.”
07.15.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today defended western priorities in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2015. Simpson, a member of the subcommittee, authored a number of provisions that were included in the bill, including language delaying the decision to list the sage-grouse as an endangered species by one year. Simpson successfully fought off efforts to strike this language during full committee consideration today. “What we’re trying to say [with this language] is to give us the time to do the work that is necessary [to prevent the need for a listing].” Simpson said during the markup. “States like Idaho have been working diligently with the BLM and the Fish and Wildlife Service to develop a plan to preserve sage-grouse habitat. Do you know what the biggest threat to it is? Wildfire. Do you know what one of the things is that prevents those rangeland fires from spreading? Grazing. So there are some conflicts that go on here, and…the states and the federal government together are working hard to develop state management plans that [they can both] support. They just need the time to do it.” This is complicated, and the states and the federal government are working together to find plans they can both support—they just need the time to do it.” After the markup was complete, Simpson added, “A decision to list sage-grouse as an endangered species would have wide-reaching and devastating impacts on states like Idaho, and even stakeholders who have been at the table since the beginning of this process, like those in Idaho, are concerned that the court-imposed listing deadline has resulted in less collaboration and rushed decisions. They have acknowledged to me that they need more time to do the good work that will prevent a listing. This is why I once again authored a one-year delay in this bill.” The bill also reflected Simpson’s influence in a number of other provisions, including full funding of wildfire suppression at the 10-year average, provisions improving the grazing permit process, and language prohibited the EPA from implementing controversial regulations over U.S. waters. The bill was voted out of committee this afternoon.
07.10.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced that the Fiscal Year 2015 Energy and Water Development Appropriations which passed the House of Representatives this evening, increases funding for critical programs at the Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “I am pleased to report that the Energy and Water bill increases funding for many of the vital research efforts at INL,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “We’ve worked very hard with the Lab and the people of Eastern Idaho to promote INL, its mission, and its vital workforce as keys to a strong nuclear future here in the U.S. and across the globe. The funding increases contained in the bill will have a lasting impact on enhancing the current capabilities of the Lab and building new, unique capabilities that are essential to a vibrant national laboratory. This bill sends a strong message that INL’s work as the DOE’s lead nuclear energy laboratory is critical to our nation’s energy security.” The FY 2015 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and the report which accompanied the bill laid out the following funding levels for nuclear energy research and development programs: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory, is funded at $206 million – a $20million increase over the President’s request and $9.4 million above last year. Idaho National Laboratory’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $104 million – an increase of $10 million over fiscal year 2014. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $101 million – an increase of nearly $30 million above fiscal year 2014 and $22.8 million above the President’s request. Increases under this program are directed to fully complete the installation of post-irradiation examination equipment at INL’s Irradiated Materials Characterization Laboratory (IMCL). Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $54.5 million. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $35million, an increase of $5 million over FY2014 and the budget request. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $138 million – an increase of $25 million above fiscal year 2014 and $37.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $138 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, $11 million above the budget request. Fuel Cycle Research and Development is funded at $182 million, $4.5 million below fiscal year 2014 and $7 million below the budget request. Within the fuel cycle program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $60.1 million, the same as last year and $17 million above the budget request, and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $55 million, $25 million above fiscal year 2014 and $6 million above the budget request. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $68 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor, an increase of $1.5 million above fiscal year 2014. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $380 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $380 million is an increase of $13 million above the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Finally, $10 million is provided separately for security improvements of spent fuel storage at Fort St. Vrain, Colorado, which is managed by INL. Separate funding will ensure these needs do not impact the progress of ongoing cleanup activities in Idaho. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill continues Nuclear Regulatory Commission funding for a nuclear waste storage facility at Yucca Mountain and to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application. . Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $34 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “The Energy and Water Development bill touches virtually every American in some way and is critical to our nation’s energy and national security,” said Chairman Simpson. "This bill reflects the tough decisions necessitated by our challenging fiscal environment, while placing emphasis where it is needed most: meeting critical national security needs and investing in our nation's infrastructure. It prioritizes the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also funding important infrastructure projects and research that will increase U.S. economic competitiveness and growth." The bill passed the House by a vote of 253-170, and will next be conferenced with the Senate version of the same bill. The complete Committee Report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-113-hr-fy2015-energywater.pdf
07.09.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY15 during subcommittee consideration. The bill takes significant steps to protect western interests and reflects Simpson’s influence as a member of the subcommittee. Among Simpson’s priorities included in the bill is full funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes, a vital program in the west that ensures communities are adequately compensated for the lack of tax revenue due to the presence of federal land. “Every county in Idaho depends on the federal government meeting its obligations through Payments in Lieu of Taxes,” said Simpson. “PILT is essentially the government’s property tax on the federal land it owns, and it needs to be paid in full and on time. I’m pleased that full funding was included in the Interior bill for FY15. I am also committed to fulfilling the promises made to public lands counties in the long-term and will continue working to provide permanent certainty for Idaho’s counties.” The bill also fully funds wildfire suppression at the 10-year average, an increase of $149 million over last year’s levels. During the subcommittee markup, Simpson continued to advocate for fixing the flaws in the process of budgeting for wildfire suppression. Simpson’s separate legislation to end the destructive practice of fire borrowing by treating catastrophic wildfires like similar natural disasters has over 100 cosponsors, including every member of the subcommittee. “We’ve got to [pass this bill] if we want to reduce the costs of wildfires in the future,” he said during the markup. “It doesn’t make sense to continue robbing from programs that remove hazardous fuels in order to pay for wildfire suppression. Hopefully we will be able to get this through Congress this year.” The Interior bill also includes a number of provisions championed by Simpson that benefit Idaho, including: -Language preventing the EPA from dramatically expanding its jurisdiction over state and local water under the Clean Water Act; -Permanent extension of language that allows agencies to renew grazing permits while environmental work is completed; -Language delaying the court-imposed deadline for determining whether to list sage-grouse as an endangered species for one year to enable states and federal agencies to complete work on sage-grouse management plans. -Language prohibiting the EPA from moving forward with economically harmful proposals to regulate greenhouse gases from stationary sources. The bill, which was voice voted out of subcommittee, now moves to full committee consideration.
06.27.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Oregon Congressman Greg Walden, and other western members of Congress have asked the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture to stop the closure of the U.S. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois, Idaho. In a letter, the members ask that Subcommittee Chairman Robert Aderholt not approve the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) request for reprogramming of funds from the sheep station in Dubois. Reprogramming of funds would result in closure of the facility. "We were disappointed to learn that ARS has plans to close the US. Sheep Experimental Station in Dubois and frustrated that ARS did not notify Congress or the sheep industry until the decision had been made," Congressman Simpson said. "In our letter to Chairman Aderholt, we explain that closure of the Dubois Sheep Experiment Station would have a substantial impact on the western sheep industry and express our concern that people involved in the industry were not consulted before ARS made this decision." "I was shocked to learn that the USDA is attempting to close the Dubois Sheep Experiment Station without consulting western farmers and ranchers or having a plan to ensure the station's important research continues,” Congressman Walden said. “No other station conducts research into the unique challenges that confront sheep producers in Oregon and across the west, like grazing techniques, diseases, or developing new breeds. That's why we are working hard with other western representatives to keep this station open so this innovative ag research can continue. Congressman Simpson and Congressman Walden state in the letter that the ARS sheep center at Dubois conducts critical research on the interaction between domestic and bighorn sheep, and that “it would be difficult, if not impossible, for this research to continue if the Dubois center was closed.”
06.26.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson this week supported legislation that will lower energy costs and promote U.S. energy independence. H.R. 3301, the North American Energy Infrastructure Act, eliminates the requirement that oil and gas pipelines and electric transmission lines that cross U.S. borders with Mexico or Canada obtain a Presidential Permit in order to begin such projects. H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, would set a timeframe for the Energy Department to review applications for liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports and to require applicants, as a condition of approval, to publicly disclose the specific export destinations of such LNG exports. H.R. 4899, the Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America That Works Act of 2014, would require at least 25 percent of eligible federal land be made available annually to lease for oil and gas exploration. “Lowering the price Americans pay at the pump and achieving energy independence will lead to a stronger economy and increase our national security,” said Simpson. “Since the Obama Administration took office, they have offered more roadblocks than solutions toward these goals. For example, although our country still heavily relies on imported oil, the Obama Administration continues to block and delay permits for increased domestic energy production on our public lands as well as for job creating oil and gas pipeline projects and increasing LNG exports. These bills will help get us back on the right track.” H.R. 3301, H.R. 6, and H.R. 4899 passed the House with bi-partisan support, and will now move on to consideration in the U.S. Senate.
06.25.2014	The House of Representatives has passed H.R. 1281, the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act, co-authored by Congressman Mike Simpson and Congresswoman Lucile Roybal-Allard (CA). The bill would reauthorize programs for five years while updating and building upon the landmark 2008 Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act first offered by Simpson and Roybal-Allard. “I am so pleased to see the House take up and pass the bipartisan Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act, and I am so grateful to Congresswoman Roybal-Allard for her dedication to this issue. She has truly led the way in making this bill a reality,” said Congressman Simpson. “Though it doesn’t receive a lot of national media attention, it is as important as any bill we will pass this year. Screening detects conditions that are otherwise undetectable at birth and if left untreated can cause disability, developmental delay, illness, or even death.” Congresswoman Roybal-Allard added, “Our collective efforts to rapidly identify and treat these disorders are making a difference between health and disability, and even life and death, for the children affected by these severe diseases.” “Newborn screening allows us to save lives and prevent serious disability,” said March of Dimes President Dr. Jennifer L. Howse. “Given that one in every 300 infants has a condition that can be detected through this screening, newborn screening represents an indispensable investment in health, families, and our economy. The March of Dimes is deeply grateful to Representatives Roybal-Allard and Simpson for their steadfast leadership on this issue vital to newborn and their families.” Newborn screening is run by individual states, but the original 2008 Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act first encouraged states to uniformly test for a recommended set of disorders, and provided resources for individual states to grow their own screening programs. Before that legislation, state screening varied greatly, with only 10 states requiring infants to be screened for all the treatable “core conditions” recommended. Today, most states require screening for at least 29 of the 31 core conditions. The test consists of a simple prick on the heel of newborns before they leave the hospital. That blood sample tests for serious genetic, metabolic, or hearing disorders that may not be apparent at birth. Without the test, parents may have no way of knowing heir child needs treatment. “Besides the obvious benefit to families who suffer an enormous emotional and economic burden when a one of these conditions goes undiagnosed for too long, this legislation is a powerful tool for savings in our already overburdened health care system,” added Simpson. “As a former dentist, I have seen the value of diagnosing and treating a condition early in a child’s life.” One example is found in a 2012 study on severe combined immunodeficiency, known as SCID, which is one of the 31 core conditions recommended for state screening. The Medicaid cost of treating a baby with SCID in the first two years can be $2 million dollars or more. Yet an infant diagnosed early can be cured through a bone marrow transplant in the first three months of life, costing $100,000. Similar legislation has already passed in the U.S. Senate, which will need to take up the House changes before sending it to the President for his signature.
06.20.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the passage of the FY15 Defense Appropriations bill, which included an amendment offered by Representative Candice Miller (R-MI) to prohibit the Department of Defense from spending funds to divest, retire, transfer, or place in storage any A-10 Thunderbolt II aircraft, or to remove any units of the active or reserve component associated with such aircraft. The Air Force has proposed to retire the A-10, and the House Defense Appropriations bill did not include funding for it in its FY15 bill. “I’m very pleased that my colleagues have shown wide recognition and support for the importance of keeping the A-10,” said Simpson. “The A-10’s past combat performance is lauded by both the service members that operate them and those who rely on them for close air support on the battlefield. While I certainly acknowledge that the Air Force must make difficult decisions in this time of reduced budgets, the A-10’s low operating costs and unique capabilities merit our continued support until an appropriate replacement can be identified.” The A-10s based at the headquarters for the Idaho National Guard at Gowen Field in Boise, Idaho, are essential to their mission. The Idaho Delegation has been working with Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter to preserve, extend and expand the mission of the Idaho National Guard. The Defense Appropriations bill passed by a vote of 340-73 and will next proceed to conference with the Senate version of the same bill.
06.18.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Fiscal Year 2015 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill reverses cuts to Idaho National Laboratory, the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, which passed the bill through the full House Appropriations Committee today, and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “I am pleased to report that the Energy and Water bill reverses cuts to nuclear research sought by the Obama Administration and increases funding for many of the vital research efforts at INL,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “We’ve worked very hard with the Lab and the people of Eastern Idaho to promote INL, its mission, and its vital workforce as keys to a strong nuclear future here in the U.S. and across the globe. The funding increases contained in the bill will have a lasting impact on enhancing the current capabilities of the Lab and building new, unique capabilities that are essential to a vibrant national laboratory. This bill sends a strong message that INL’s work as the DOE’s lead nuclear energy laboratory is critical to our nation’s energy security.” The FY 2015 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $899 million, including $104 million for Idaho National Laboratory Safeguards and Security. The $899 million funding level represents an increase of $35.6 million over the President’s request and $10 million over the FY2014 funding level. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $899 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory, is funded at $206 million – a $20 million increase over the President’s request and $9.4 million above last year. Idaho National Laboratory’s Safeguards and Security Program is funded at $104 million – an increase of $10 million over fiscal year 2014. The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program is funded at $101 million – an increase of nearly $30 million above fiscal year 2014 and $22.8 million above the President’s request. Increases under this program are directed to fully complete the installation of post-irradiation examination equipment at INL’s Irradiated Materials Characterization Laboratory (IMCL). Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $54.5 million. This funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho. The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $35 million, an increase of $5 million over FY2014 and the budget request. The Reactor Concepts Research, Development, and Demonstration account is funded at $138 million – an increase of $25 million above fiscal year 2014 and $37.5 million above the President’s request. Within the overall $138 million level for this account, $33 million is allocated to fuel qualification for the High Temperature Gas Reactor, $11 million above the budget request. Fuel Cycle Research and Development is funded at $182 million, $4.5 million below fiscal year 2014 and $7 million below the budget request. Within the fuel cycle program, the Advanced Fuels program is funded at $60.1 million, the same as last year and $17 million above the budget request, and Used Nuclear Fuel Disposition research and development is funded at $55 million, $25 million above fiscal year 2014 and $6 million above the budget request. Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $68 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor, an increase of $1.5 million above fiscal year 2014. Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $380 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $380 million is an increase of $13 million above the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill also includes an additional $2 million for the National Spent Fuel Program, putting the unique expertise of INL to work in order to provide solutions for managing the Department of Energy’s inventories of spent nuclear fuel. Finally, $10 million is provided separately for security improvements of spent fuel storage at Fort St. Vrain, Colorado, which is managed by INL. Separate funding will ensure these needs do not impact the progress of ongoing cleanup activities in Idaho. Despite the Obama Administration’s unilateral decision to disregard the federal government’s legal requirement to take responsibility for civilian spent nuclear fuel, the bill continues Nuclear Regulatory Commission funding for a nuclear waste storage facility at Yucca Mountain and to support the continued adjudication of the Yucca Mountain license application. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $34 billion for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including direction for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “The Energy and Water Development bill touches virtually every American in some way and is critical to our nation’s energy and national security,” said Chairman Simpson. "This bill reflects the tough decisions necessitated by our challenging fiscal environment, while placing emphasis where it is needed most: meeting critical national security needs and investing in our nation's infrastructure. It prioritizes the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also funding important infrastructure projects and research that will increase U.S. economic competitiveness and growth." The bill is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. The complete Committee Report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-113-hr-fy2015-energywater.pdf To view Congressman Mike Simpson’s opening statement visit his YouTube page. ###
06.10.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported final passage of the Fiscal Year 2015 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill, which passed the House 229 to 192. The bill included Simpson’s language increasing truck weights on Idaho Interstates Highways to 129,000 pounds. The increase, above the current allowance of 105,500 pounds, puts Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highway system, which already allows 129,000 pound trucks. The language comes after completion of a comprehensive ten year pilot study in Idaho which found the weight increase would have no significant impact on roadway safety, nor would it impact the structural soundness of Idaho’s bridges or pavement. The increase will actually ease the impact on infrastructure because heavier trucks use more axels and more evenly distribute weight than conventional trucks. It would also mean fewer trips would be required to move the same amount of freight, leading to fewer trucks on the road. “Today was a big step forward for Idaho business and agriculture,” said Simpson. “This language has long been sought by the Governor, the Idaho State Legislature, the Idaho Transportation Department, and business and agriculture throughout Idaho because it will remove the competitive disadvantage Idaho businesses face and generate significant economic activity.” Idaho’s current weight allowance is significantly less than that of neighboring states Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada, causing difficulty for producers who ship goods on the Interstate across and into Idaho. Additionally, heavier trucks are currently allowed to travel all throughout Idaho, but not where they should be travelling – on Idaho’s Interstates. Instead, they are navigating state highways, intersections, pedestrian areas, railroad tracks, and school zones. Meanwhile, there are seven shipments “posted” and ready for pickup for every truck available in Idaho. “This bill puts heavy trucks where they belong, on the Interstate,” added Simpson. “For centuries, our transportation system has been the backbone of our economy, and it remains so today. Our ability to move goods and people safely and efficiently across the country has made our economy the greatest in world history. But today that system is aging, reaching the end of its life in many cases or being stretched beyond what was originally intended. We need to implement common sense reforms to extend our system’s life by making it work even better. This language does that.” The Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations bill will next proceed to conference with the Senate version of the same bill.
06.09.2014	The House Appropriations Committee today released the fiscal year 2015 Energy and Water Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill, which will be considered in subcommittee tomorrow. The legislation provides annual funding for national defense nuclear weapons activities, the Army Corps of Engineers, various programs under the Department of Energy, and other related agencies. The bill totals $34 billion – a $50 million reduction from the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and an increase of $327 million above the President’s request. “The bill holds the line on spending, while prioritizing programs with the highest national need. This includes bolstering our national defense by ensuring the safety and readiness of our nuclear weapons, and increasing economic opportunity with critical infrastructure projects such as those through the Army Corps of Engineers,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said. “This is a well-balanced, responsible bill that reflects thoughtful budget decisions and makes the best use of taxpayer dollars.” Energy and Water Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson also commented on the importance of the bill: "This bill reflects the tough decisions necessitated by our challenging fiscal environment, while placing emphasis where it is needed most: meeting critical national security needs and investing in our nation's infrastructure," Chairman Simpson said. "It prioritizes the maintenance and safety of our nuclear weapons stockpile, while also funding important infrastructure projects and research that will increase U.S. economic competitiveness and growth." A summary of the subcommittee draft of the fiscal year 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations bill follows: The bill totals $34 billion –$50 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and an increase of $327 million above the President’s request. The bill prioritizes funding for our national security, providing increases for nuclear weapons programs above fiscal year 2014. The bill also protects funding for critical national and regional waterways – which handle commerce valued at more than $1.7 trillion annually – through the Army Corps of Engineers, and programs that encourage energy independence and economic competitiveness. To meet these needs, the legislation contains targeted reductions to lower-priority or unnecessary programs. Nuclear Security – The bill provides a total of $11.4 billion for DOE’s nuclear weapons security programs, including Weapons Activities, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and Naval Reactors. This is a $154.6 million increase from the fiscal year 2014 level. This critical national defense funding will allow the U.S. to uphold its nuclear deterrence posture, and prepare for current and future nuclear threats by maintaining the safety and readiness of our nuclear stockpile. This includes: $8.2 billion for Weapons Activities – $423.2 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level; $1.2 billion for Naval Nuclear Reactors – $120.3 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level; and $1.5 billion for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation – $398.8 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and the same as the President’s request. Army Corps of Engineers – The Army Corps of Engineers is funded at $5.5 billion, an increase of $25 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and $959.5 million above the President’s budget request. The bill focuses funding on activities that will have an immediate impact on public safety, job creation and the economy, including those that help ensure our waterways stay open for business. For example, the bill provides: $2.3 billion for navigation projects and studies, including $1.1 billion in funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund to help advance American competitiveness and export ability; and $1.7 billion to support public health and safety by funding flood and storm damage reduction activities – including $326 million for the most critical dam safety improvements. Environmental Cleanup – Included in the legislation is $5.6 billion for environmental management activities, $202.2 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This includes $4.8 billion for Defense Environmental Cleanup to safely clean sites contaminated by previous nuclear weapons production, as well as additional funding for various other non-defense related nuclear sites. Energy Programs – Funding for energy programs within the Department of Energy (DOE) is $10.3 billion – an increase of $113 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. Within this total, the bill prioritizes and increases funding for energy programs that encourage U.S. economic competitiveness and that help advance the nation’s goal of an “all of the above” solution to energy independence. In order to balance investments in all energy sources, research and development to advanced coal, natural gas, oil, and other fossil energy technologies, which will help the country make greater use of our rich natural energy resources and help keep down energy costs, are funded at $593 million – an increase of $30.9 million above the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. In addition, funding for nuclear energy research, development, and demonstration activities is increased by $9.8 million for a total funding level of $899 million. Renewable energy programs, which are funded at $1.8 billion in the bill, are cut by $113 million from last year’s enacted level. Science Research – The bill includes $5.1 billion for science research – the same as the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. This funding will help strengthen the nation’s science and technology innovation by supporting basic energy research, development of high-performance computing systems, and research into the next generation of clean energy sources. This basic research will lay the groundwork for more efficient and practical domestic energy solutions to help reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign oil, and help promote future growth in American businesses and industries. Bureau of Reclamation - The legislation contains $1 billion – $100.7 million below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level and $29 million below the President’s request – for the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation to help manage, develop, and protect the water resources of western states. Yucca Mountain – The bill continues Congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear repository, providing $150 million for the Nuclear Waste Disposal program and $55 million for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to continue the adjudication of DOE’s Yucca Mountain License application. The legislation also denies an Administration proposal for non-Yucca nuclear waste activities. Other policy items: The bill prohibits any changes to federal jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. The bill prohibits any changes to the definition of “fill material” and “discharge of fill material” for the purposes of the Clean Water Act. The bill includes language requiring that proceeds from a recent “test sale” of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) be used only to purchase refill crude oil for the SPR. For the complete text of the subcommittee draft of the FY 2015 Energy and Water Appropriations bill, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/BILLS-113HR-SC-AP-FY2015-EnergyWater-SubcommitteeDraft.pdf
05.29.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s language to include fresh potatoes in the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) nutrition program passed the House Appropriations Committee today. The language was included in the Fiscal Year 2015 House Agriculture Appropriations bill which passed 31-18. Simpson is a member of the committee and voted in favor of the bill. Congressman Simpson’s language allows states to include fresh, white potatoes in the WIC nutrition program administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Congressman Simpson successfully thwarted an attempt to strike his provision from the bill. “Fresh potatoes have been excluded from the WIC program despite their widely known nutritional value,” said Simpson. “This bill corrects the exclusion of fresh potatoes and allows WIC participants to make wholesome food choices for their young families.” Potatoes are currently excluded from the WIC program despite being nutrient dense, affordable, low in calories, and free of fat, cholesterol, and sodium. A medium-sized potato contains more potassium than a banana and is a good source of dietary fiber—both of which are “nutrients of concern,” meaning those nutrients most lacking in Americans’ diets, according to USDA’s current Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The bill now awaits consideration by the full House of Representatives. To view Congressman Simpson defending fresh potatoes in the House Appropriations Committee, visit https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CA2Ivy2YvMs&feature=youtu.b
05.06.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a majority of Congress in sending a letter to the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers expressing concerns with and strong opposition to the proposed rule re-defining the power of the federal government under the Clean Water Act. The letter raises a number of serious flaws with the rule and asks the agencies to withdraw it. The letter states that the rule “would assert Clean Water Act jurisdiction over nearly all areas with any hydrologic connection to downstream navigable waters, including man-made conveyances such as ditches…Although your agencies have maintained that the rule is narrow and clarifies CWA jurisdiction, it in fact aggressively expands federal authority under the CWA while bypassing Congress and creating unnecessary ambiguity. Moreover, the rule is based on incomplete scientific and economic analyses.” The letter continues, “The rule is flawed in a number of ways. The most problematic of these flaws concerns the significant expansion of areas defined as ‘waters of the U.S.’ by effectively removing the word ‘navigable’ from the definition of the CWA…this rule would place features such as ditches, ephemeral drainages, ponds (natural or man-made), prairie potholes, seeps, flood plains, and other occasionally or seasonally wet areas under federal control.” “This rule has been built on an incomplete scientific study and a flawed economic analysis,” concludes the letter. “We therefore ask you to formally return this rule to your agencies.” The bipartisan letter was signed by 231 Members of Congress, including a number of Chairmen and Ranking Members of congressional committees of jurisdiction over the issue. Simpson chairs the House Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development Appropriations, which oversees the budget of the Corps, and is the vice-chairman of the subcommittee that writes EPA’s budget.
05.06.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a new member of the House Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations Subcommittee, has secured language in the Fiscal Year 2015 THUD Bill to allow trucks weighing up to 129,000 pounds on Idaho Interstates. This increase, up from the current allowance of 105,500 pounds, would put Idaho in line with neighboring states and with Idaho’s state highways, which currently allow trucks up to 129,000 pounds. This language comes after completion of a ten-year comprehensive Idaho study which found the weight increase would have no significant impact on roadway safety, nor would it significantly impact the structural soundness of Idaho’s bridges or pavement. “I am pleased to see this important language included in the House bill today. This increase has long been sought by the State of Idaho because it would remove the competitive disadvantage the state currently faces,” said Simpson. “This will be a major generator of economic activity in Idaho, and I am thankful that THUD Appropriations Chairman Latham included this provision in the bill.” Idaho’s current allowed weight of 105,500 pounds is significantly less than neighboring states like Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada. This has made it difficult for Idaho producers to ship goods to, from, and through the state. A higher weight limit means trucks will have more axels than traditional trucks, distributing the weight in such a way that there is less weight on each axel than a standard truck. It also would reduce the number of trucks on the road. “For centuries, our transportation system has been the backbone of our economy. Our ability to move goods and people safely and efficiently across the country has made our economy the greatest in world history. But today that system is aging, reaching the end of its life in many cases or being stretched beyond what was originally intended. We need to implement common sense reforms to extend our system’s life by making it work even better. This language does that,” Said Simpson. “By ensuring that Idaho’s vehicle laws match those of its neighboring states, Idaho can more efficiently play a larger role in transferring goods without impacting safety.” The bill will be marked up by the THUD subcommittee on Wednesday, and will then go to the full Appropriations Committee for consideration, before going to the House floor.
04.30.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of H.R. 4486, the Fiscal Year 2015 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. The annual funding bill, which funds the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), included an increase of $1.5 billion for veterans programs in FY15. “This bill includes the necessary funding that our veterans have earned through their service and commitment to protecting our freedoms,” said Congressman Simpson. “The bill fulfills our moral and legal obligations to our veterans and also focuses heavily on fixing the unacceptable backlog of disability claims. It puts our priorities where they should be—providing essential medical care to veterans.” H.R. 4486 continues efforts to end the disability claim backlog and increase efficiency by providing funding for digital scanning of health records and requiring timely and accurate data exchange between the VA and the Department of Defense. Though the bill significantly boosts veterans programs, it acknowledges fiscal realities by reducing discretionary funding by $1.8 billion without impacting troops or veterans projects or services. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 416 to 1.
04.14.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has other Western Members of Congress in urging House leadership to fully fund the federal government’s obligations to counties with a high percentage of federal land. They recently sent a letter to leadership pushing for full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. PILT compensates local governments for the loss of income due to the presence of federal land in their state or county, since the federal government does not pay property taxes. Full funding for PILT payments was extended in the Farm Bill but expires at the end of the current fiscal year. “For almost 40 years, PILT payments have provided compensation to local governments to offset the loss of tax revenues that result from the presence of federal lands within their jurisdictions,” the letter states. “PILT payments are distributed to 49 different states and nearly 2,000 counties throughout the nation.” It continues, “In Fiscal Year 2013, the national average for PILT payments was 66 cents per acre. This figure pales in comparison to the amount of revenues that would be generated for states and local governments if economic development and value-based taxation was allowed to occur on these lands. The federal government has an obligation to reimburse local governments for large quantities of federal lands found within their jurisdiction.” The letter was signed by 51 Members of Congress. Simpson, who is vice-chairman on the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, has long supported permanent full funding of PILT.
04.10.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined Chairman Paul Ryan in passing the Fiscal Year(FY) 2015 House Budget Resolution. This is the fourth straight year the House Republicans have passed a budget since taking the majority. The bill is the only proposal that lays out a path to a balanced budget in ten years and ultimately eliminates the national debt by fundamentally reforming mandatory spending programs, expanding opportunities for economic growth, and curtailing spending. H.Con.Res. 96 passed 219-205. The resolution, H.Con.Res. 96, would cut spending by $5.1 trillion over the next ten years while mandating an overall spending cap in line with the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 at $1.014 trillion for FY 2015. “The national debt, currently at more than $17.5 trillion, is the biggest threat to our country and the biggest damper on the economy. This plan would put us on a path to solve it,” said Simpson, who is chairman of the Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations. “It also shows the American people that House Republicans are going to take on the biggest challenges facing our country and offer our solutions.” President Obama’s budget, released last month, spends more than last winter’s Bipartisan Budget Resolution allowed, breaking the cap put in place by Republicans and Democrats. In addition, it never balances the budget. The Senate Democrats have already indicated they do not plan to take up a budget resolution this year. “I hope the opponents of this bill, particularly the Senate Democrats, would offer up their own budget - something they have done only once in the last five years,” added Simpson.
04.04.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson talked sage-grouse and wolves this week during hearings on the budget request for the Department of Interior. During the hearing, Simpson, a member of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, responded harshly to criticisms by Democrats of the decision to remove wolves from the endangered species list and Idaho’s management of wolf populations. “You have got to remember that these wolves were reintroduced as a nonessential, experimental population. Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming have complied with the requirements when they were reintroduced and it has now gone over to state management,” said Simpson. “ Anyone that believed that we were actually going to reintroduce wolves into this environment and they weren’t going to explode in numbers and that we weren’t going it have to manage them like we do other species, was living in a fantasy world.” To stress the impact wolves have on ranchers and families in Idaho Simpson told the Committee, “I’ll bring you a picture… and it’s of the 200 sheep that were killed, the five dogs, and the horse that were killed in one night, by wolves in Idaho.” To watch Simpson express these concerns to the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee today, visit his YouTube website. Simpson also criticized proposals in the BLM’s budget to dramatically increase fees for grazing on public lands, pointing out that the issue needs to be discussed holistically and not just focused on the fact that fees may be lower on BLM lands than on some state lands. “Just comparing the prices of what we charge for AUMs on federal lands versus state lands isn’t really a good comparison,” he admonished. “I talk to ranchers who have allotments on both state and federal lands, and they prefer to graze on state lands even though they may cost more because of the headache of dealing with federal agencies and issues on federal lands.” The rest of Simpson’s comments focused on the approaching September 15 deadline for determining whether the sage-grouse warrants listing as an endangered species. Both BLM Deputy Director Neil Kornze and Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe praised the State of Idaho’s efforts in crafting a good state management plan. Simpson pushed the agencies to continue listening to state and local officials. “You say that the BLM and the Forest Service sit down with the Fish and Wildlife Service regularly in Idaho,” he said, “But are they coordinating with the state people? There is concern that there is agreement in the state but that it gets screwed up when it gets back to DC.” The House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee oversees the budget for public lands agencies, including the Forest Service, the BLM, and the Fish and Wildlife Service.
04.03.2014	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 2575, legislation to eliminate the language in Obamacare defining a full-time worker as someone who works more than 30-hours per week. The bill passed the House with a vote of 248 to 197. Congressman Simpson was a cosponsor of this legislation. The 30-hour work week language in Obamacare was apparently intended to prevent employers from skirting the employer mandate which says any company with more than 50 full-time workers must offer health insurance. Instead, it will have the opposite effect, with more workers receiving less hours, and being at risk of losing their job. “There are many parts of Obamacare that are damaging to the economy, this 30-hour work week is just one of many,” added Simpson. “Let’s face it; Americans understand that full-time means 40 hours, despite what the Administration is trying to tell them.” A study by the Hoover Institution at Stanford University has shown that the 30-hour rule puts 2.6 million workers with median incomes of under $30,000 at risk of losing hours or their job. It also showed that most workers impacted are without college degrees, and a majority are women. “Any time you try a fundamental shift in labor law like this, there are significant consequences,” said Simpson. “This new 30-hour work week would lead to workers’ hours being cut, less jobs for middle and lower income workers, reduced productivity, and more disadvantages for American businesses who already face the challenges of a competitive global marketplace.” Last year the Obama Administration unilaterally delayed enforcement of the employer mandate, and with it the 30-hour work week, until 2015. However, employers have already begun to prepare. A recent U.S. Chamber of Commerce survey of small businesses found that 71% of small businesses say they will either cut hours or reduce employees and move more employees to part-time status to avoid the Obamacare mandate.
04.02.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today discussed funding for wildfire suppression with Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell. Tidwell testified on the Forest Service’s FY15 budget request before the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Simpson serves. They talked at length about Simpson’s legislation to end the practice of fire borrowing as a way to pay for wildfire suppression. When Simpson questioned Chief Tidwell about perceived concerns about his proposal, Tidwell confirmed that it would not provide more discretionary funding, but would instead allow the agencies to budget better for both fire suppression and forest management. “Really what we’re trying to do is to not decimate non-fire budgets with fire borrowing,” said Simpson. “We’re either going to pay for fires by taking the money from other budgets and try to repay them later, which doesn’t work, or we are going to find a better way to manage this account.” Simpson thanked the Forest Service for the good work it did during fires in Ketchum last summer. “There is absolutely no reason some of those homes should still be standing, except for the good work that your people did in protecting them,” he said. But he also warned Chief Tidwell that unless his wildfire disaster funding proposal passed, the Forest Service would be in worse shape under the President’s budget request than it is now. After the hearing, Simpson reiterated the importance of managing these accounts in a way that doesn’t rob non-fire accounts each year. “We need to be able to manage federal lands. In order to manage them, we need to stop using funding intended for land management to fight fires. This is a devastating cycle and is destroying our forests. I’m hopeful my bill will pass so Congress can write a reasonable and responsible wildfire fighting budget.”
03.27.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson hosted leaders of the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) in two hearings before the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee to discuss Fiscal Year 2015 budget issues. Simpson, who chairs the subcommittee, oversees the budgets for the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation. Testifying for the Army Corps of Engineers was Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works Jo-Ellen Darcy and Chief of Engineers Lieutenant General Thomas Bostick. Acting Commissioner Lowell Pimley testified for the Bureau of Reclamation. Regarding the navigable waters rule, Simpson said, “It is stunning to me that the Administration claims this proposed rule is supported by science, but that’s hard to believe when you look at the sequence of events.” After the hearing, Simpson said, “The Obama Administration clearly wants to use its regulatory agenda to control every drop of water in the country. This is completely unacceptable and an infringement on state rights.” In the Bureau of Reclamation hearing, Simpson talked about maintaining aging water infrastructure with flat budgets, future year planning, and BOR's work with the Corps to study the possibility of increasing water storage at the Ririe Reservoir in Bonneville County, Idaho. “It would seem we—the executive branch and legislative branch together—have some tough decisions to make,” said Simpson. “Either we reevaluate the number and breadth of actions we promise to deliver or, if these really are strong national priorities compared to national priorities in other policy areas, we figure out a way to better reflect that in Reclamation’s budget.” In the Army Corps hearing, Simpson also expressed concern that the Administration has not been following congressional direction in implementing the civil works program.
03.27.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today blasted the Environmental Protection Agency over the rule it proposed earlier this week to expand the Obama Administration’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy was scheduled to testify before the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Simpson is a member, on the FY15 budget request, but the controversial proposed rule dominated discussion. During the hearing, Full Committee Chairman Hal Rogers vowed that the EPA’s attempts to drastically expand its authority would fall flat in Congress and that much of the fight would take place in the Appropriations Committee. Simpson didn’t hesitate in expressing his complete opposition to the proposed rule. “You say you want to create certainty,” he said during his comments, “but you just fired the first shot over the bow in the west, because this is war. Water is obviously vitally important in Idaho.” He added, “Just because the EPA or the Army Corps doesn’t regulate it under the current rule doesn’t mean that it isn’t regulated. The states regulate it.” Simpson also complained that the EPA chose to issue the proposed rule before the Science Advisory Board has completed its review of the science on the connection between water bodies, which is one of the major issues at stake in the new proposal. “Why would you issue this proposed rule prior to getting the results of the science advisory board? It tells me two things . . . either one, you don’t care what they are going to say, or two, you already know what they are going to say.” He continued, “You’re going out for 90 days of public review, but the public won’t have this information in time to give a legitimate comment.” Simpson has joined a number of other westerners in signing a letter to the EPA expressing deep concerns about the proposed rule and asking EPA to withdraw it. Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 3377, the Defense of Environment and Property Act of 2013, which would clearly define “navigable waters” to prevent either the EPA or the Corps of Engineers from impinging on state’s power over land and water use.
03.26.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson discussed the need to budget accurately for wildfire suppression costs and concerns about a possible sage-grouse listing with the Secretary of Interior. Secretary Sally Jewell testified before the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, on which Simpson sits, regarding the Department of Interior’s budget request for FY15. Simpson’s bill, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, was a main topic of conversation during the hearing. The bill aims to end the current practice of “fire borrowing,” where agencies must transfer money from non-fire accounts when fire suppression costs exceed the budget. The bill would fund catastrophic wildfires, which are 1% of all wildfires but make up 30% of the cost, similarly to other natural disasters, like hurricanes, earthquakes, and floods. The budget request includes similar language. “It’s important for people to understand that we aren’t trying to spend more money on wildfires. We already spend whatever it takes,” said Simpson. “What we want to do is stop borrowing money from other accounts to pay for fire suppression. We need to get this wildfire fighting bill done.” Simpson also expressed concern about the pending decision of whether or not to list sage-grouse as an endangered species and the states’ role in that process. “Some of the states are complaining that they aren’t being involved as much as they thought they would be,” he chided Jewell. “They have concerns that the Department is not fully engaged with the states in looking at state management plans.” The hearing also focused on the need to find long-term funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program and drought issues in the West.
03.25.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the accomplishments of four Idaho schools that are advancing to the 2014 National Science Bowl Finals after winning their respective regional competitions. Idaho’s Second Congressional District is the only district to send four schools to the National Finals. The Idaho teams that won their regional qualifying competitions are: Mackay Junior-Senior High School (Middle School) Idaho Falls High School Boise High School Treasure Valley Math and Science Center (Middle School) “I am impressed that our students in Idaho are leading the way in science,” said Simpson. “It is no secret that science is an important aspect of any child’s education and we certainly understand the significance of this in Idaho where employers such as Idaho National Laboratory and Micron Technology covet these valuable skills. These students have a very bright future and I wish them the best of luck in the National Finals.” A series of regional middle school and high school tournaments were held across the country from January through March. The competition is managed by the DOE’s Office of Science. More information is available on the National Science Bowl website: http://www.science.energy.gov/wdts/nsb/. The National Science Bowl finals will be held from April 24-28 in Washington, D.C.
03.25.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson expressed concern over the proposed rule issued today by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Army Corps of Engineers regarding the agencies’ Clean Water Act jurisdiction. “I have long feared that the Obama Administration would use this issue to infringe on state sovereignty, and under this proposal those fears appear to be coming true,” said Simpson. “While more time will be required to analyze the details of the EPA’s proposed rule, it would essentially give the Obama Administration much broader jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act—something I simply can’t support. In addition, I find it utterly ridiculous that the EPA has decided to issue a proposed rule before the scientific review of the connection between water bodies is complete. That says to me that the Obama Administration isn’t interested in the facts, but simply in grabbing power wherever it can.” Simpson chairs the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over the Corps’ budget, and sits on the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the EPA. “Both the EPA Administrator and the leaders of the Army Corps will be coming before my subcommittees later this week,” said Simpson. “I am confident that this issue will be a major point of discussion, which will give my colleagues and I an opportunity to make clear our commitment to defeating this proposal.”
03.25.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today held his first two hearings as Chairman of the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee to discuss budget issues with officials from the Department of Energy. The first hearing was focused on the Department of Energy’s Applied Energy Programs, with Assistant Secretaries from the Offices of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, Nuclear Energy, Fossil Energy, and Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability testifying. The second hearing was focused on the Department of Energy’s Office of Science, with Acting Director Dr. Patricia Dehmer testifying. In the first hearing, Simpson discussed recent announcements regarding the Small Modular Reactor program, the Department’s emergency response capability related to extreme events that affect the electricity grid, and funding for Safeguards and Security at the Idaho National Lab. He also noted that the Obama Administration has once again proposed a significant increase for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy while proposing to reduce Fossil Energy and Nuclear Energy. “Your programs account for more than $3.8 billion of the Department’s budget request for fiscal year 2015. I must note that while the request is more balanced than last year, the two accounts—Nuclear and Fossil—which Congress increased last year received reductions,” said Simpson. “To the extent that the President is serious about an ‘all of the above’ energy strategy, I would hope that this is the last year we see this imbalance in the request.” In the Office of Science hearing, Simpson talked about working towards scientific breakthroughs with a flat budget, transitioning away from awarding multi-year grants that “mortgage” future year appropriations, and practical examples of how investments in science programs are a good use of taxpayer dollars. “Your program has, of course, generally received broad bipartisan support,” said Simpson. “However, as budgets continue to be constrained, you and your colleagues will have to work even harder to find ways to illustrate the importance of your programs as they compete with others for funding.” After the hearings, Simpson said, “Our budget situation will require us to make difficult decisions. I am mindful of the importance that these programs hold not just for American industrial competitiveness, but also for the comfort, safety, and well-being of all of our constituents. But we need to set careful priorities and do more with the limited resources available, and always remain mindful of what the role of the private sector is or should be in making these investments.”
03.21.2014	Idaho Congressman Simpson is pleased the Mexican government published its final rule allowing the importation of fresh potatoes from the United States. “Since the Market Access Agreement was signed by the U.S. and Mexico in 2003, I have consistently urged the USTR, USDA and White House to sustain efforts encouraging Mexico to meet its commitment and allow full market access for U.S. fresh potatoes,” said Simpson. “I am pleased the Mexican government has issued its final rule allowing full market access for U.S. fresh potatoes.” In 2003, the United States and Mexico signed a market access agreement that allowed for the shipment of U.S. fresh potatoes into a 26-kilometer area along the border of Mexico. The agreement called for increased access to the five northern Mexican states in 2004 and for consideration of full access by 2005. However, Mexico has continued to limits shipments of U.S. potatoes to areas within 26 kilometers of the border. In 2012, the Mexican government started its rulemaking process to allow of the expansion U.S. fresh potato trade between the two countries. The original regulation is available at: http://www.dof.gob.mx/nota_detalle.php?codigo=5337533&fecha=19/03/2014 A translated version is available at: http://nationalpotatocouncil.org/files/3813/9531/6659/031914.COFEMER.pdf The USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is expected to publish its final rule in the Federal Register next week. Shipments of potatoes between the U.S. and Mexico should begin in May.
03.14.2014	Idaho Congressman Simpson is the Republican lead on a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack expressing disapproval of the USDA decision to continue the exclusion of potatoes in the final WIC rule. Today 67 bipartisan members of Congress signed Simpson’s letter expressing disappointment with the Obama Administration’s disregard for the very clear direction from Congress to include fresh, white potatoes in the WIC program. The members of Congress ask Secretary Vilsack to revisit his decision based on current nutrition science and the direction of Congress. “I am deeply disappointed in the USDA’s decision to ignore legislation that directed the agency to include fresh potatoes in the WIC Program,” said Simpson. “This letter further demonstrates the congressional support for including potatoes in the WIC program, and I will continue to ask the Administration to reconsider their decision. I intend to use every means available to me, and any possible legislative vehicle that develops, to reverse this ban and restore the rightful inclusion of nutritious fresh, white potatoes in the WIC program.” You may view the bipartisan letter to Secretary Vilsack here.
03.13.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation passed by the House of Representatives to protect water rights against overreach by the federal government. Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3189, the Water Rights Protection Act, which prohibits agencies from requiring the transfer of privately-held water rights to the federal government in order to obtain a permit to use federal land. The House passed the bill by a vote of 238-174. In a number of recent cases, the U.S. Forest Service has attempted to circumvent state water law by requiring those applying for a permit from the agency to turn over their privately-held water rights to the federal government. H.R. 3189 would protect both privately-held water rights and state water laws by prohibiting federal water takings. Simpson included a similar provision in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY14 when he chaired the subcommittee. Unfortunately, the U.S. Senate blocked that language from the final bill. “The Forest Service has no authority to force someone to hand state-issued and privately-held water-rights to the federal government,” said Simpson. “In Idaho, threatening water rights is basically an attack on our way of life, and I won’t stand for the federal government trying to hijack water rights as a condition for issuing a permit. If there was ever an argument for the supremacy of state water law, this is it, and I am pleased that the House has made this point by passing H.R. 3189.” H.R. 3189 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
03.12.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today cosponsored legislation to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from releasing personal data on livestock producers to the public. The bill responds to an incident last year in which EPA released personal data, including names, telephone numbers, and email addresses, on a number of agricultural operations when responding to a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). H.R. 4157, the Farmer Identity Protection Act, would prohibit the EPA from releasing such data when complying with FOIA requests. “There is absolutely no reason that the EPA should release farmers’ personal data to anyone,” said Simpson. “This incident was a serious breach of the EPA’s responsibility to protect privacy. What is more, allowing specific GPS coordinates and other information to get into the wrong hands could pose a serious threat to farmers and industry. It is critical that we ensure that this breach of confidence can never happen again.” Simpson included similar language in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY2014 when he chaired the subcommittee. Unfortunately, the United States Senate blocked inclusion of the language in the final bill. H.R. 4157 is currently under committee consideration. Similar legislation has been introduced in the United States Senate.
03.12.2014	Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4138, the “Executive Needs to Faithfully Oversee and Respect Congressional Enactments,” known as the ENFORCE the Law Act of 2014. This legislation authorizes the House or Senate to sue the administration for failing to enforce federal law. Idaho Congressman Simpson supported this legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 233-181. “The Obama Administration has a habit of ignoring the will of Congress, defying the Constitution, and unilaterally changing laws. This bill allows Congress to bring legal action against the Administration for this practice,” said Simpson. There have been several high profile examples of the Obama Administration failing to enforce the law—including delaying the Obamacare employer mandate; refusing to enforce U.S. immigration laws; the illegal HHS mandate violating employers’ conscience rights; “recess” appointments; suspending federal criminal laws; and granting welfare work requirement waivers in violation of the 1996 welfare reform law H.R. 4138 puts a procedure in place to permit the House or Senate to authorize a lawsuit against the Executive Branch for failure to faithfully execute the laws. It also sets up an expedited consideration process to ensure that when a lawsuit is brought, the courts not only grant Congress standing, but also hear the case quickly to prevent the President from stalling the litigation.
03.06.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from issuing harmful greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations. H.R. 3826, the Electricity Security and Affordability Act, would provide guidance to the EPA on its proposed GHG emissions regulations to ensure that any new regulations are reasonably achievable and economically viable. Simpson, who chairs the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, joined a majority of the House in passing the bill by a vote of 229-183. “The Obama Administration clearly wants to use its regulatory agenda to end coal-fired power generation in this country, but that is a pipe dream—coal makes up 40% of our nation’s energy supply, a number that is not likely to significantly decrease in the decades to come,” said Simpson. “That’s why Congress rejected legislatively regulating GHG back in 2009, and why the EPA keeps delaying its radical regulatory proposals. These proposals would dramatically increase the cost of energy and force consumers to foot the bill.” H.R. 3826 would require the EPA to establish separate GHG standards for natural gas and coal-fired plants, and it would ensure that any standards for coal-fire plants are based on proven technology and achievable emissions reduction goals. The bill would also repeal EPA’s proposed rules for new power plants. “One of my biggest concerns with the EPA’s GHG proposals is that they depend on unproven—or in some cases non-existent—technology to achieve reductions in emissions. In many cases these technologies are cost prohibitive, and of course the ultimate end of these regulations would be to eliminate coal-generated electricity all-together. That’s just not realistic,” said Simpson. “Instead, we need to continue working to develop technologies to produce cleaner coal energy, as well as clean, alternative fuels. Achieving sustainable energy independence will require looking at all the options, including renewable energy, nuclear energy, and cleaner traditional energy sources.” “And I strongly believe,” Simpson added, “that Congress is the appropriate venue for this debate. That’s why I support efforts like H.R. 3826, which impose reasonable guidelines on the Obama Administration’s regulatory agenda.”
03.06.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported H.R. 4118, the SIMPLE Fairness Act, which would eliminate the Obamacare individual mandate penalty tax for 2014. The Obama Administration has already unilaterally delayed the employee mandate, so it is only fair to extend relief to all Americans. The bill passed the House this week 250 to 160, with 27 Democrats joining the majority. “We need to give some breathing room from this burdensome law to American families by delaying the individual mandate. Estimates show that some Americans are about to see their insurance premiums increase 100%. This new penalty tax will only add to the burden.” Under the individual mandate, if Americans do not purchase a health insurance plan through an exchange, receive insurance through Medicaid, or receive employer sponsored coverage, they are subject to a new tax. The vote comes on the heels of yet another announcement by the Obama Administration that it will alter another major provision of Obamacare without congressional consent. Despite insisting for years that Americans would be able to keep their health plans, the administration is now seemingly admitting that is not the case and has moved to grandfather existing plans, which would have been cancelled by Obamacare, for an additional two years. “It looks like election year politics to me,” said Congressman Simpson. “Rather than trying to work with Congress to fix the law, the administration is simply rewriting it to avoid the political repercussions of millions of Americans losing their health insurance plans in an election year.” H.R. 4118 now moves to the Senate for consideration. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration, where unfortunately almost 195 House passed bills are currently being held up by the Democratic majority. A comprehensive list of those bills can be viewed here http://majorityleader.gov/bill-tracker/.
02.28.2014	The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) released its final rule today excluding fresh, white potatoes from the Women, Infants and Children (WIC) nutrition program. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson plans to use every available tool in order to reverse the ban of potatoes in the program. “I am deeply disappointed in the USDA’s decision to ignore legislation that directed the agency to include fresh potatoes in the WIC Program,” said Simpson. “Congress’ support of potatoes in WIC is crystal clear and I intend to use every means available to me, and any possible legislative vehicle that develops, to reverse this ban and restore the rightful inclusion of white potatoes in the WIC program.” “Excluding white potatoes from WIC seems based more on selective science than substance,” said Congressman Robert Aderholt, Chairman of the House Appropriations Agriculture Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the US Department of Agriculture and WIC funding. “My expectation is that the USDA should use base line data that is more current than the 1990's to make such sweeping decisions. This issue is far from over and we will see what happens as the process moves forward.” The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (H.R. 3547) that recently became law was accompanied by a clear directive outlining the expectation of Congress that all fresh vegetables be included in the WIC program: “The agreement expects the Secretary to amend 7 CFR 246.10 in order for state agencies to include all varieties of fresh, whole, or cut vegetables, except for vegetables with added sugars, fats, oils; provided that inclusion of such vegetables contribute towards meeting the special nutritional needs of program participants and increases the availability of low-cost, high nutrient alternatives for participants throughout the year. Within 15 days of any decision not to comply, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committees explaining such decision.” USDA failed to incorporate its own nutritional recommendations in its final WIC rule. For example, fresh white potatoes would supplement the diets of WIC participants with two of the four USDA Dietary Guidelines “nutrients of concern” – potassium and dietary fiber. “When the Obama Administration ignored the latest nutritional science in developing the WIC rule, it was the responsibility of Congress to do everything in its power to allow low-income women and children continued access to healthy and economical nutrition choices. That’s what we did.” Simpson said. “I have requested repeatedly that the Administration use current USDA Dietary Guidelines (DGA) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) consumption data when devising rules that affect the ability of low-income women to make smart nutritional choices for their young families. Unfortunately, it appears the Administration is not listening.”
02.28.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today introduced legislation to prevent the U.S. Attorney General from arbitrarily blocking the importation of commonly owned and used firearms by American citizens. The “Firearm Importation Fairness Act of 2014” clarifies the standard required for the importation of sporting arms into the United States. “For years Americans have been barred from importing ‘non-sporting purposes’ firearms—these firearms are already legal in the United States” Simpson said. “The Obama Administration has taken this a step further by drastically restricting these firearms. This bill would change that by allowing Americans to import the same type of firearms that are legal to manufacture and sell in the US. It also recognizes the fundamental right of self-defense and prevents discriminatory treatment of law-abiding citizens.” The 1968 Gun Control Act authorizes the Attorney General to import firearms if he finds them “generally suitable for or readily adaptable to sporting purposes.” However, there is no enumerated definition of a “sporting purpose” in U.S. law. This has impeded the importation of firearms that should be available for lawful purposes including hunting, self-defense, competitive shooting and plinking. This practice has also interfered with citizens’ constitutional rights, and diminished consumer choice. Moreover, these interpretations have prevented the importation of firearms that are legal to manufacture, sell, and own in the United States. This legislation prohibits the Attorney General from arbitrarily determining what firearms can be imported into the U.S. and ensures that any guns that are legal to produce by U.S. manufacturers would also be legal for a U.S. citizen to import. Simpson’s legislation would not apply to National Firearms Act (NFA) firearms or undetectable firearms, which would remain excluded from the import standard. Simpson’s legislation is supported by the National Rifle Association (NRA). “This is common-sense legislation that helps create a uniform standard for the import of firearms for sale to law-abiding gun owners. Under current law, the Attorney General can arbitrarily ban an entire class of commonly owned firearms, just because they were manufactured overseas—even when identical, domestically made counterparts to those firearms are legal for civilian ownership. On behalf of our 5 million members, I’d like to thank Congressman Simpson for his leadership on this issue and his steadfast commitment to our Second Amendment freedoms.” said Chris W. Cox, executive director of the NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action.
02.26.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson received the Nuclear Energy Research and Development Policymaker of the 113th Congress Award. The Policymaker Award was initiated by 27 members of the Nuclear Energy Institute’s Summit Coordinating Committee to recognize leaders serving the nation in public office who have demonstrated exceptional support for research and development in nuclear energy technology. Simpson chairs the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. Jeffrey Crater, Vice President for Government Relations for the Babcock and Wilcox Company, presented the award to Congressman Simpson. “Chairman Simpson is being recognized for his vision and leadership in championing the advancement of nuclear power technology, as well as his continued support of innovative research at universities, throughout the U.S. Department of Energy laboratories and within private industry,” said Crater. “What I appreciate most about Mike Simpson is his clear and open mind recognizing we need all sources of energy to ensure a better and more independent energy future, away from those regions in the world with individuals who want to do harm to Americans,” Crater said. “Make no mistake about it: Eastern Idahoans and our great nation need Mike Simpson’s strong leadership in Congress to solve energy challenges we face that are vital to our energy and national security.” The Nuclear Energy R&D Summit was sponsored by the Nuclear Energy Institute as a forum for industry, academic and government leaders to discuss technical, environmental, economic, political and regulatory issues surrounding the nuclear energy industry. It is being held in Washington, DC, on February 25th and 26th. In accepting the award, Simpson said, “Like each of you, I believe nuclear energy must be an integral and growing part of our nation’s energy portfolio in the coming decades. I am proud of the work you all do to advance that cause, and of my state’s own Idaho National Laboratory, which helps to lead the nation in the critical research required to advance new nuclear technologies that are inherently safe, produce less waste, and are more efficient.” “As Chairman of the Energy and Water Subcommittee, it is my job to ensure that we focus our resources on investments that will have near and long-term return for taxpayers and move our nation toward energy independence sooner rather than later,” Simpson said. “I look forward to working with you all to ensure that DOE investments are more impactful, to make sure they’re resulting in significant advancements in technological development, environmental quality, and energy security.”
02.26.2014	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported passage of H.R. 3865, the Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act of 2014. This legislation prohibits for one year a proposal by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to unilaterally change the regulations, in place for fifty years, which allow certain organizations to engage in political activities. The bill passed 243 to 176. “It is clear that this proposed regulation by the Obama Administration would primarily impact conservative organizations, without impacting labor unions,” said Simpson. “It is an attempt to suppress the political activity of the Administration’s opponents. This legislation would stop it.” The proposed regulation would impact 501(c)(4) organizations by redefining non-partisan voter registration and candidate forum activities as political campaign intervention. 501(c)(4) organizations are non-profit groups like civic leagues and volunteer fire departments that are primarily engaged in promoting social welfare. However, 501(c)(4)’s can engage in political activity, so long as the majority of their money is spent on social welfare. Many conservative organizations are registered as 501(c)(4)’s. The change proposed by the Obama Administration could result in many of these organizations, including many conservative groups, losing their tax exempt status. Notably, the regulation, as revealed by the Administration, would not apply to 501(c)(3) charitable organizations or 501(c)(5) unions. This change comes on the heels of a scandal at the IRS in which conservative groups were targeted for increased scrutiny in seeking tax exempt status. The House has also previously passed H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013, to prevent the IRS from enforcing any provision of Obamacare. The investigation into the targeting of conservative groups at the IRS is still ongoing.
02.06.2014	“If you like your current insurance, you keep that insurance. Period. End of Story.” “It turns out that wasn’t the end of the story. By now we all know this promise made by President Obama, repeated dozens of times in recent years, is not true. It’s been called “the lie of the year.” As Obamacare rolls out, Americans are learning it firsthand as cancellation letters arrive in the mail. In fact, more people have lost their insurance (about 4.7 million) than have purchased new insurance plans through the exchanges (about 2.2 million). Promise broken. “Of course, this dubious claim is just one of many going unfulfilled as Obamacare’s many regulations are implemented. “I’ve warned Idahoans for years that Obamacare would lead to rationing and longer waiting times. Unfortunately, these predictions are coming true. In their latest “report card,” the American College of Emergency Physicians lowered the nation’s previous C- rating to a D+, indicating that access, quality, and injury prevention and preparedness scores are declining as Obamacare adds more pressure on the system. President Obama claimed Obamacare would increase access and quality, yet by every measure we continue going in the wrong direction. Promise broken. “Who can forget the now infamous claim, “If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor”? As people learn that they can no longer use their regular doctor, many can’t find one who accepts their new plan. For most Americans, keeping their doctor is not an economic issue, but a personal one. In fact, the mother of one of my own staffers was recently told she can no longer make appointments at her eye-doctor of 42 years without first being referred by her primary care doctor. I am hearing similar stories from people all across Idaho. Promise broken. “Obamacare’s defenders have asserted that those whose insurance is being cancelled can simply enroll in a different plan with the same insurer. What they don’t mention is this “seamless transition” is usually to a more expensive plan. Some estimate Obamacare will increase costs by almost $2,000 per family by 2016 and increase healthcare spending by $625 billion over the next decade. Remember when President Obama claimed his law would “cut the cost of a typical family’s premium by up to $2,500 a year”? Promise broken. “Unfortunately, I fear it will only get worse. Target announced it is ending health insurance for its part-time employees because of Obamacare, joining Trader Joe’s, Home Depot, and other retailers that see the writing on the wall: they can’t afford to offer Obamacare plans to their employees. They’ve done the math, and it would cost less to pay $3000 per employee—the fine for failing to comply with Obamacare’s mandates—than to offer plans under this flawed system. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Americans will lose roughly 2.5 million jobs when the law is fully implemented. Democrats sold Obamacare as an economic booster, not a job killer. Promise broken. “The Administration made a number of promises it could never keep, and now that the facts are coming to light, support for Obamacare has plummeted--today only 35% of Americans support it. “We had a broken healthcare system before Obamacare. Regrettably, it's more damaged now. Obamacare was the wrong path to take, and I continue to support delaying, defunding, reforming, or repealing it, and offering solutions to replace the law with REAL reforms to improve the health system for all Americans. “As the broken promises from the Obama Administration pile up, I will continue working to return healthcare decisions back into the hands of families, patients, and doctors.”
02.05.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation protecting Americans’ access to hunting, fishing and shooting on public lands. H.R. 3590, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act, would ensure that public land managers facilitate access for fishing, sport hunting, and recreational shooting on federal land managed by the BLM and Forest Service. Simpson is a cosponsor of this legislation that passed the House by a vote of 268-154. “This legislation will help ensure Idahoans continue to enjoy access to hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities,” said Simpson. “Hunters and anglers have a long history of enjoying these activities on public lands, and this bill ensures that they continue to have access to traditional recreational activities, even as land management plans change. As a member of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus, I will continue to seek ways to protect and preserve access to recreational hunting and shooting.” H.R. 3590 also allows for firearms to be legally carried on land managed by the Army Corps of Engineers and protects the use of traditional ammunition and fish tackle from needless EPA regulation. H.R. 3590 is supported by the National Rifle Association (NRA) and the National Shooting Sports Foundation (NSSF).
02.05.2014	Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson and Oregon Congressman Kurt Schrader today introduced legislation to make common sense changes to the federal wildfire budget. H.R. 3992, the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, aims to end the destructive cycle of robbing non-fire accounts in order to pay for wildfire suppression when costs exceed an agency’s wildfire budget. In recent years, Congress has budgeted for wildfire suppression by appropriating money according to the average cost for wildfires over the past ten years, known as the “ten-year average.” When costs exceed an agency’s fire budget, that agency is forced to borrow from non-fire accounts to pay for fire suppression. Robbing these accounts means that the Forest Service and other land management agencies have fewer resources available for forest management activities like hazardous fuels reduction that would prevent catastrophic fires. As a result, fires get worse and wildfire suppression costs end up devouring the agency’s budget. As fire seasons have grown longer and more destructive, fire borrowing has become regular practice instead of an extraordinary measure. In eight of the past ten years, the Forest Service has exceeded its wildfire suppression budget. At the same time, the proportion of the agency’s budget devoted to wildland fire management has risen from 13% in the early 1990’s to 41% in 2013. “I have seen firsthand where good forest management practices, like removing hazardous fuels, have made the difference between a manageable fire and total devastation,” said Simpson. “It costs less, both in taxpayer dollars and in lost lives and property, to prevent wildfires before they start than to fight them once they are out of control. Yet the way we currently budget for fire has created a devastating cycle of fire borrowing that is costing taxpayers and destroying our forests.” Simpson continued, “This is why Congressman Schrader and I introduced the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act. This bill treats catastrophic wildfires like similar major natural disasters—such as floods and hurricanes—and ensures that money intended for managing public lands is actually used for that purpose. Changing the way we budget for fire will allow us to continue to fight fires without crippling our ability to prevent future fires from burning out of control.” “The current system is broken and it severely hinders the ability of our land management agencies from being able to provide the resources needed to properly manage our forests,” said Congressman Schrader. “We must break this endless cycle of robbing Peter to pay Paul. By ensuring we have the annual funding that is necessary to properly manage our public lands, we can reduce fuel loads, improve forest health, and save money in the long by preventing the catastrophic fires we see every year. This is good for our forests and good for the taxpayer.” Routine wildland firefighting costs make up about 70% of the total cost of fire suppression. Under the Wildfire Disaster Funding Act, these costs would be funded through the normal budgeting and appropriations process. The true emergency fire events, which represent about 1% of wildland fires but make up 30% of costs, would be treated like similar major natural disasters, such as floods and hurricanes, and funded under disaster programs. H.R. 3992 is companion legislation to S. 1875, legislation authored by Senators Crapo and Wyden in the Senate.
01.29.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of the conference report for H.R. 2642, the Agricultural Act of 2014, known as the Farm Bill. The conference report, which authorizes agriculture programs for five years, passed the House by a vote of 251-166. The Agricultural Act of 2014 significantly reduces and reforms farm policy spending and food stamp expenditures, resulting in $23 billion dollars in taxpayer savings over 10 years. “The impact of the Farm Bill on Idaho’s farming and ranching families cannot be overestimated,” said Simpson. “Farming and ranching are the economic backbone of Idaho and the Farm Bill is critical to keeping that backbone strong. I can’t imagine where we’d be without a Farm Bill or what the failure to pass one would do to our agricultural, economic, and national security.” Simpson said that like any compromise bill, the 2014 Farm Bill isn’t the bill he would have written, but stressed the alternative is far worse for American agriculture and Idaho communities. “Allowing the current Farm Bill to expire and certain agriculture programs, like the dairy program, to revert back to early 20th century laws is simply not a viable option,” said Simpson. “Our ability to maintain a safe and domestic supply of food in the United States is tied directly to the policies put forth in the Farm Bill. People in our nation appreciate the complexities of maintaining a domestic supply of food, and we have to do everything we can to keep our food grown right here in the United States.” Here are a few highlights of the Agricultural Act of 2014: Permanently authorizes vital tools to manage livestock production risk including the Livestock Indemnity Program, the Livestock Forage Disaster Program and Emergency Assistance for Livestock producers Repeals direct payments and strengthens risk management tools Strengthens the crop insurance program Funds specialty crop industry priorities Reauthorizes the U.S. sugar policy at zero cost to the taxpayer Replaces outdated dairy programs with a new, voluntary, margin protection program Makes significant reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) program to address fraud and misuse while maintaining food assistance to families in need while reducing spending on food stamps by $8 billion over 10 years Strengthens and consolidates conservation programs to save $6 billion over the next decade “I am also pleased that the Farm Bill contains significant reforms of the food stamp program and reduces its costs over the next five years,” said Simpson. “The Farm Bill prohibits federal food stamp recruitment programs, closes the “heat-and-eat” loophole, establishes state-based pilot programs with a work requirement, and ensures illegal immigrants and lottery winners are ineligible for food stamps.” The bill also includes a number of provisions regarding management of public lands and natural resources. These include a one-year extension of full mandatory funding for Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), which reimburses counties for the income lost because of the presence of federal land, and language preventing EPA from regulating forest roads under the Clean Water Act. “I am particularly grateful that the Farm Bill includes two provisions I have been seeking for quite some time – extension of PILT payments and limits on the EPA’s regulation of forest roads,” said Simpson. “The Farm Bill provides Congress with additional time to find a permanent funding source for PILT and ensures that the EPA’s regulatory appetite is curbed when it comes to forest roads.”
01.16.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported H.R. 3362, the Exchange Information Disclosure Act, which passed 259-154. The bill requires the administration to submit to Congress weekly reports that detail a variety of Obamacare statistics that are currently not being released to the public. The report would include the number of visits to the healthcare.gov website, the number of individuals who enroll and pay their first premium, and the ages of enrollees. "It is important that policymakers and the American people are given this information,” Said Congressman Simpson. “Since the healthcare.gov rollout the administration has not been very forthcoming, instead only providing snapshots of certain statistics. We need to see the whole picture as this law is rolled out.” The bill would require the administration to provide more details about the information they have revealed to this point. For example, they have announced that more than 250,000 individuals had selected a plan, but did not reveal how many of those are actually enrolling, or how many have actually paid their first month’s premium or enrolled in Medicaid. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration, where unfortunately almost 170 House passed bills are currently being held up by the Democratic majority. A comprehensive list of those bills can be viewed here http://majorityleader.gov/bill-tracker/.
01.15.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today lauded provisions included in the Omnibus Appropriations Act for FY14 that protect Western interests and bring more accountability to federal spending. Simpson, former chair of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, praised provisions included in the bill to provide for wildfire suppression, address public lands issues, and make litigation costs transparent. The bill fully funds wildfire suppression accounts at the 10-year average, providing $3.94 billion for wildfire fighting and prevention programs within the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior. It also fully reimburses agencies for what is known as “fire-borrowing”—when agencies must drain non-suppression accounts to pay for wildfire fighting costs that exceed fire budgets—in 2013. “There is no doubt that providing adequate funding for wildfire suppression must be a top priority, and I’m pleased that this bill provides full funding for these efforts,” said Simpson. “As important, however, is recognizing the impact that wildfire suppression costs have on agencies’ abilities to restore our forests to a healthier state. Fire borrowing robs the agencies of the resources they need for good forest management, creating a cycle of higher costs and unhealthier forests. This bill attempts to stop that cycle by repaying accounts that were drained during last year’s fire season and rejecting significant proposed cuts to this year’s hazardous fuels budget.” The bill includes a number of provisions authored by Simpson that are aimed at preserving responsible access to public land. Among them are provisions to: Extend for two years long-standing authority to allow the BLM to extend expiring grazing permits while they complete the environmental work required for renewals; Make vacant grazing allotments available to grazing permittees adversely impacted by drought or wildfire; Provide for the trailing of livestock across public lands during fiscal years 2014 and 2015; Continue important conservation efforts to prevent the sage-grouse from being listed as an endangered species; Restore $1 million to compensate ranchers for livestock killed by wolves; Prevent agencies from limiting recreational shooting and hunting on federal lands; and Prohibit the Department of Interior from implementing the Wild Lands initiative. Simpson also praised language that directs the Department of Interior, the Forest Service, and the EPA to make public information regarding the cost of work requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and the cost of fees paid by the agencies under the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA). “Frivolous lawsuits are one of the largest unbudgeted costs for land management agencies. They divert funding away from critical priorities, but they are rarely accounted for by those agencies,” said Simpson. “In recent years I’ve worked to bring these issues to light and ensure that Congress is aware of these costs—and in fact that agencies themselves are aware of them. I’m pleased that this bill expands on those efforts to bring costs under control and ensure greater accountability of taxpayer dollars.” Simpson also commented on the fact that the omnibus appropriations bill does not include funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. PILT payments go out to counties with a high percentage of federal land, essentially compensating these counties for the fact that the federal government does not pay property taxes. Since 2008, PILT has been automatically funded as a mandatory program, but this authority expired in October at the end of FY2013. “Ensuring that PILT is adequately funded for 2014 remains one of my top priorities. While I am deeply concerned about the lapse of funding for this program, I have been assured that PILT payments will go out for 2014,” said Simpson. “At the end of the day, I hope that we are able to shift PILT back to mandatory funding, likely as part of the Farm Bill, where it is not subject to the whims of the annual budget process. PILT is essentially the government’s property tax on the federal lands it owns, and it needs to be paid in full and on time. Since PILT moved to mandatory funding in 2008, counties have had certainty that the federal government will meet its obligations to them, and I am hopeful that authorizers will act quickly to make sure that continues.” The Omnibus Appropriations Act is expected to be considered by the House of Representatives later today.
01.15.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the House passage of the fiscal year 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill that will provide funds for the operation of the federal government and prevent a government shutdown. It passed the House by a vote of 359-67 and now moves to the Senate for consideration. “This bill represents an important step toward getting back to regular order in our appropriations process, and it does so in a responsible manner that reduces total discretionary spending for the fourth straight year—something not done since the 1950’s,” Simpson said. “Republicans have fought hard to cut spending since we took over the majority four years ago, and this agreement continues those efforts by establishing a top line below fiscal year 2009 levels. Since the Republicans took over, we have reduced discretionary spending by $165 billion, nearly undoing the record setting increases by Democrats in previous years.” The Omnibus includes all twelve appropriations bills for fiscal year 2014, and provides funding for every aspect of the government—from national security and resources for our troops to support for American farmers and ranchers, biomedical research at the National Institutes of Health, and maintenance of our roads and bridges. It repeals recently enacted cuts to cost of living adjustments (COLAS) for disabled military retirees and survivors, and it provides no new funding for Obamacare, while reducing the Secretary of Health and Human Service’s “slush fund” for Obamacare exchanges by $1 billion. The bill funds a number of vital priorities for Idaho within the lower overall spending levels. These include increased funding for the Idaho National Lab’s nuclear research programs as well as more than $20 million additional funding for the ongoing nuclear cleanup activities in Eastern Idaho. As Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, Congressman Simpson played a lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. Simpson also praised provisions included in the Interior and Environment portion of the bill that will provide for wildfire suppression, address public lands issues, and make litigation costs transparent. “Not only does this bill provide critical funding in a number of areas important for Idaho, but it also gives agencies clear direction on current Congressional priorities, as well as the stability to budget accordingly to fulfill them,” Simpson said. “Funding our government through short term Continuing Resolutions is unsustainable, and, frankly, not a responsible way to govern. Through this agreement, Congress has fulfilled its duty of keeping our government open, and while no one got everything they wanted in the final package, we have paved the way back to regular order in the weeks and months to come.”
01.14.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Fiscal Year 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill reverses substantial cuts to Idaho National Laboratory, the Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy, and cleanup activities in Idaho. Simpson was recently appointed Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and had the lead role in deciding funding for all Department of Energy programs. “The Obama Administration sought to cut funding for Idaho National Laboratory and the Office of Nuclear Energy last year and I am happy to report that this bill reverses those cuts and secures substantial increases in a number of critical areas,” said Simpson. “In fact, I have increased funding for INL’s nuclear research programs, ensured full funding for the Lab’s vital security force, and boosted funding by more than $20 million for the ongoing nuclear cleanup activities in Eastern Idaho. This bill not only stabilizes funding at INL after a couple of years of uncertainty, it sends a strong message that INL’s work as the DOE’s lead nuclear energy laboratory is critical to our nation’s energy security.” The FY2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill sets funding for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy at $889 million, including $94 million for Idaho National Laboratory Safeguards and Security. The $889 million funding level represents an increase of $154 million over the President’s request and $36 million over the FY2013 funding level. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $889 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory; is funded at $196.6 million – a $15 million increase over the President’s request; The Next Generation Nuclear Plant Fuel and Graphite Qualification Program is funded at $33 million, an increase of $17 million above the President’s request; Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $110 million, an increase of $44 million above the President’s request and $40 million above FY2013 funding levels. A portion of the funding is slated for NuScale Power’s Small Modular Reactor which is proposed for construction in Idaho; The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which is managed by INL and promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $30 million, an increase of $8.5 million above the President’s request; Fully funds the Idaho National Laboratory’s Safeguards and Security Program at $94 million. Under sequestration, INL’s Safeguards and Security Program would have been forced to endure devastating cuts impacting operations across the Laboratory; Within the Office of Naval Reactors, the bill includes $66.5 million for the operation of the Advanced Test Reactor, an increase of $2 million above the President’s request; The Advanced Test Reactor’s National Scientific User Facility receives a $5 million increase to equip a new post irradiation laboratory at INL; Split between the Office of Naval Reactors and the Office of Nuclear Energy, the bill contains $37 million for the construction of a Remote Handled Low-Level Waste Disposal Project; Within the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability, the bill includes $5 million for the development of an Electric Grid Test Bed program to enhance existing full-scale electric grid testing capabilities like those at Idaho National Laboratory. The bill also provides $387 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $387 million is an increase of $22 million above the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. The bill continues Nuclear Regulatory Commission funding for a nuclear waste storage facility at Yucca Mountain to maintain its viability for future use and complete the third safety evaluation report as part of the licensing process. Finally, the bill includes funding of $44 million for environmental infrastructure within the Army Corps of Engineers. The Section 595 Rural Idaho program for community water and waste water infrastructure is eligible for funding within this allocation. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $34 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. “While all of this funding is critically important to INL and the advancement of nuclear energy technologies, I cannot stress enough how important it was to reverse the cuts to the guard force,” said Simpson. “Without a fully funded guard force, INL would have been forced to curtail vital operations and layoff additional personnel. I am grateful that this bill rights that wrong.” The bill is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives on Wednesday and in the Senate later this week. The complete Conference Report can be found at: http://rules.house.gov/bill/113/hr-3547-sa
01.08.2014	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today cosponsored legislation to limit the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers from expanding their regulatory authority over state waters. H.R. 3377, the Defense of Environment and Property Act of 2013, would curb the EPA’s efforts to expand its authority under the Clean Water Act by clearly defining “navigable waters.” Simpson chairs the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the Corps of Engineers, and serves on the subcommittee that oversees the EPA budget. “This is an issue that hits at the very core of our way of life in Idaho,” said Simpson. “Water is life, and to let the EPA begin to regulate all waters of the United States would have a devastating impact on rural towns, farmers, and local governments. I’ve been deeply concerned that the EPA has moved so aggressively to claim jurisdiction over state waters, which is why I’ve cosponsored this bill. H.R. 3377 provides common sense and needed clarification on this issue so that farmers and ranchers can move forward without fear of the EPA usurping their water rights.” The term “navigable waters” has long been the term which limits federal intrusion with regards to the Clean Water Act’s authority. However, recent disputes over the definition of “navigable waters” have resulted in efforts by the Obama Administration to amend the current version of the Clean Water Act by replacing the term “navigable waters” with the term “waters of the United States.” Non-navigable waters are currently regulated by the states. Striking this term out of the law would result in a massive expansion of the federal government’s authority by increasing the number of waters subject to federal water quality standards. If all intrastate waters are regulated, the law could be broadly interpreted to include everything within a state, including groundwater. H.R. 3377 would clearly define “navigable waters” as waters that are navigable-in-fact to prevent either the EPA or the Corps of Engineers from impinging on states’ power over land and water use. “If the EPA has its way, the reach of federal jurisdiction would be so broad that it could significantly restrict landowners’ ability to make decisions about their property and a state and local government’s right to plan for its own development,” Simpson said. “Ponds, ditches, and groundwater should not be regulated by the federal government, and I will continue to fight to protect private property and states’ rights in my role on the House Appropriations Committee.” As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Simpson had included language in his FY2014 appropriations bill to prevent the EPA from removing the term “navigable waters” from the definition of waters subject to EPA regulation under the Clean Water Act. Similar language applying to the Corps of Engineers was included in the House Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill.
12.12.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of the budget agreement reached by House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan and his counterpart in the United States Senate. The bill passed the House by a vote of 332-94, with support from 169 Republicans and 163 Democrats. Simpson said the agreement avoids another government shutdown, preserves dozens, perhaps hundreds, of jobs at Idaho National Laboratory, lays the groundwork for extending PILT payments, achieves greater savings for taxpayers than those contained in sequestration, and does all of it without raising taxes. “My Republican colleagues and I have been seeking reforms to sequestration that lessen the pain on the military, allow Congress to budget in a more orderly process, and maintain or enhance the long-term savings achieved by the Budget Control Act. The bill we passed today accomplishes all three of those goals and is a positive step in the right direction,” said Simpson, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water which funds the Idaho National Laboratory. “I am especially relieved that the agreement short circuits some of the devastating sequester-based cuts to Idaho National Laboratory – including cuts to its core nuclear energy research programs, the guard force that secures the facility against terrorism or sabotage, and ongoing cleanup activities that are so important to the protection of the environment and human health. The agreement also provides room in the budget to continue funding for PILT – something that was simply impossible under the clean CR advocated by some who today voted no.” Among its provisions, the agreement would do the following: Reduce the federal deficit by an additional $23 billion without raising taxes (according to CBO) Put us on a path to reduce the deficit by $85 billion over ten years, $78 billion of which is spending cuts (according to CBO) Replace sequestration’s arbitrary, across-the-board cuts with more rational deficit reduction Allow Congress to reclaim its Constitutional role in spending decisions and take spending authority away from the President Stop government checks to ineligible criminals and dead people Stop Medicaid payments that should be covered by dead-beat parents and insurance companies Simpson also expressed dismay with those who are opposing the agreement and are instead seeking the passage of a clean Continuing Resolution. “I find it very telling that the people demanding a clean CR today are the ones who opposed that same clean CR in September and forced a costly government shutdown,” said Simpson. “The clean CR they’re advocating would provide more spending authority to President Obama and result in fewer reforms to the mandatory programs that are driving our deficit. It would continue devastating cuts at INL and leave no room in the budget to continue PILT payments for rural counties. It would result in fewer border control agents, weaker budgets for controlling wildfires, fewer permits for logging and grazing, and a smaller, less capable military.” Despite the passage of this positive agreement, Simpson believes Congress has considerable work ahead of it in further reducing the budget and eliminating the deficit. He remains a strong proponent of a Balanced Budget Amendment and is a leading advocate in Congress for reforming the tax code and entitlement programs to achieve real progress toward smaller, more efficient federal government.
11.25.2013	“Earlier this year, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) released more than 1,236 pages of new regulations governing the growing, harvesting, packing and holding of fresh produce. While it is of utmost importance to preserve the safety of the U.S. food supply, I am concerned about the scientific necessity of this rule and the economic impact that it would have on growers in Idaho. “The proposed rule, Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption, was released by the FDA in January. This rule stems from the FDA Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA), which I opposed, but was signed into law in January 2011. It directed the FDA to further develop mandatory food safety and traceability requirements, which would affect farmers, packers, and processors of both domestically produced and imported products. Specifically, the rule would apply to any produce that could be consumed raw and would affect any agricultural water that could come into contact with that produce. “The FDA estimates that this rule will cost growers between $5,000 to $30,000 per farm a year—or $460 million a year. The FDA’s goal of protecting food safety will be undermined if growers do not have the ability to implement procedures or are forced out of business. “In an effort to prevent devastating new regulations on growers of specialty crops, Representative Greg Walden and I led a July meeting with top officials at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to convey concerns we have heard from Idaho and Oregon onion farmers and fruit growers about the proposed new irrigation water quality rule that could cripple farms across the country. As a result of this meeting, an FDA delegation visited Idaho, Oregon and Washington State in August to hear from growers about their specific concerns with the rule firsthand. “I have not seen sufficient evidence that implementing the proposed rule would provide its intended benefit. For instance, while the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention have linked E. coli cases to leafy greens, like lettuce and spinach, there are no posted cases linked to dry bulb onions, which are grown in Idaho. A recent study by an Oregon State University scientist concluded that there is no risk of E. coli contamination from dry onion bulbs. This illustrates why the rule needs to be commodity-specific and risk-based. I will continue to emphasize that the FDA shouldn’t impose restrictions on agricultural water that are not viable for Idaho farmers. “The farm bill which passed the House of Representatives on July 11, with my support, included an amendment by Representative Benishek (R-MI) requiring a scientific and economic analysis of the FDA's Food Safety and Modernization Act prior to enforcement of final regulations. Earlier this month, I joined six colleagues in a letter to the farm bill conference committee urging the conferees to include language in the final bill that would require new federal rules to be based on the best available science and include a study of possible economic impacts. “With an Administration that issues an abundance of rules and regulations for all industry, it is especially important for the FDA to utilize input from producers and industry experts to achieve effective and sensible crop-specific methods to ensure food safety.”
11.21.2013	Today a bill authored by Congressman Mike Simpson to permit existing water diversions in Idaho wilderness areas was passed by the Senate committee with jurisdiction on the issue. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, of which Senator Jim Risch is a member, passed H.R. 876, the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act, by voice vote. “Predating the existence of the wilderness areas, private land owners had received permits to maintain and repair water diversions that existed on national forest system lands,” said Risch. “Many of the permits have since expired leaving those who own the water diversions without options for maintaining their water systems. This legislation would protect these private property rights and give the Secretary of Agriculture the authority to reissue and issue special use authorizations to the owners of these diversion facilities within the Frank Church and the Selway-Bitteroot Wilderness areas.” There are a number of water diversions in both the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness and the Selway-Bitteroot Wilderness areas that have existed since before the wilderness areas were established. Simpson’s bill would allow the U.S. Forest Service to issue special use permits to owners of water systems, authority that it currently lacks. “These water diversions already existed when the area was designated as wilderness,” said Simpson. “The owners of these facilities already hold a valid water right under Idaho’s law, and they’ve been using the diversion to provide water on their own land since before the wilderness designation. This bill goes back and provides the appropriate authorization that the wilderness acts overlooked, giving private land owners the ability to properly maintain and repair these diversions.” Simpson added, “At some point in the future, all of these 25 existing diversions will need work done to ensure their integrity, and H.R. 876 will allow needed work to begin without delay. I’m pleased that it has moved another step in the legislative process today, and I look forward to it being passed by the Senate and signed into law.” H.R. 876 now awaits consideration on the floor of the U.S. Senate.
11.20.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation to expand onshore domestic energy production by establishing an efficient and responsible process for producing energy on federal lands. H.R. 1965, the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act of 2013, aims to reverse recent declines in domestic oil and natural gas production on federal lands, creating jobs and moving our nation closer to energy independence. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 228-192. “Achieving energy independence must be one of the top priorities for Congress. The issue directly impacts our economy and our national security; it is not in our best interest to depend on other nations for sources of energy,” said Simpson. “Energy production on federal lands—both renewable and conventional—makes up an important part of our domestic energy portfolio. Unfortunately, since President Obama took office in 2009, oil production on federal land has dropped 7.8%, and natural gas production has gone down 21%. Our current policies have us pointed in the wrong direction. Thankfully, H.R. 1965 helps to put us back on course.” H.R. 1965 would: Strengthen domestic energy security by requiring the Secretary of Interior to develop and implement a comprehensive all-of-the-above energy plan; Reform the leasing process for onshore oil and gas projects to encourage timely and responsible permitting of onshore energy projects; Create jobs and expand domestic energy production by encouraging development of the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska; Modernize the bidding process for federal onshore oil and gas leases by allowing the BLM to conduct Internet-based auctions; and Enable Native American tribes to develop energy resources on their own land. H.R. 1965 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
11.19.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has introduced legislation, H.R. 3457, to add a judge to Idaho’s federal court system, which has a ballooning caseload and just two U.S. district judges. Simpson’s legislation directs the appointment of a third district judge in Idaho. “It is far past time for Idaho to get a third district judge and the bill I have introduced will provide the additional judge that our state needs,” said Simpson. “I recently met with Idaho’s federal judges and heard directly from them about the serious impact budget cuts, sequester, and the lack of an additional judge are having on the federal courts in Idaho. While I am fully cognizant of the budget crisis facing our country, I share the judges' concerns about delays in the administration of justice and the impact that has on the Constitutional role of the courts.” As Idaho’s population has grown, so has the number of court cases. Between 2007 and 2013 the District of Idaho has experienced a 26% increase in total filings and pending caseloads have increased 30%. Idaho has a heavier caseload than other rural states that already have three federal district judges (Alaska, Montana, South Dakota and Wyoming). The challenge of an overloaded court is further compounded by the budget shortages, further impacting the court’s ability to function properly and serve Idahoans. “For years I’ve advocated adding a new judge in Idaho because we need it as much as anywhere in the country,” said Simpson. “Idahoans deserve access to an efficient court system, and this bill would do much to ensure their continued access to it.” Simpson and former Idaho Congressman Walt Minnick introduced similar legislation in 2010. It has been 59 years since the number of district judges in Idaho has been increased.
11.14.2013	Today Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined House colleagues in supporting the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act, which would limit unnecessary and frivolous lawsuits in U.S. federal courts. “We need to do better in this country protecting individuals and small businesses who have had been sued unfairly. Often, even if a case is found to be frivolous, victims of baseless lawsuits are forced to pay thousands of dollars and spend significant amounts of time away from their families and their jobs,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, this is frequently the result of overzealous lawyers who have the incentive to sue and collect lucrative attorney’s fees.” H.R. 2655 would ensure penalties for abusers of the law and provide protections for victims of frivolous lawsuits. It imposes mandatory sanctions on lawyers who file baseless suits and ensures the victim is compensated in full, including the attorney’s fees and other costs incurred. It also would get rid of the current “free pass” rule that allows lawyers to file frivolous suits and simply withdraw them after 21 days even after the victims have spent time and money defending themselves. “This bill takes us in the right direction,” added Simpson. “I have long said we need to enact common sense tort reform to reduce both the direct and the indirect costs on the American people associated with junk lawsuits.” The Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act is opposed by the trail lawyer association, but is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, manufacturing organizations, and small businesses who are often victims of frivolous claims. H.R. 2655 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 228-195 and now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
11.13.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has been appointed as Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. The Subcommittee funds all functions of the U.S. Department of Energy, including the Idaho National Laboratory’s research and cleanup operations. “Given the importance of this Subcommittee to Idaho and its daily impact on my constituents, I am honored and pleased to have the opportunity to be its new Chairman,” said Simpson. “The Idaho delegation has a strong history of involvement in federal issues related to energy development and water infrastructure, and in particular nuclear energy. This new assignment gives me the opportunity to expand our involvement in these issues and make sure the concerns of our state and region are heard and addressed.” “There are very few who know more about the nation’s energy and water needs than Mike Simpson. His leadership, experience, drive, and professional focus make him an excellent fit to chair this subcommittee. I know that he is committed to making the most out of every precious taxpayer dollar, to ensuring that our nation continues to strive toward energy independence, and to fostering an environment that allows our businesses to create jobs and grow the economy,” House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers said. “I am looking forward to working with him in his new role.” The Subcommittee’s primary jurisdiction includes the following federal agencies: Department of Energy, including Idaho National Laboratory and Bonneville Power Administration National Nuclear Security Administration U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Bureau of Reclamation Nuclear Regulatory Commission Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board Other areas of jurisdiction include the Central Utah Project, the Appalachian Regional Commission, the Delta Regional Authority, the Denali Commission, the Northern Border Regional Commission, the Southern Crescent Regional Commission, and the Tennessee Valley Authority “Whether it’s the cleanup of sites like INL, the maintenance of our nation’s nuclear weapons, or the many vital water projects across the Western United States, the Energy and Water Subcommittee’s work touches almost every community in Idaho and across the country,” said Simpson. “I have served on the Subcommittee for a number of years and have worked hard to learn about the issues before it and the federal programs under its jurisdiction. I am looking forward to getting to work immediately.” Simpson will remain a member of the Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment as well as the Subcommittee on Health and Human Services, Labor, and Education. “I am pleased to be continuing as a member of the Interior Subcommittee and intent on staying engaged on the issues I have championed as Chairman,” said Simpson. “Addressing hazardous fuels on federal forest and grazing lands, improving the way we fund wildfire fighting, reducing the size and authority of the EPA, protecting state sovereignty over water, and maintaining our trust responsibilities to Native Americans will remain top priorities of mine in the coming weeks, months, and years.”
11.13.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a number of his Western colleagues in supporting the rule recently proposed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to remove the gray wolf from the endangered species list. Simpson authored legislation in 2011 to delist wolves in Idaho, where the population has seen a robust recover since reintroduction in the mid-1990’s. He sent a letter to Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe commending the proposed rule to delist wolves nationwide and urging the Service to act quickly to move forward on it. “The statutory purpose of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) is to recover species to the point where they are no longer considered ‘endangered’ or ‘threatened,’” the letter reads. “The gray wolf is currently found in 46 countries around the world and has been placed in the classification of “least concern” globally for risk of extinction by the International Union for Conservation Nature (IUCN) Species Survival Commission Wolf Specialist Group. This is a clear indication that this species is not endangered or threatened with extinction. “The full delisting of the gray wolf is long overdue. Since wolves were first provided protections under the ESA, uncontrolled and unmanaged growth of wolf populations has resulted in devastating impacts on hunting and ranching and tragic damages to historically strong and healthy herds of moose, elk, big horn sheep and mule deer.” The letter continues, “We believe that state governments are fully qualified to responsibly manage wolf populations and are better able to meet the needs of local communities and wildlife populations. Delisting the gray wolf under ESA would allow state wildlife officials to more effectively manage wolf populations, just as Idaho, Montana, Wyoming, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan have proven is possible.” Simpson serves on the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the Fish and Wildlife Service. He joined 74 other members of the House and Senate in sending the letter to Director Ashe.
11.12.2013	“The cost of healthcare is increasing at a rapid rate. Over ten years, health care spending is predicted to total $5 trillion in this country. To put it in context, total spending government-wide this year is approximately $3.5 trillion, with health costs making up about half of that. Meanwhile, we consistently run up trillion dollar deficits every year—leading to a $17 trillion debt. We have no plan to address it. This is unsustainable. “We need real reform of our healthcare system, and Obamacare doesn’t do it. As Congress continues to look for ways to delay, defund, alter, and repeal provisions of this misguided law, we must not stop exploring ways to improve both the quality and cost-effectiveness of our health care system. “Medical malpractice (tort) reform is an idea that most Americans support that would bring down health care costs for taxpayers and improve access to care. Our current system increases costs both directly, in the form of higher malpractice insurance premiums, and indirectly, in the form of defensive medicine—when medical services are prescribed primarily to avoid liability rather than for the benefit of the patient. Placing reasonable limits on health care litigation would help reign in these costs without sacrificing quality of care. “The connection between litigation and costs passed on to patients is undeniable. One state survey revealed that 83% of participating doctors admitted to practicing defensive medicine. Significant numbers of tests, procedures, and hospital admissions were being performed just to avoid lawsuits. “Other reports show a growing number of physicians are spending larger amounts of their career in court than ever. Nearly 61% of physicians age 55 and over have been sued; depending on the area of practice, some are even higher. For example, more than 50% of ob-gyns have already been sued before they reach the age of 40, with that number rising to 90% of general surgeons age 55 and over. “These are significant statistics, but the problem becomes even more unmistakable when you consider that a majority of these lawsuits are frivolous. In 2009, 64% of claims were dropped or dismissed, but the cost of defending those suits still averaged $26,000 per claim. For those that went to trial, defense costs averaged over $140,000 per claim for defendant victories, and over $170,000 for plaintiff victories. “Republicans did attempt to include tort reform in Obamacare. The Congressional Budget Office then estimated that implementing tort reform would reduce total health care spending by about $11 billion and would reduce federal budget deficits by as much as $54 billion. However, the trial lawyers fought vigorously and spent millions of dollars advertizing and lobbying against any attempt to restrict the lucrative attorney contingency fees that their members have enjoyed as a result of current policies. “Many states, including Idaho, have wisely taken the lead on this issue and enacted tort reforms of their own. Governor Dirk Kempthorne signed H.B. 92 into law on March 26, 2003, which included a $250,000 cap on non-economic damages. Importantly, this cap does not apply to claims arising out of willful or reckless misconduct or felonious actions. “The federal government should follow Idaho’s lead and enact common sense tort reform that protects patients with legitimate claims, but limits those who pursue junk lawsuits which drive up costs. I have long supported legislation that would place caps on non-economic damages and limit attorney fees. The fight for true health care reform is far from over, and I will continue to advocate for policies that increase the quality and cost-effectiveness of health care and keep our economy on a sustainable, healthy path for the future.”
10.31.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson recently joined 180 Members of Congress by sending a letter to President Obama opposing the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty (ATT). The Obama administration recently signed the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) concerning the trade of conventional weapons. While the treaty is intended to rein in unregulated weapons around the world, Simpson is concerned that such a treaty may put Second Amendment rights at risk. “I oppose any effort by the administration to implement or enforce this treaty though executive action. For this reason, I joined my colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama opposing the treaty and declaring that I will not support any implementing legislation or funding for this treaty,” said Simpson. Simpson previously signed a similar letter to President Obama and Secretary Kerry on May 30, 2013, urging them to reject the treaty. He is also a cosponsor of H. Con. Res. 23, a bipartisan concurrent resolution expressing opposition to the treaty. “The Second Amendment should not be compromised or threatened by any international treaty and I will strongly oppose any treaty that would impact civilian ownership of firearms, expose the records of America’s gun owners to foreign governments, challenge the authority of Congress to regulate firearms within the United States, or call for an international gun registry,” said Simpson. Any international treaty requires a two-thirds approval in the Senate before it is considered in effect in the United States.
10.30.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3359, known as the “Delay Until Fully Functional Act,” offered by Rep. Trey Radel in the House and Sen. Marco Rubio in the Senate. The bill would delay the individual health insurance mandate in Obamacare until six months after the Government Accountability Office confirms that the exchange website is functioning properly. “We all know that the healthcare.gov rollout has been an abject failure, and with little information coming out of the administration, it appears the website may be inoperable for some time,” said Simpson. “That being said, let’s not focus on celebrating its failure. Instead, let’s work to ensure that as few Americans are impacted by this debacle as possible.” Despite having three years and hundreds of millions of dollars to build the site, it still is not working a month after it was supposed to come online. This comes on top of recent confirmation that millions of Americans are being booted off their health insurance plans despite repeated statements from the White House that this would not happen. “The Obamacare website’s flaws illustrate the inherent problems with government run healthcare,” said Simpson. “Obviously, Americans should not be forced to sign up for a program that is simply not ready. This bill guarantees all Americans will have enough time to find out what their new options and costs are before they have to make a decision about their insurance. I believe the entire law should be repealed, but until that time comes, I will look for ways to fix its biggest problems and protect as many Americans as possible.”
10.24.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted last night for H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2013. H.R. 3080 authorizes the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to carry out its mission to develop, maintain, and support the Nation’s vital port and waterways infrastructure needs, and support effective and targeted flood protection and environmental restoration needs. “Navigation improvement is particularly important in Idaho, where the Snake River feeds the lower Columbia River international gateway and annually moves about six million tons of grain, paper products, petroleum products, and general container cargo produced by Idahoans,” Simpson said. Historically, Congress has passed legislation every two years to provide clear direction on such projects to the Administration and the Corps, but no bill has been signed into law since 2007. Highlights of H.R. 3080 include requirements to streamline environmental reviews to accelerate project delivery, deauthorization of $12 billion of old, inactive projects to pay for new activities, and the establishment of a new, transparent process for the submission of future projects for review that will prioritize water resources development activities with strong Congressional oversight. Congressman Simpson also cosponsored an amendment that would require the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to conduct an assessment on the impacts of aquatic invasive species on federal assets and current federal spending on aquatic invasive species prevention. The amendment was included in the bill. “Aquatic invasive species, like the quagga mussel, can have devastating effects on our water infrastructure, and both prevention and mitigation of that damage is very costly,” Simpson said. “When we respond to this damage, we must make sure we are being as effective as we can be with taxpayer dollars. This report will identify where our current resources are dedicated so that agencies can coordinate more efficiently with each other and the States to ensure there is no duplication of activities.” H.R. 3080 passed by a vote of 417-3, and will now move to the Senate for further review and action. ###
10.23.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored legislation to ensure that the federal government can’t hold private water rights hostage as a condition for a land use permit. H.R. 3189, the Water Rights Protection Act, prohibits agencies from requiring the transfer of privately held water rights to the federal government in order to obtain a permit to use federal land. Simpson, who oversees the budget of the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service as chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, included a similar provision in the House Interior Appropriations bill for FY14. “In the West, we know water is the key to our economy, and threatening water rights is tantamount to an attack on our way of life,” said Simpson. “It is ridiculous that the Forest Service, or any other agency, would try and force someone to hand over privately held water rights—which are regulated by the state and not the federal government—in order to obtain a land use permit.” States have jurisdiction over water rights. Unfortunately, in a number of cases, the U.S. Forest Service has attempted to circumvent state water law by requiring those applying for a Forest Service permit to turn over privately held water rights to the federal government. H.R. 3189 would prohibit federal water takings and protect both privately held water rights and state water laws. “If there was ever an argument for the supremacy of state water law, this is it,” said Simpson. “When we’re dealing with an issue that is so central to our economy and way of life, it is crucial that state and local officials—those who are familiar with the people and local issues—are the ones to make decisions about how water is used. No federal agency should be able to hijack water rights as a condition for issuing a permit. This legislation makes it clear that the government cannot conduct business in this manner.” H.R. 3189 is currently under consideration by the House Agriculture Committee.
10.21.2013	“You may be hearing more and more from people in Idaho and some in Washington D.C. who would like you to believe that I support Obamacare. They are attempting to reinvent my longstanding position opposed to the law, and are painting my vote to end the government shutdown as implicit support for a law I have consistently opposed. They should be held accountable for those comments. “This is a sad distraction. You deserve honesty from your elected officials. “The simple fact is the only disagreement between Republicans over the last few weeks has been over strategy, not policy. Every Republican is united in opposition to government run health care. I ultimately opposed the strategy of shutting down the government and threatening the U.S. credit to continue a fight without a possible resolution. “For these people now labeling me inconsistent, it wasn’t about winning, it was about the fight. “It isn’t about putting up a fight, because in the end we lost this fight. It is about winning. I want to win. I want Obamacare repealed, forever. The truth is the only way to get rid of Obamacare is to win elections. And shutting down the government and alienating voters will not help repeal Obamacare. Not surprisingly, Republican support in almost every national poll has shown a significant decline in recent weeks. “Idahoans expect their elected officials to do more than throw political bombs and tear down their opponents. They want to hear realistic solutions to the problems facing the country. The health care crisis is real, and more than that, health care is not just an economic issue, it is a personal issue. It impacts all of our lives. Unfortunately, we have seen a shift in this country away from patient centered care, toward government controlled care that limits our options. “I’ve laid out my vision for a health care system many times. It starts with full repeal of Obamacare. Idahoans won’t be fooled by attempts to paint me as supportive of something I have voted to repeal or reform 42 times. Once Obamacare is gone we will spur competition by allowing the purchase of insurance across state lines and pooling of plans by small businesses, reform medical malpractice laws – also known as tort reform, protect those with pre-existing conditions, and expand Health Savings Accounts. “The simple fact is Obamacare will remain as long as President Obama is in office or Harry Reid holds the Senate. Now is not the time to play politics with health care. Now is not the time to eat our own, now is the time to come together to lay out a vision for more accessible, affordable, and personalized health care. Let’s get to work.”
10.17.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson ensured that critical wildfire suppression funding was included in must-pass legislation to avert a potential debt default and end the federal government shutdown. H.R. 2775 included vital funding—$600 million for the Forest Service and $36 million for the Department of the Interior—to restore wildfire suppression accounts that were emptied during the devastating 2013 fire season. Simpson oversees the budget for these agencies in his role as Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. The funding in H.R. 2775 helps to address what is referred to as “fire borrowing.” When budgeted fire suppression funding is depleted, agencies are forced to take money from other non-fire accounts in order to continue fighting fires. “Funding to restore budgets that have been drained through fire borrowing is a critical piece of this legislation,” said Simpson. “Not only does this bill reopen all operations at the National Interagency Fire Center in Boise and ensure that land managers can contain catastrophic fires that would otherwise put lives and property in peril, but it means that they can do the restoration work and hazardous fuels removal needed to reduce the risk of catastrophic fires next year.” Simpson has been working to get this critical funding on the ground for months; his Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY14, which was stalled in committee this summer, included a similar provision. H.R. 2775 was passed by both Houses of Congress yesterday and signed into law.
10.16.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted to re-open the federal government, avoid default on our nation’s debt, and preserve the historic spending cuts Republicans have won in Congress over the last three years. While acknowledging his vote in favor of the bill might be unpopular with some of his constituents, Simpson said the potential economic consequences of continued stalemate outweighed any political consideration. “The easiest, most politically expedient thing for me to do would have been to vote NO and protect my political right flank,” said Simpson. “Doing so, however, would have been the wrong thing to do for my constituents and our economy. My vote today was about the thousands of people facing layoffs at INL, the multitude of businesses across Idaho that have told me their livelihoods are at stake, and the millions of folks across the country who can’t afford the devastating impacts of default on their investments and retirements. There has to be a way to address our nation’s fiscal problems without making them worse in the process. That is the result I will continue working toward during the time we’ve afforded ourselves with today’s agreement.” Simpson also suggested that he doesn’t expect the ongoing controversy over the implementation of Obamacare to subside with this agreement. “The fight over Obamacare may now move to another venue, but the fight is far from over,” said Simpson. “While I strongly believe we should continue working to delay the entire law for one year, I also tend to believe that Obamacare may collapse of its own weight. I don’t think it will work. I don’t believe it will contain costs. I don’t believe it will improve access. And I certainly don’t believe that it can survive the scrutiny it is sure to receive once it is fully implemented and its impacts are fully realized. At that point, Republicans may have a much stronger hand.” Simpson made clear in his reaction to the vote that while the compromise bill was far from ideal, the consequences of a continued stalemate were costing Idahoans their jobs and putting an unnecessary strain on our economy. He also stressed that Congress must now turn its focus to a more long-term solution to our nation’s budget crisis. “This bill, while far from perfect, preserves the progress Republicans have made in reducing spending and moving toward a balanced budget. This bill, while far from perfect, ensures thousands of people in eastern Idaho won’t lose their jobs at INL. This bill, while far from perfect, ends the uncertainty for Idaho businesses that have been impacted by the shutdown and are terrified of default. This bill, while far from perfect, gives Congress the time to approach our budget challenges in an honest, collaborative, comprehensive, and enduring way over the next few months. I am deeply hopeful that we will now look toward a grand bargain, or ‘big’ solution that includes spending cuts, tax reform, and entitlement reform. The American people understand that doing so will require tough decisions, difficult sacrifices, and political courage. I am ready to face those tough decisions and I hope a majority of my colleagues in the House and Senate are ready to do so as well,” said Simpson.
10.04.2013	In a letter sent this week, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson asked the Environmental Protection Agency to withdraw its proposed actions on regional haze and instead work with the State of Wyoming and other stakeholders on a path forward. Simpson, who chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee with jurisdiction over EPA's budget, is concerned with the economic impact on Southeastern Idaho of an overly aggressive federal plan to address regional haze. “I am writing to express my strong concerns with the impact the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Wyoming regional haze goals could have on Western states such as Idaho,” wrote Simpson in his letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy. “It appears to me that your agency has adopted as set of goals and timelines that far exceed what was intended by Congress or is necessary to address concerns related to visibility in wilderness areas and national parks.” The Regional Haze Program was developed as part of the Clean Air Act to improve visibility in areas such as national parks by 2064. The long timeframe for addressing regional haze was meant to accommodate state-based actions and avoid the economic impacts of an accelerated implementation. Regional haze rules are not a health-based standard. Instead, they are designed to improve visibility. Simpson stressed the negative economic impact new regional haze rules could have on the regional economy. “Unfortunately, the combination of an extremely compressed regulatory timeframe and a more aggressive federal implementation plan will lead to significant price increases for electricity customers and an unacceptable impact on the regional economy – with little to no visibility improvements in an area of the nation that already is among the best in visibility,” wrote Simpson. “I am writing to request that you withdraw EPA’s overly aggressive approach to regional haze and instead work with the State of Wyoming and others to utilize the Wyoming Regional Haze Implementation Plan as the appropriate path forward,” concluded Simpson. Simpson also included language in his House Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for FY14 that directs EPA to review and take public comments on the air quality model that it relies on for regional haze decisions. EPA is using an air quality model from 2007 despite the availability of newer updates to that model and alternative models that States rely on to develop their regional haze plans. Simpson believes the public comments could demonstrate to EPA that they need to use a different version. As States and EPA continue to use different versions, they will continue to reach different conclusions about how best to meet regional haze goals. That bill is currently under committee consideration. Idaho Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter wrote to the EPA last month with similar concerns.
10.04.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today signed a letter to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel asking that he use his authority to designate National Guard employees exempt status during the government shutdown to ensure they are paid. Congress recently passed H.R. 3210, which ensured that members of the armed forces continue to receive their paychecks. National Guard troops have not been included as exempt employees, but could be designated as so under the authority of H.R. 3210. The letter states in part, “Our National Guard is a critical component of ensuring that our Nation stands prepared to rapidly confront disaster at home and abroad. That is why we ask that you deem those activated under Title 32 – Active Guard & Reserve, dual status military technicians, and Active Duty Operational Support – as excepted employees.“ The House of Representatives yesterday passed H.R. 3230, the Pay Our Guard and Reserve Act which made appropriations in effect for the pay and allowance of members of reserve components of the Armed Forces. This bill passed 265-160 with Congressman Simpson’s support. It now moves to the Senate for consideration.
10.02.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson authored language passed by the House of Representatives today to keep the National Parks opened while Congress works to pass an overall budget. The measure, which failed under a required two-thirds vote last night after Democrats opposed it, would provide immediate funding at current sequestered levels for National Park Service operations and for the Smithsonian, the National Gallery of Art, and the U.S. Holocaust Museum. Today the House passed H.J.Res. 70, the Open Our Nation’s Parks and Museums Act, by a vote of 252-173. To watch Congressman Simpson's floor speech visit his YouTube page. “With each passing day, we hear of more and more impacts resulting from Congress’s inability to pass a budget,” said Simpson. “While we work to break through this budget impasse, let’s at least take steps to reduce the impact on those who have planned to visit our national parks and museums. This is a common sense measure that should receive bipartisan support, and I’m disappointed that my Democratic colleagues have chosen instead to keep these national treasures closed to the public.” Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, oversees the budget for the National Park Service, the Smithsonian, national museums and the U.S. Holocaust Museum. Simpson reiterated the need to find an overall solution to the current budget stalemate. “Failing to fund day-to-day government operations is an abdication of Congress’s constitutional responsibility, and I urge the Senate to begin negotiating with the House to get our government back up and running.” H.J.Res. 70 now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
10.01.2013	As of October 1st the Federal Government is shut down until a continuing resolution or other funding bill can be approved by both the U.S. House and U.S. Senate and then signed by President Obama. While these negotiations continue, Congressman Simpson provided the following information about how personal offices will be staffed and answers to Frequently Asked Questions about how the shutdown impacts the lives of Americans. Congressman Simpson has deemed three staff essential in Idaho and three in Washington DC. Constituents are encouraged to contact him through his official website. Simpson is maintaining limited services in his Washington, DC, and Boise offices and has closed his offices in Twin Falls, Pocatello, and Idaho Falls. Frequently Asked Questions about the Government Shutdown: During a federal government shutdown, it is up to the executive branch to determine which essential activities will continue, therefore the information below should be considered as guidance but may be subject to change. Many departments and agencies have provided guidance on operations during a shut down on their websites, if you have additional questions, visit those sites. Q – Will I continue to receive my mail? A – Yes. The U.S. Postal service functions as an independent organization. Q – Will I continue to get my Social Security benefits? A – Yes. Social Security is considered a “mandatory” program and is not dependent on appropriations to continue dispensing benefits. However, the Social Security Administration is impacted, but it is believed they would be sufficiently staffed to ensure payments are continued to be made. Q – Will the IRS continue to collect taxes? A – Yes. All payments can still be processed. However, it is possible that refunds could be delayed and all audit activities by the IRS will be suspended. Q – Can I go to a national park? A – No. The National Park Service has closed entrances and told all visitors to leave. Anyone already in the parks will have to leave within two days. Q – Will museums in Washington, D.C. be closed? A – Yes. The Smithsonian, Archives, National Zoo, Holocaust Museum and monuments are closed to the public. Q – Will food safety inspections occur? A – Safety related inspections will continue, but some investigations into violations could be impacted. Q – Will a shutdown stop the implementation of Obamacare? A – No. The state-run exchanges will open as scheduled. Similar to Social Security and Medicare, most of the funding for the exchanges is mandatory funding not impacted by appropriations. Q – Will I still receive unemployment benefits or food stamps? A – Yes. The Employment and Training Administration has said it will provide essential functions, including dispensing unemployment benefits. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has said SNAP (food stamps) is funded for another year. Q – Can I receive WIC benefits? A – No money is available to pay for the administrative costs of WIC at the U.S. Department of Agriculture. However, states do administer the program, so funding may be available. Q – Will the federal school lunch program stay in effect? A – The U.S. Department of Agriculture has said that most schools will be able to provide meals through October. Q – Will airports stay open? A – The Transportation Security Administration has said passengers should see little change at security. There are furloughs at TSA but essential employees will continue to work. Q – Will federal prisons, border patrol, emergency medical facilities, law enforcement and disaster response continue functioning? A – Yes. Any employee who is considered to be essential to protecting life and property will remain in place. Q – Will troops be paid? A – Yes. Congress passed legislation Monday to ensure members of the armed forces get paid on time as normal. Furloughed civilian workers won’t be paid unless Congress passes legislation restoring lost income when the shutdown ends. Q – Will veterans continue receiving compensation for service related wounds or injuries? A – Yes, but the VA has said it only has enough money to compensate veterans for the rest of October. The VA has also said burial benefits, headstones and death notices will remain available.
10.01.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson authored legislation taken up by the House of Representatives this evening to immediately reopen our National Parks and museums in Washington, DC. Unfortunately, House Democrats opposed the bill and it failed under suspension of the rules. National Park Service operations were suspended today because of the government shutdown, and the Smithsonian Institute museums, the National Gallery of Art, and the United States Holocaust Museum have been closed. H.J.Res 70, the Open Our Nation’s Parks and Museums Act, would have provided immediate funding at current sequestered levels to ensure that Americans can still visit these important sites. “One of the first things we heard when the government shut down was the gates to our nation’s crown jewels, our national parks, slamming shut. The American people should still have access to their parks even if Congress is struggling to find a long-term solution for our budgetary woes," said Simpson. "In addition, I’ve heard from a number of Idahoans who have planned for months to travel to our nation’s capital this week, only to find that many of the things they came to see—including the Smithsonian, the Holocaust Museum, and many historical sites in the region—are closed. The Open Our Nation’s Parks and Museums Act would have made sure that they didn’t spend all that money coming across the country to Washington, DC, only to sit in a hotel room because nothing is open.” “This was a stopgap measure, not a long-term solution,” Simpson added. “Congress has a constitutional responsibility to keep the government functioning and pass a budget as quickly as possible. I am disappointed the Democrats rejected this common sense measure, and even more disappointed that the Senate continues to refuse to negotiate with the House on ending the shutdown.” Simpson’s resolution failed by a vote of 252-176, not having received the necessary two-thirds votes for passage under the rules. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the National Park Service, the Smithsonian, and related agencies. Simpson’s floor speech can be viewed here.
09.30.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson this evening voted in favor of legislation that would extend government funding at post-sequestration levels through December 15th, delay the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate for one-year, and require Members of Congress, congressional staff, and political appointees (including White House staff) to enroll in the Obamacare exchanges without an employer subsidy for coverage. Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of two bills that eliminate the employer subsidy for Members of Congress and their staff and has long opposed exempting Congress from the Affordable Care Act’s provisions. “While Congress works to avoid a government shutdown and protect vital services for the American people, it must also work to ensure those of us living inside the beltway aren’t exempted from the onerous impacts of Obamacare,” said Simpson. “This bill keeps the government funded through December 15th and ensures Members of Congress, their staff, and political appointees aren’t exempted from Obamacare or provided subsidies unavailable to their constituents. That is the right thing to do and with healthcare exchanges opening tomorrow, this is the right time to do it.” The House approved several revisions to the Senate’s continuing resolution this evening. They include the one-year delay in the individual mandate, the provision ensuring Congress and the White House do not receive an employer subsidy, the extension of the CR expiration date to December 15, a technical change to the Eisenhower Memorial Commission, and a provision related to the issuance of Special Immigrant Visas. “The American people rightly desire a delay in Obamacare, but they are demanding a repeal of President Obama’s special rules that protect taxpayer subsidies for elected officials,” said Simpson. “This bill responds to the demands of the American people, funds the government for the next 75 days, and gives Congress time to finish its important work on the annual funding bills.” Simpson is also a cosponsor of two pieces of legislation blocking subsidies for federal officials. H.R. 3076, the James Madison Congressional Accountability Act, would block a taxpayer subsidy for the President, Vice-President, executive branch, and Congress in purchasing health plans. H.R. 3067, the NO Obamacare Subsidies for Members of Congress Act, would prohibit a taxpayer subsidy for the purchase of health plans by Members of Congress.
09.28.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of legislation that would extend government funding at post-sequestration levels through December 15th and delay the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare, for one year. “Congress must do everything we can to avoid a government shutdown,” Simpson said. “This bill meets our obligation to keep the government functioning, and to be responsive to our constituents, who have made it very clear that they do not want to see Obamacare go into effect on October 1st. I hope the Senate acts quickly—as the House has done—in order to meet those obligations as well.” The House approved two amendments to the CR that it received from the Senate today. The first adds a permanent repeal of the onerous 2.3% excise tax on medical devices like pacemakers, CT scan machines, and defibrillators and passed the House by a vote of 248-174. The second amendment adds a one-year delay of Obamacare, this passed the House by a vote of 231-192. “The one year delay in Obamacare just makes sense,” said Simpson. “President Obama’s own administration has recommended delaying large portions of it already; acknowledging that full implementation now will be damaging to our economy.” The House also passed, and Congressman Simpson supported, H.R. 3210, the Pay Our Military Act, which will ensure that members of the Armed Forces continue to receive their pay until enactment of a Continuing Resolution or regular appropriations bill providing for such payments is passed.
09.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has signed a letter to the Secretary and Chief of Staff of the Air Force expressing concern about recent reports that the Air Force is considering divesting itself of the A-10 Thunderbolt II. The A-10 is currently operated at Gowen Field. The letter states, in part: The A-10 has provided the Air Force with decades of exemplary service with a new retrofit of the aiframe’s wing and electronics package, the A-10 can continue its close air support mission for decades to come. National security and the protection of our service members in combat areas must be paramount as we consider the needs of the Department of Defense. To deprive itself of such a combat-proven workhorse such as the A-10 would be a mistake and adversely impact the ability of the Air Force to support the warfighter on the ground. Congressman Simpson added, “We all understand that forces are being drawn down in Afghanistan, and I applaud attempts to find efficiencies within the force structure, but it is important to remain fully capable, including maintaining the ability to provide close-air combat support for troops on the ground.” The letter also requested that the Air Force provide the proposed funding decisions for the A-10 and its proposed future guidance.
09.25.2013	“Shortly before Congress adjourned for the August District Work Period, the House Appropriations Committee began consideration of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2014. As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I worked to ensure that western interests were protected in this bill, and I was disappointed that it was pulled from consideration before it could be passed out of Committee. “During my time in Congress, I have consistently worked to preserve responsible access to and use of public land. This is why I included language in the Interior Appropriations bill to delay the decision on whether to list the sage-grouse as an endangered species for a year. “The Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) must determine whether to list the sage-grouse by the end of FY2015, a deadline included in two large court settlements that dealt with 251 species and more than a dozen lawsuits. In advance of this decision, the BLM is currently under a court-imposed deadline to amend 68 resource management plans across the West to ensure that sage-grouse is protected under them. This decision is of paramount importance to Idaho, so agencies need adequate time to complete this work. “It’s important to note that this listing deadline was imposed by a judge, not based on science. Unfortunately, since the court set this arbitrary deadline, agency budgets have continued to decline, and BLM is stretched thin in its efforts to amend these plans. I continue to hear from many of the stakeholders involved who are concerned that the listing deadline has resulted in less collaboration and less effective conservation strategies. By delaying the listing decision for one year, we can provide the BLM and state land managers with the time they need to do the job right. “My bill includes these additional provisions regarding sage-grouse conservation efforts: Requested funding to the BLM for sage-grouse conservation and related resource management amendments; Directing the BLM to provide assistance to states for the implementation of state sage-grouse conservation plans and recognizing that states play a critical role in the success of this effort; and Directing the FWS and the USGS to make public data used in the listing decision, information which has not been made available. “The bill contains a number of other provisions important to the West, including: Full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program (PILT), which reimburses local and state governments for the lack of tax base due to the presence of federal lands; Language making permanent a long-standing provision to allow the BLM to extend expiring grazing permits while they complete the environmental work required for renewals; Language extending the length of grazing permits from the current 10 years to 20 years, allowing agencies to focus on areas that are the most environmentally sensitive; A provision making vacant grazing allotments available to grazing permittees adversely impacted by drought or wildfire; Language preventing the Forest Service from implementing new wilderness directives that would greatly expand the areas to be considered for wilderness; and, Language prohibiting the Forest Service and BLM from requesting or requiring that water rights be relinquished as a condition for initiating or renewing a permit. “In Idaho, our way of life has long depended on access to public lands, whether for recreation, agriculture, or the responsible use of natural resources. These provisions are important to our state’s culture and economy, and I hope that the House will act on this bill soon.”
09.20.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of legislation that would extend government funding at post-sequestration levels through December 15th and defund the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, otherwise known as Obamacare. The legislation, known commonly as a Continuing Resolution (CR), passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 230-189 and will be sent to the Senate for consideration. “This short-term continuing resolution allows the government to stay open and critical services to remain available to the American people while Congress works on a more balanced and permanent plan for ongoing funding,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “Importantly, this CR holds funding to post-sequestration levels and blocks the implementation of Obamacare and its devastating impacts on our economy. I remain as hopeful as ever that Congress will use the time this CR provides to take on the difficult tasks of reducing spending, simplifying our tax code and reforming our entitlement programs so we can make real progress toward a balanced federal budget.” Simpson also praised the CR’s inclusion of funding he sought to provide $600 million to the Forest Service and $36 million to the Department of the Interior to restore wildfire suppression accounts that have been depleted during the devastating 2013 fire season. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for public lands agencies like the Forest Service and the BLM. The funding in the CR helps to address what is referred to as “fire borrowing.” When budgeted fire suppression funding is depleted, agencies are forced to take money from other non-fire accounts in order to continue fighting fires. “One of the biggest problems with fire borrowing is that it perpetuates the cycle of catastrophic wildfires in forests that are not being adequately managed,” said Simpson. “Siphoning money away from resource management accounts during a bad fire year means that those forests will be more susceptible to devastating fires in the future—and when almost every year is a bad fire year, land managers’ hands are tied. Restoring this funding will help ensure that fire fighters can continue to put out fires without jeopardizing the important work of hazardous fuels removal, resource restoration, and timber harvests that we need to do in order to return our forests to health.” The CR, H.J. Res. 59, also includes the text of H.R. 2682, the Defund Obamacare Act of 2013, and H.R. 807, the Full Faith and Credit Act. To view the text of the bill, please visit: http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS-113hres352rh/pdf/BILLS-113hres352rh.pdf
09.19.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has included critical wildfire suppression funding for the Forest Service and Department of Interior in the short-term continuing resolution. The CR, which would extend government funding at sequestration levels through mid-December, provides $600 million to the Forest Service and $36 million to the Department of the Interior to restore wildfire suppression accounts that have been depleted during the devastating 2013 fire season. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for public lands agencies like the Forest Service and the BLM. The funding in the CR helps to address what is referred to as “fire borrowing.” When budgeted fire suppression funding is depleted, agencies are forced to take money from other non-fire accounts in order to continue fighting fires. “One of the biggest problems with fire borrowing is that it perpetuates the cycle of catastrophic wildfires in forests that are not being adequately managed,” said Simpson. “Siphoning money away from resource management accounts during a bad fire year means that those forests will be more susceptible to devastating fires in the future—and when almost every year is a bad fire year, land managers’ hands are tied. Restoring this funding will help ensure that fire fighters can continue to put out fires without jeopardizing the important work of hazardous fuels removal, resource restoration, and timber harvests that we need to do in order to return our forests to health.” Simpson added, “I cannot say enough good things about the men and women who have been on the front lines of these fires. They managed to save homes during the Beaver Creek fire that I would have thought couldn’t be saved. All summer they have worked tirelessly to save Idaho lands and communities, and I’m pleased that Congress recognized this by including the resources to manage and put out fires in the CR.”
09.19.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of legislation to prevent Members of Congress from receiving special treatment under Obamacare by receiving a subsidy for their health insurance plan. Congress is required to be moved to the health insurance exchange once the law comes into effect, and recently the Obama Administration ruled that Members of Congress and staff would receive a federal subsidy for their insurance. “This is about ensuring Congress does not get any special treatment,” Congressman Simpson said. “Obamacare is seriously flawed and needs full repeal, but it is unfair for the administration to now pick and choose who must pay the full costs under the law and who gets a break.” Congressman Simpson has signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 3076, the James Madison Congressional Accountability Act, which blocks a subsidy for the President, Vice President, executive branch, and all of Congress and staff in purchasing health plans. He also supports H.R. 3071, the No Special Treatment for Congress Act, that would ensure no funds are used to implement the President’s ruling and H.R. 3067, the No Obamacare Subsidies for Members of Congress Act, would prohibit a government subsidy for the purchase of health plans by Members of Congress only. “As I have always said, I will strongly oppose any effort to give special treatment to Members of Congress unless every American is exempt from the law through full repeal,” Simpson added. “The American people are strongly opposed to Obamacare, but if they must live under the law, so must Members of Congress.”
09.18.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted for legislation to streamline domestic mineral exploration and production, ensuring the availability of domestic minerals and mineral materials that are essential for national security, technological innovation, and economic growth. H.R. 761, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act, would streamline the permitting process for mineral exploration and development project. “Permitting delays are a huge problem in this country. It takes longer to permit a hard rock mine on federal land here than in any of the other 25 mineral producing countries, and we are increasingly dependent on other countries to produce minerals that we need for national security and other critical purposes,” said Simpson. “H.R. 761 takes a number of steps to eliminate unnecessary and duplicative steps in the permitting process so that we are no longer subject to the legal and political whims of other nations for strategic minerals. I’m pleased the House has taken up this important legislation.” Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, is a cosponsor of H.R. 761, which passed the House today by a vote of 246-178.
09.17.2013	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl Labrador have invited the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, General Mark A. Welsh, III, to visit Idaho to experience the dedication of local service members and Idaho’s world-class facilities by visiting the state’s military installations at Gowen Field and Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB). In the letter, Crapo, Risch, Simpson and Labrador write, “for almost 66 years, Air Force excellence has been possible because of those who have dedicated their lives to the success of U.S. air power and supremacy. Air Force men and women and their families serve our nation with distinction, integrity and patriotism. The service of our Airmen is supported and enhanced by the capabilities of the installations at which they serve. Idaho’s military installations are a valued resource for the state and our nation.” The delegation expressed that in this time of budget cuts the installations in Idaho are uniquely capable of meeting the needs of the Air Force in a cost-effective manner. The letter invites General Welsh to visit Gowen Field and MHAFB later this fall. Crapo, Risch, Simpson and Labrador noted that it has been more than 30 years since an active Chief of Staff of the Air Force visited MHAFB or Gowen Field.
09.12.2013	Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in support of H.R. 2775, the No Subsidies Without Verification Act. This bill would stop Obamacare subsidies from being awarded until a workable verification system is in operation. “Idahoans know that Obamacare is the wrong direction for our health care system, and even President Obama has been forced to admit the law is unworkable as he continues to delay or waive major provisions,” Simpson said. “Half of its deadlines have been missed so far.” H.R. 2775 would hold the government accountable to taxpayers by requiring accurate verification systems be established and implemented to ensure that only eligible Americans receive subsidies under Obamacare. Some estimates have put the expected cost of fraudulent payments at $250 billion under the current scheme. “The Obamacare regulations recently released by the Department of Health and Human Services, all 600 pages of them, indicated that the government would allow “self-attestation” to determine qualification -- In other words, the honor-system,” added Simpson. “Obamacare is a mess, and as Congressional Republicans continue to work to delay, defund, and eventually repeal the law, we also must insist on common-sense changes. Unfortunately, Democrats and the White House have largely opposed even simple things like H.R. 2775.” The bill passed the House 235-191 and moves to the Senate for consideration. President Obama has already threatened to veto the legislation should it come to his desk.
09.12.2013	Today the Idaho Congressional Delegation announced they will hold the 2013 Service Academy Day on Sat., Oct. 5 at Gowen Field, Boise, ID. The purpose of this event is to share information with prospective candidates and their parents about the congressional nomination process to our nation’s service academies. Registration for this event will take place at 1:00 p.m. and the program begins at 1:30. Speakers include: Idaho Cadets and Midshipmen, Academy Liaison Officers, Congressional Academy Coordinators and the Keynote Speaker will be Captain Thomas Neville, USNA Class of 1968. Please RSVP by September 25 by calling this year’s event coordinator, Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219 or by e-mail at linda.culver@mail.house.gov. She would be happy to answer any questions parents or students may have about pursuing an academy appointment or ROTC scholarship. Staff from Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl Labrador will also be onsite at Academy Day to assist Idaho students.
08.29.2013	“Since President Obama’s first presidential campaign, he has said that he supports an “all of the above” strategy for our nation’s energy policy. This is a popular phrase used by Members of Congress across the political spectrum in recent years. That is because there is a consensus that a growing and thriving economy requires stable and affordable energy supplies that come from diverse sources. In order to achieve this, our energy portfolio must include the traditional energy source like nuclear, hydro, coal, oil, and natural gas as well as incorporating more recent technologies that allow us to harness more renewable sources like wind, solar, geothermal, and others. “Unfortunately, President Obama’s rhetoric does not match his policies. In the nearly five years that he has been President, his Administration has offered more roadblocks than solutions to advancing our country toward energy independence. For example, although our country still heavily relies on imported oil, the Obama Administration continues to block permits for increased domestic energy production on our public lands with a myriad of bureaucratic hurdles and red tape. “We have the capacity to become energy independent if we can align our policies with safe development of our own resources. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, the United States has enough natural gas that is technically recoverable to sustain current consumption levels for over 90 years. In fact, as a result of oil and gas production on non-federal land, during the years of 2011 and 2012, the United States added a total of more than 850,000 barrels per day of oil production. The Congressional Research Service has reported that U.S. oil production has reached levels not seen in more than a decade. On the other hand, between 2007-2012, U.S. oil production fell by almost seven percent on federal lands, where approval from the Obama Administration is necessary. “Not only does increasing our domestic production of energy enhance our national security by allowing us to rely less on foreign sources of energy, it also creates jobs. The U.S. Energy Information Administration recently released a report that shows a major spike in employment in the oil and gas industry relative to the rest of private sector employment. The report found that from 2007-2012, ‘total U.S. private sector employment increased by more than one million jobs, about one percent. Over the same period, the oil and natural gas industry increased by more than 162,000 jobs, a 40 percent increase.’ “One way that President Obama could demonstrate that he truly supports an “all of the above” strategy would be to approve the Keystone XL pipeline. A new study released last week confirmed what the State Department’s initial assessment already found: the Keystone XL pipeline will not impact greenhouse gas emissions. If this project does not move forward, Canadian oil sands will make their way to market through alternative means. That would result in nothing more than a missed opportunity for billions dollars of investment, thousands of jobs created, and an unquestionable boost to the American economy. “As a nation, we must continue looking for ways to reduce energy prices and improve our energy independence. I strongly believe that our efforts should be comprehensive in nature and that we should explore every opportunity to develop viable traditional as well as alternative energy sources. I hope that the President can embrace a more realistic approach to our nation’s energy policy by taking steps towards realizing the potential of our own energy abundance. By easing his Administration’s burdensome policies, we can decrease unemployment while increasing our national security; two things that should be a priority for all of us.”
08.22.2013	“Let’s clarify something right from the beginning: the IRS scandal is real and it represents a serious breach of the public trust. The IRS has admitted they took inappropriate action in targeting conservative Tea Party groups for extra scrutiny and delayed many of their efforts to achieve tax-exempt status. Despite the claims of some, we know this to be true. Lois Lerner, who oversaw the tax-exempt division at IRS, said: They (IRS staff) used names like Tea Party or Patriots and they selected cases simply because the applications had those names in the title. That was wrong, that was absolutely incorrect, insensitive, and inappropriate — that’s not how we go about selecting cases for further review. We don’t select for review because they have a particular name. “Since then, some Democrats have tried to divert attention from the issue by claiming the IRS also targeted liberal groups, but an examination of the facts shows that those groups received nothing more than routine scrutiny. Senior IRS officials have placed blame on lower level workers in Cincinnati. The White House has called it a “phony scandal” (while the same day stating “we need to get to the bottom of what happened at the IRS.”) “As the scandal continues to generate plenty of noise, one question of mine has still not been answered. How do we prevent this from happening ever again? I hold out little hope that the IRS or the administration will fix the problem independently. After initially claiming they would “hold the responsible parties accountable” a 30-day review by the IRS found “no evidence of intentional wrongdoing.” “The House of Representatives is where a real solution to this problem must originate. I have already cosponsored legislation that would help prevent further politically-motivated discrimination by increasing penalties for such behavior. H.R. 1950, the Taxpayer Nondiscrimination and Protection Act would impose a fine of up to $5,000 and/or imprisonment for up to five years. This is a good start. “I’ve also cosponsored and voted for H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act, which recently passed the House. We learned this month that under Obamacare, the IRS will share personal information, including income and tax filing status, with states and other agencies to confirm whether or not Americans are eligible for tax credits in the new system. The IRS will use tax return data to check that household income matches what applicants declare. There are many people questioning the IRS’s ability to safeguard that information. At this point, the IRS has lost the trust of the American people as a politically unbiased organization, and Obamacare will only allow the IRS to reach further into our lives. “Unfortunately, we know that H.R. 2009 stands little chance of passage in the Senate, nor would it be accepted by President Obama. Still, it is important legislation and it sets the bar for future negotiations on IRS policy. “But despite these two pieces of legislation, there is more Congress must do in its oversight role. The Oversight Committee and the Ways and Means Committee are engaged in a thorough investigation, and despite the delays and obstruction by the IRS and the administration, Congress must thoroughly examine the facts and scrutinize those who acted improperly and hold them accountable. New policies must be put in place to ensure the IRS will act impartially in the future. “This issue is not about scoring political points; it is about restoring American’s trust in their government. This is one step Congress can take to right a wrong and bring transparency and accountability to the IRS. I look forward to these investigations as more information comes to light.”
08.15.2013	“Many of us lament the ridiculous jury awards we hear about on television or read about in the newspaper. We shake our heads at the actions of judges, juries, and lawyers who defy commonsense and seek or award judgments that are excessive by any measure. We know that everything from the price of electric razors to the explosion of health care costs is driven upward in some measure by a broken legal system that seems out-of-touch with the real concerns of daily life. “Nowhere are these laments more accurate than in the area of federal public land management. “Regrettably, extremist organizations and unscrupulous lawyers have been successful over the past few decades in making untrained federal judges, rather than trained federal land managers, the real decision-makers on federal land management actions. Even more regrettably, this transfer of authority from federal agencies to judges has been funded to a large degree by you, the taxpayer, through a broken law known as the Equal Access to Justice Act. “The Equal Access to Justice Act, or EAJA, began as a noble effort to provide people harmed by the federal government, but without the means to fight it, an opportunity to recover legal fees if their claims had merit. It was a worthwhile effort based on the concept that everyone should have the opportunity to challenge unjust actions of the federal government. “Today, EAJA has an entire industry of litigants built around it – many of whom have made a lucrative career out of second guessing virtually every decision the Forest Service or BLM makes and leaving range and forest lands unhealthy and prone to catastrophic fires. “This industry isn’t made up of ma-and-pa storeowners who are barely making ends meet. In reality, EAJA allows any business with a net worth of up to $7 million to participate but has no limits for the many so-called “non-profits” that engage in repeated EAJA abuse. “The excesses of EAJA abuse have grown so out-of-control that courts have awarded attorney’s fees as large as $600/hour and, in some cases, these awards go to litigants that haven’t even prevailed in making their case. Worse yet, the federal government seems incapable of keeping track of EAJA payments. “The result is that over the past two decades, tens of millions of taxpayer dollars have been awarded to a relatively small number of environmental litigants and that money has been used to file even more lawsuits. “To begin a process of reining in these excessive EAJA abuses and limiting the incentives toward public land management through the courts, a number of my Congressional colleagues and I are taking action. “As Chairman of the Subcommittee that funds the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the EPA, I have authored language requiring these agencies to report to Congress on the yearly costs of litigation, EAJA payments, and any settlements they agree to. And I am cosponsoring legislation that would cap reimbursements at $200 an hour, subject non-profits to the same standard as for-profits, and require that EAJA filers show a direct and personal monetary interest in order to qualify for payments. “Through these and other efforts, I am hopeful that we can return EAJA to its noble roots and limit the excessive abuses that have given a good program a bad name. In doing so, we can protect taxpayers from outrageous expenditures, remove the incentives that have led to thousands of needless lawsuits, limit the influence of federal judges in public land management, and restore the appropriate role of trained professionals in the decision-making processes of the Forest Service and BLM.”
08.08.2013	“In Idaho, we know the impacts of catastrophic wildfires firsthand. During fire season, many of us are impacted indirectly, and some have felt the heat of the flames as they have fought to protect their homes and livelihoods. As a lifelong Idahoan, I have seen where catastrophic fires have scorched the land so badly that nothing will grow. That’s why, as Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, it’s easy for me to understand the value of providing land managers and firefighters with the resources they need to manage and put out fires. “In the FY14 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, I have ensured that fire suppression is fully funded at the 10-year fire suppression average. Wildfire has a tremendous impact on the budgets of the Forest Service and the BLM—for the Forest Service, wildfire-related costs make up more than half of the agency’s budget. Therefore, in a budget environment where we have had to cut or eliminate “good to do” and even “need to do” priorities in order to address critical human health and public safety priorities, wildfire funding quickly rises to the top of the list. “My bill also includes funding for the Forest Service to acquire two new next generation heavy air tankers to replace its aging and increasingly obsolete fleet. Some of the air tankers used by the Forest Service are Korean War era planes, and the agency has been forced to ground a number of aircraft because of safety concerns. This bill takes the first steps to build a fire fighting fleet for the future. “While I have seen the destructive impacts of catastrophic fires, I’ve also seen where proactively removing hazardous fuels from an area has made the difference between relatively minor damage to resources and property and complete destruction. Recognizing the value and cost effectiveness of preventing wildfires versus fighting them, my bill increases funding for hazardous fuels removal by $200 million for the Forest Service and $87 million for DOI. Failing to adequately fund the hazardous fuels account would virtually guarantee that the cost of wildfire suppression will continue to rise in the future. This bill will help us to get ahead of the problem as much as possible. “Unfortunately, providing adequate funding for hazardous fuels removal cannot reduce the risk of catastrophic fire if that money never makes it to the ground. When fire costs exceed the agency’s fire budget, the agency is forced to borrow from hazardous fuels reduction and other accounts to pay for fire suppression. Robbing these accounts means that the Forest Service has fewer resources available for good forest management, and so fires get worse and wildfire suppression costs end up devouring the agency’s budget. “While we do our best to predict the coming fire season and budget accordingly, we never know how bad a fire season will be until it is over. During last year’s severe fire season, firefighting costs were higher than anticipated and the Forest Service had to borrow a great deal of funding from other non-fire accounts after running out of wildfire suppression funding. My bill tries to get ahead of this problem by providing an additional $600 million in fire suppression funding in an effort to address fire-borrowing. “These provisions have real impact on Idaho, and I’m disappointed that this bill was not voted out of Committee before the end of last month. I am hopeful that Congress will act quickly in order to ensure that land management agencies have the resources they need for fighting and preventing catastrophic wildfires this year.”
08.02.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported critical legislation to return accountability and transparency to the federal regulatory process. Simpson, an original cosponsor of the legislation, voted in favor of the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2013, H.R. 367, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 232 to 183. “The Obama Administration is using the regulatory process to force its agenda on the American people and it is weakening our economy and pushing the federal government further into our lives,” said Simpson. “The REINS Act is a crucial step in creating job growth and restoring economic confidence in America.” The REINS Act amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to require Congress to approve every new major regulation proposed by the executive branch. Federal agencies may no longer unilaterally adopt a new regulation that would cost over $50 million per year without congressional consent. By returning to Congress its constitutional charge, the REINS Act further holds Congress accountable to the American people for laws imposed upon them. “I believe Congress has a strong oversight role to play to ensure that federal agencies are not overreaching their authority and stifling job growth,” said Simpson. “I have heard from countless Idahoans who are frustrated with the impact of costly regulations on their ability to do business.” H.R. 367 now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
08.02.2013	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported passage of H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013. Simpson is a cosponsor of this legislation, which prohibits the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from enforcing any provision of the new health care law. Obamacare represents the largest expansion of IRS authority in history. “Following in the wake of the IRS scandal in which conservatives were systematically targeted, Americans are skeptical of the IRS embedding itself permanently into their health care with these new mandates,” Simpson said. “The IRS is charged with implementing some of the most controversial provisions of Obamacare – including the individual mandate which taxes Americans if they don’t purchase insurance.” The Obama Administration has recently delayed implementation of the employer health insurance mandate for one year, and the House of Representatives has voted to delay several portions of the law in addition to voting to defund and repeal it on numerous occasions. Recent studies have shown the expected cost of Obamacare increasing rapidly, while its expected benefits to Americans are shrinking. The implementation of the law is proving to be a major challenge for the Administration, which has admitted that major portions of it are not ready to become law starting next year. The bill passed 232 to 185 and now moves to the Senate for consideration.
08.01.2013	Congressman Mike Simpson voted today for legislation that would impose necessary oversight over regulations coming out of the EPA. H.R. 1582, the Energy Consumers Relief Act of 2013, would provide for an independent and thorough review of the economic impacts of EPA energy-related regulations by the Department of Energy and other federal agencies with energy expertise. The bill passed in the House of Representatives 232 to 181. H.R. 1582 would ensure that economic impacts are considered as part of future EPA regulations. Should a major energy regulation be found to have a significant negative impact on the economy following a mandatory audit, it could not move forward without a vote in Congress. “When you look at how much the major rules pending at the EPA would cost in terms of increased energy prices for consumers and job losses, it is clear that the Obama Administration doesn’t care about the full impact of its actions on the American people,” said Simpson. “We need to ensure that the true economic impact of EPA’s energy-related proposals are taken into consideration before any rule is finalized. H.R. 1582 provides for important oversight and transparency.” H.R. 1582 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
07.26.2013	“I'm certain that when you heard about the National Security Administration’s program to collect and save phone call data, you were concerned. You likely felt that your privacy had been disregarded or your trust had been violated. I imagine you wanted this program stopped—and stopped now. I know there is a legitimate distrust of government, especially in the wake of the IRS scandal. “I can imagine how you felt, because this is how I felt when I learned of the NSA program, now known as the "metadata" program. I understand wanting to squash this program at the first opportunity. And when that opportunity came through an amendment offered by Rep. Amash to an appropriations bill that would have wiped out the metadata program altogether, I gave it thoughtful consideration. However, in the years since the 9-11 attacks on our country, I have realized the importance of separating fears from facts. Terrorism in the 21st century raises hard questions and difficult challenges, and chief among them is a struggle to balance personal privacy with public security. If we want to protect our way of life, we must be willing to wade into this struggle and grapple for real solutions. “Unfortunately, the Amash amendment did not do that. Rather than carefully examining the metadata program and engaging in thoughtful debate, the amendment was a rash response in the heat of the moment and failed to recognize the unintended consequences of simply shutting down the program. Many who supported the Amash amendment claimed to be protecting the Constitution by supporting it. But in reality, supporting bad policy, even with good intentions, is not protecting our Constitution. This is why I joined a number of my other conservative colleagues, like Majority Leader Eric Cantor, former Vice Presidential Candidate Paul Ryan, Representative Steve King, and Representative Michelle Bachmann, in opposing this amendment. “We don’t need a thoughtless, visceral reaction that hurts our national security without protecting civil liberties. What we do need is good government oversight that leads to effective reforms that protect American lives and liberties. In order to do that, we have to understand what the metatdata program is…and what it isn’t. The metadata program is a tool intended to connect the dots when it comes to terrorist networks. Being able to connect these dots—knowing WHO the terrorists are—is one of the major challenges in the war on terror. If we can’t figure out who our enemy is, we can do little to protect ourselves against him. The metadata program connects known terrorists with those they are working with. It is like the information on the outside of an envelope that tells us who sent the letter and where it is going. It connects the dots. “What the metadata program is not is the government listening in on your phone conversations. It does not collect the contents of phone calls or record conversations. It does not allow content to be collected from a phone number unless a judge rules that it is linked to a terrorist. In the metaphor of the letter, the program collects the information on the outside of the envelope, which is reasonably expected to be public, but keeps the contents of the letter private. A similar rule applies to phone calls and the metadata program. “One other thing we know is that the intelligence community has used this tool to thwart attacks that would have killed hundreds of Americans. In 2009, the NSA intercepted a message from a suspected terrorist in Pakistan who was discussing bomb making with someone in the United States. That someone, Afghan-born Najibulaah Zazi, who was living in Colorado, is now in prison, and the FBI broke up his plot to bomb the New York subway. In another case, the NSA was watching a “known extremist” in Yemen who contacted someone in the US. With that information, the NSA and the FBI foiled their plot to bomb the New York Stock Exchange. Without the NSA metadata program, it is highly likely that both of these plots, and as many as 50 others planned across the world, would have been successful. “Pre-9/11, our intelligence laws were intended to prevent attacks from other nations. Today, we are up against threats from terrorists who work in the shadows—and sometimes from within our own borders. The metadata program links known terrorists with those we don’t yet know are involved in terrorism but who are living in the US. In doing so, it tries to close the gap between laws that allow us to go after terrorists who are still overseas and laws that protect terrorists who are already on our soil. And while this program may not be the right solution, there is no arguing that this dangerous gap is real and that terrorists will take advantage of it in attempts to kill Americans. “This issue raises hard questions. Does the proven potential for saving lives outweigh the risk to the personal liberties on which this country was founded? Asking the hard questions is one of the most important jobs of Congress, and unfortunately it is a job that Congress does not always do well. If there had been this much scrutiny over the IRS, there would never have been a scandal over who it unfairly targets. “With that in mind, it is important to point out that those of us who opposed the Amash amendment don't oppose the prospect of any new restrictions. Rather, we did so because we believe the experts in Congress on this matter, the members of the House Intelligence Committee, should be given the time to properly investigate the actions of the NSA, debate the merits of new restrictions, propose those new restrictions, and move them through Congress in a proper, open, and thoughtful process. Our nation's ability to combat terrorism and the sanctity of our Constitution are much too important to be rushed through Congress in the haphazard fashion put forward by Representative Amash and his supporters.”
07.25.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today for legislation to provide balance to EPA’s proposed coal ash regulations. H.R. 2218, the Coal Residuals Reuse and Management Act, would ensure that any regulation of coal ash is reasonable and preserves states’ rights. The bill passed by a vote of 265-155. Coal ash is the byproduct of coal combustion and is used to create roads, bridges, and buildings. It is also regularly recycled and used in construction materials. The EPA has promulgated rules to regulate coal ash, even though it is currently regulated by the states. “I’m concerned that EPA’s proposed rules would severely limit the availability of coal ash for construction uses and would greatly curtail recycling efforts, ultimately driving up energy costs,” said Simpson. “That being said, I do believe that reasonable regulations should be in place regarding coal ash, which is why I support H.R. 2218. Rather than creating a new and unneeded regulatory system, H.R. 2218 utilizes an existing federal regulatory program as the basis for enforcing federal standards for coal ash, but it leaves regulation and enforcement to the states, where it belongs.” The bill is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate. ###
07.24.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson recently joined colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama expressing concern at his intention to circumvent the will of Congress by issuing new rules for greenhouse gas provisions. The letter, which was signed by 23 Members of Congress, expresses concern about the negative impact that the President’s proposal would have on energy costs, national security, and economic recovery. It points to significant job losses in coal states—a nearly 30% decline in coal jobs in Kentucky alone between 2011 and 2012. “Sadly, Appalachia is not alone,” the letter reads. “Fully one-fifth of the nation’s coal plants—204 plants across 25 states—closed between 2009 and 2012. Seven EPA regulations proposed over the last four years will cost $16.7 billion annually once fully implemented…The rate hikes attendant with the loss of 69,000 megawatts of coal-fired power are forecasted to cost 887,000 mining, utility, shipping, and downstream manufacturing jobs across the country per year. The manufacturing sector, which was making a comeback due largely to affordable energy, will again be put at a cost disadvantage compared to foreign competitors.” Recognizing the reality that the United States is and will continue to be dependent on coal for many years, Simpson and his colleagues point out in the letter that the proposed regulations threaten our nation’s ability to achieve energy independence: “The United States has 250 years worth of domestic coal reserves at current consumption rates. These resources, combined with oil, natural gas, nuclear, and renewables, could finally make the United States energy secure—a goal of every presidential Administration since Richard Nixon.” Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Simpson’s recently-introduced appropriations bill for FY14 includes a provision preventing the new rules from going into effect.
07.23.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today brought the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2014 for a subcommittee vote. Simpson, who chairs the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment Appropriations, put forth a bill that complies with the House Budget by cutting funding for agencies under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction by over $5 billion. The bill included $2.9 billion in cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. This amounts to a 35% cut from current levels and brings the agency’s budget below FY 1978 levels. The bill also includes language preventing EPA from implementing the cornerstone of President Obama’s recently-announced climate change initiative. “This Administration's appetite for new regulations and disregard for the will of Congress have left us with little choice but to block his climate change agenda in this bill,” said Simpson. “The actions we've taken to address the EPA’s overreach and reduce its budget not only help us meet the tight spending constraints under which we're operating, they help our struggling economy and encourage job creators to invest and expand.” The bill includes a number of additional provisions to rein in EPA overreach and some of the costly regulatory actions being put out by the Obama Administration, including protection for farmers and ranchers from having personal information released by the agency, changes to the definition of navigable water under the Clean Water Act, and language regarding regional haze. The House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee marked up the bill today. It is expected to be taken up by the full Appropriations Committee next week.
07.23.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today brought his FY14 appropriations bill for the Department of the Interior, the Forest Service, the EPA, and related agencies before the subcommittee. Simpson chairs the subcommittee, which oversees the budget for agencies under its jurisdiction. The FY14 appropriations bill reflects current budgetary challenges by reducing funding by over $5 billion overall. On releasing the budget, Simpson noted that the difficult budget environment required making difficult decisions. “During our oversight hearings this year, we’ve stressed the need to separate the critical ‘must-do’ priorities from those that are nice or even very important,” said Simpson. “This means we’ve reduced and even terminated some programs that are popular with both Members of Congress and the American people in order to provide critical funding to fight and prevent wildfires, make sure our national parks stay open, and address human health, public safety, and treaty obligations and responsibilities.” The FY14 Interior and Environment Appropriations subcommittee mark funds programs under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction at $24.3 billion, which is a cut of $5.5 billion from the current fiscal year. This means that the bill has seen a 25% reduction since FY10 under Simpson’s chairmanship. Simpson’s bill focuses its limited resources on critical priorities like wildfire funding. The bill fully funds wildfire suppression accounts at the 10-year average and provides additional funding to prevent fire borrowing this year. It also provides funding for the Forest Service to acquire two next generation aircraft to fight fires, since the current fleet is nearing the end of its useful life. Recognizing the value and cost effectiveness of preventing wildfires versus fighting them, the bill also increases funding for hazardous fuels removal. The bill includes a number of other provisions, including: A one-year extensive of mandatory authorization for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which compensates local governments for the loss of income due to the presence of federal land; Permanent extension of language that allows agencies to renew grazing permits while environmental work is completed; Language delaying the decision whether to list the sage-grouse as an endangered species for one year to enable states and federal agencies to complete work on sage-grouse management plans; Language preventing the EPA from expanding its jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. During the markup, Simpson responded to criticisms of the bill by reminding subcommittee members about the very real fiscal challenges our nation faces. “One thing I didn’t hear in all of the comments that were made [from the other side of the aisle] is the fact that we are $17 trillion in debt. $17 trillion. Now, if you want to talk about leaving a legacy for future generations, let that continue to grow and grow and grow and not have the courage to do anything about it,” Simpson said. “We are not doing anything different [in this bill] than state legislatures have been doing for about the last four or five years in trying to address their budget problems. They’ve made tough and ugly decisions all across the board, but we act here like because we’ve got a printing press we are exempt from making those tough decisions. We’re not exempt; we’re $17 trillion in debt.” To watch Congressman Simpson’s statement from the subcommittee markup, visit his YouTube website. The full Appropriations Committee is expected to take up the bill next week.
07.18.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored H.R. 2707, the Clean Water Compliance and Ratepayer Affordability Act of 2013, which gives communities flexibility in dealing with Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) clean water regulations. This bill will direct the EPA to work with municipalities that are seeking to develop and implement integrated plans to meet their wastewater and storm water obligations. “Currently the EPA too often takes a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to dealing with municipalities and their waste water systems,” said Simpson. “Communities should have flexibility to meet federal clean water standards rather than being required to do so in a way that may be practically or economically unfeasible. Best practices for one community may differ than those of another.” Specifically, H.R. 2707 would create a pilot program through which 15 communities across the country will work with the EPA to craft compliance programs through the agency’s new integrated planning and permitting approach that meet each participating community’s particular needs. The pilot program will encourage approved local communities to pursue innovative and cost-effective approaches to Clean Water Act compliance without driving up costs unnecessarily through expensive and, often times, outdated mandates. “Decisions on how to best meet Clean Water Act standards, in the most economical way, can and should be made locally,” said Simpson. “We’ve seen this work in Idaho — the City of Boise’s Dixie Drain Project is a good example of how flexibility could allow the City to meet water standards in a more cost effective way — and I think this model could work in other communities as well. The EPA should work with individual citizens and communities to solve their needs in the most efficient and economic manner.”
07.17.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 42 Members of Congress requesting Acting Commissioner Daniel Werfel answer a series of questions related to recent privacy breaches made by the Internal Revenue Service. “Taxpayers must know the IRS is doing its job with integrity and fairness, both which have been in serious question in recent months,” said Simpson. “It is my hope that the agency will respond swiftly and in a manner that protects taxpayers from further privacy violations.” The letter expressed serious concerns regarding reports that the IRS permitted up to 100,000 Social Security numbers to be openly posted on government websites accessible to the public. Some of the questions the Congressmen want answers to are: Who and what department within the IRS is responsible for maintaining the Section 527 political organizations database? What is the procedure for documenting and publishing information in the database? Will the IRS be taking any actions to protect those individuals whose information was leaked? A copy of the full letter can be found here. This latest privacy breach is on the heels of the IRS improperly scrutinizing certain political organizations, particularly those with ‘tea party’ and ‘patriot’ in their names. Congressman Simpson cosponsored H.R. 1950, Taxpayer Nondiscrimination & Protection Act of 2013, which would help prevent further politically-motivated discrimination by increasing criminal penalties for such behavior. It would impose a fine of up to $5,000 and imprisonment of up to five years, or both. He also cosponsored H.R. 2009, the Keep the IRS Off Your Health Care Act of 2013, which would prevent the IRS from implementing or enforcing Obamacare. The IRS is tasked with overseeing some of the most controversial portions of the bill, including the individual health insurance mandate tax. “There is no excuse for the IRS practice of targeting any political organization or person, and Congress must act swiftly and decisively to ensure those who were responsible and had knowledge of the selective audits are held accountable and it does not happen again,” said Simpson. “Additionally, I will continue to investigate this recent report of a major leak of private citizen’s information, and demand answers from the IRS.”
07.17.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported two bills that would delay implementation of two of the most controversial provisions of Obamacare that are scheduled to come into effect in January 2014. Both passed in the House of Representatives. The first, H.R. 2667, the Authority for Mandate Delay Act, would codify a previous declaration in a blog post by the Obama Administration to delay the requirement that employers who employ more than 50 people full time provide minimum essential healthcare coverage or pay a fine. In agreeing to delay it, President Obama has declared that this portion of Obamacare is not ready for implementation and would have a negative effect on a fragile job market. The House also passed H.R. 2668, the Fairness for American Families Act, which delays the much maligned individual health insurance mandate for one year. The Obama Administration and the business community both agree that the employee mandate should be delayed, so it is only fair to extend that same relief to all Americans. “The Obama Administration and the business community, not to mention the House of Representatives, all agree we should delay the employer health insurance mandate,” said Simpson. “But we should also give some breathing room to American families by delaying the individual mandate. Americans are about to see their insurance premiums increase 100% on average with some studies predicting increases of as much as 400%.” Under the individual mandate, if Americans do not purchase a health insurance plan through an exchange, receive insurance through Medicaid, or receive employer sponsored coverage, they are subject to a new tax. To compound the problem, it is expected that millions of Americans will lose their previous employer based coverage as a result of the new mandates, and many will then be forced to either pay more for their own insurance plan, or pay the new tax. Both bills now move to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
07.11.2013	July 11, 2013 House Passes FY2014 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Simpson says legislation supports nuclear energy Washington, D.C. - Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues and supported the FY2014 Energy and Water Appropriations bill late last night. The bill reverses some of the Obama Administration’s cuts to nuclear energy and continues progress toward the development of new nuclear technologies, including those under development at Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson is a senior member of the Subcommittee, serving as one of its members for over ten years. “The House passed a thoughtful bill addressing our country’s energy needs while making difficult choices with taxpayer resources,” said Simpson. “I am grateful that Congress continues to support nuclear energy and the mission of Idaho National Laboratory.” There were numerous amendments offered to the bill including Amendment #1 by Representative James Moran (D-VA). This amendment would have altered the language in the bill that protects the authority of states by preventing the Army Corps of Engineers from expanding its regulation to include intrastate bodies of water under the Clean Water Act for any reason other than drinking water uses. Simpson spoke on the House Floor against the amendment and encouraged colleagues to vote against it, and the amendment was defeated with a final vote of 177-236. “I’m pleased this amendment failed. Deciding how water is used should be the responsibility of state and local officials who are familiar with the people and local issues,” said Simpson. “If all intrastate waters are regulated by the federal government, the language could be broadly interpreted to include everything within a state, including groundwater.” The fiscal year 2014 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill included $656.4 million for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy and $94 million for Idaho National Laboratory Safeguards and Security. The combined total of these numbers, $750.4 million, represents an almost $15 million increase over the President’s FY2014 recommendation of $735.5 million and a $38.5 million reduction from the FY2013 funding level. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $750.4 million allotment include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory, is funded at $181.6 million – a $28.5 million increase over FY2013 funding levels; · The Advanced Reactor Concepts program, which includes funding for fuel qualification associated with the Next Generation Nuclear Plant, is funded at $45 million; · The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program, including the Advanced Test Reactor National Scientific User Facility at the INL, is funded at $66.7 million; · Reactor Concepts Research, Development; and Demonstration is funded at $86.5 million; · Fuel Cycle Research and Development is funded at $91.1 million; · University Research Programs are funded at $5.5 million; · Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $110 million; · The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $21.5 million. The bill also provided $368 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $368 million is an increase of $3 million above the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $30.4 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. This level of funding represents a reduction of $2.9 billion below the FY2013 amount and $4.1 billion below the President’s request. “There is no denying the fact that declining budgets and sequestration have had an impact on almost every program and institution in this bill, including Idaho National Laboratory,” said Simpson. “However, I am pleased to see the direct impact on nuclear energy has been minimized and that progress on nuclear energy research and development will continue under this bill.” The bill passed the House with a final vote of 227-198 and will now be considered by the Senate. ###
07.10.2013	U.S. Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.) and Mike Simpson (R-Idaho) today led a meeting with other members of Congress and top officials at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to directly convey concerns they have heard from Oregon and Idaho onion farmers and fruit growers about new water quality rules that could cripple family farms nationwide. Walden and Simpson invited the FDA officials to travel to Oregon and Idaho, and the officials are planning a trip to Oregon, Idaho, and Washington next month to hear from Northwest growers first-hand. “When I heard concerns from eastern Oregon farmers, particularly onion growers, about new water quality rules the FDA is drafting, I asked for a meeting with the agency to air these concerns directly. I’m pleased that the agency has agreed to work with farmers as the rules are drafted, and that they are willing to travel to eastern Oregon and Idaho to hear from onion producers and other growers there directly,” Walden said. “A practical, common-sense rule will help achieve the goal of greater food safety without placing unnecessary regulatory burdens on American farm families that could drive them out of business.” “I’m greatly concerned about the impact the FDA’s proposed rule will have on agriculture in Idaho,” said Simpson. “With an administration that seems to issue an abundance of rules and regulations for all industry, it is especially important that we seek input from Idaho producers to ensure that we reach an effective and sensible solution.” The FDA delegation was led by Mike Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Foods and Veterinary Medicine. Other members of Congress present included Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.), Rep. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-Mich.), and Rep. Dan Benishek (R-Mich.). On June 21, Walden traveled to Nyssa, Ore. and met with onion growers who are concerned that the new regulations, as currently drafted, could force them out of business. Additionally, Walden has heard similar concerns from apple and cherry growers in the Columbia Gorge. Many farmers have pointed out that the proposed rule lacks common sense and a crop-specific approach, resulting in many of the proposed provisions being unworkable in the field, literally speaking. Walden and Simpson have heard from growers who are worried that grouping over 200 crops together in one category fails to account for differing risk profiles and production practices, which has led to the proposed requirements that may be unworkable for particular crops.
06.28.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted for legislation to increase domestic energy production and bring our country closer to energy independence. H.R. 2231, the Offshore Energy and Jobs Act, would expand offshore energy production, create over a million new American jobs and lower energy prices. The House passed H.R. 2231 today by a vote of 235-186. “A growing and thriving economy requires a stable and affordable energy supply, and this bill gets us closer to that goal,” said Simpson. “New technologies will enable us to do oil and gas exploration and production in a way that leaves a very small footprint, and it would be a mistake not to develop these resources in a responsible manner. Failing to do so would not only threaten our nation's own security by increasing our already too-heavy dependence on a volatile, foreign-based energy supply, but it would push the responsibility of producing that oil to countries with far less stringent environmental regulations.” The Offshore Energy and Jobs Act would require the Department of Interior (DOI) to move forward with new offshore energy production on the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, generating $1.5 billion in new revenue over ten years. The bill also codifies a number of the reforms to offshore energy regulation undertaken by DOI in the wake of the Deep Water Horizon accident in 2010. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees DOI's budget. H.R. 2231 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
06.28.2013	“This past weekend the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) presented an updated cost estimate of Obamacare, and like many updated estimates before it, this one paints the long term impact of the law in a much less favorable light then was originally promised by its supporters. “While we already know that the long-term cost of the bill will add enormously to the national debt, two findings from this weekend in particular are troubling. “We are now learning that more workers will lose their existing employer insurance coverage than originally thought and more people will remain uninsured, even under the dramatic coverage and cost expansion the law creates. “In 2010, the CBO estimated that about 3 million people would lose their employment-based coverage, but updated estimates find that it will be 7 million. While a number of factors come into play here, one key reason for the change is that there has been “increased employer responsiveness to alternative options.” In other words, employers are discovering that they would rather pay a $2,000 fine to the government instead of subsidizing their employee’s plans, which would cost them about $10,000 for a family policy. If this trend continues, the overall cost of the bill will swell exponentially when it is implemented. “We have long known that millions of people would remain uninsured under Obamacare, but the total estimated number continues to increase. Currently there are about 48 million Americans uninsured. In 2010 the CBO estimated that under Obamacare that number would decrease to about 20 million uninsured by 2016, but new projections show that number will be closer to 30 million. This 50% increase can be attributed partially to the Supreme Court ruling that states could not be forced to expand their Medicaid programs. Regardless, things are not heading in the right direction. “In addition, the government agency implementing many portions of Obamacare - including the controversial individual health insurance mandate tax - is the IRS, an agency that has not lately been praised for its impartiality or transparency. That is why I have cosponsored H.R. 2009, which would prevent the IRS from implementing or enforcing Obamacare. “As my initial fears about Obamacare are playing out, I am continuing to support efforts to delay, alter, or repeal provisions of the law. Unfortunately, unless the Senate acts on one of these bills, Obamacare will be coming fully into effect next year. President Obama is unlikely to accept any changes to what he considers his signature accomplishment. That being said, as this law is implemented, its problems will become clear to opponents and supporters alike. Until then, I will continue to register my disapproval and work to return health care decisions back into the hands of patients, families, and doctors.”
06.27.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today said his FY2014 Interior and the Environment Appropriations bill will be part of the battleground over President Obama’s intention to issue new rules, regulations, and executive orders on greenhouse gas emissions. Simpson is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment which funds the Department of Interior, U.S. Forest Service, and the Environmental Protection Agency. “President Obama has once again demonstrated to the American people that he has little regard for the legislative process or concern for the economic impact of his regulatory appetite,” said Congressman Simpson. “For that reason, and because I believe Congress is the appropriate place to debate new greenhouse gas regulations, I intend to address this issue in the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. Whether through provisions in the underlying bill or through amendments, I expect that when my bill reaches the House floor we’ll have a robust debate on the President’s contempt for the congressional processes envisioned by our Founders and on the overreach of his upcoming actions on greenhouse gases. I am very much looking forward to that debate.” Simpson’s statement comes on the heels of President Obama’s announcement this week that he will act unilaterally to curtail greenhouse gas emissions from our nation’s energy production facilities. Simpson said that not only do the President’s actions circumvent the appropriate role of Congress, they drive up costs for virtually everything by targeting a huge portion of our nation’s energy production. “I am confident that our entire conference understands both the danger of allowing the President to circumvent Congress and the devastating consequences to our economy and job creation if these new rules and regulations are approved,” said Simpson. “That is why I believe we’ll address this issue in my bill and on other legislative vehicles in the coming days, weeks, and months.”
06.27.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson praised the work of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development in crafting a bill that reverses some of the Obama Administration’s cuts to nuclear energy and continues progress toward the development of new nuclear technologies, including those under development at Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson is a senior member of the Subcommittee, serving as one of its members for over ten years. “I am pleased that the Appropriations Committee has once again demonstrated its support for the development of nuclear energy and provided the resources necessary to continue our nation’s progress on new and promising nuclear technologies,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho National Laboratory plays a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. The Subcommittee had to make some very difficult choices about where to focus limited taxpayer resources, and I am very grateful for the confidence my colleagues have shown for nuclear energy in this bill.” The fiscal year 2014 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes $656.4 million for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy and $94 million for Idaho National Laboratory Safeguards and Security. The combined total of these numbers, $750.4 million, represents an almost $15 million increase over the President’s FY2014 recommendation of $735.5 million and a $38.5 million reduction from the FY2013 funding level. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $750.4 million allotment include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory; is funded at $181.6 million – a $28.5 million increase over FY2013 funding levels. The Advanced Reactor Concepts program, which includes funding for fuel qualification associated with the Next Generation Nuclear Plant, is funded at $45 million; The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program, including the Advanced Test Reactor National Scientific User Facility at the INL, is funded at $66.7 million; Reactor Concepts Research, Development; and Demonstration is funded at $86.5 million; Fuel Cycle Research and Development is funded at $91.1 million; University Research Programs are funded at $5.5 million; Small Modular Reactor Licensing Support Programs are funded at $110 million; The Light Water Reactor Sustainability program, which promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors, is funded at $21.5 million. The bill also provides $368 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $368 million is an increase of $3 million above the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $30.4 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. This level of funding represents a reduction of $2.9 billion below the FY2013 amount and $4.1 billion below the President’s request. “There is no denying the fact that declining budgets and sequestration have had an impact on almost every program and institution in this bill, including Idaho National Laboratory,” said Simpson. “I am pleased to see the direct impact on nuclear energy, however, has been minimized and that progress on nuclear energy research and development will continue under this bill.” The bill was approved by the House Appropriations Committee and is expected to be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. The complete Committee report can be found at: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-113-hr-fy2014-energywater.pdf.
06.17.2013	Legislation authored by Congressman Mike Simpson addressing water issues in Idaho wilderness areas was passed by the House of Representatives today. H.R. 876, the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act, authorizes and permits historical water diversions in the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Area and the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness area that existed before the wilderness designations. Similar legislation sponsored by Congressman Simpson was passed by the House during the 111th and 112th Congresses. “H.R. 876 fixes a long-standing problem that was brought to my attention during conversations with Idahoans,” said Simpson. “These water diversions, which are primarily used to support irrigation and minor hydropower generation, existed before the wilderness areas were designated, but the Acts creating those wilderness areas overlooked them. By going back and providing the appropriate authorization to these diversions, this legislation gives private land owners the ability to properly maintain them or fix them when they need repairs.” H.R. 876 would authorize the Forest Service to issue special use permits for all qualifying historic water systems in the wilderness areas. Such authority will ensure that existing water diversions can be properly maintained and repaired when necessary and preserve beneficial use for private property owners who hold water rights under state law. “This bill provides a simple and reasonable solution to a problem that should be solved. At some point in the future, each one of the 25 existing diversions will need maintenance or repair work done to ensure their integrity – passing this legislation will allow any needed work to begin without delay,” said Simpson. “I look forward to the Senate acting on this bill, which has passed the House multiple times.” H.R. 876 passed 398-0 and is now awaiting action by the U.S. Senate. To view Congressman Simpson’s floor speech on the bill visit his YouTube page.
06.13.2013	The House Appropriations Committee today passed the fiscal year 2014 Agriculture Appropriations bill. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a member of the committee and once again offered an amendment to allow states to include fresh potatoes in the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) nutrition program, administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Simpson’s amendment passed by voice vote. “Fresh potatoes have been excluded from the WIC program despite their widely known nutritional value,” said Simpson. “This amendment corrects the exclusion of fresh potatoes and allows participants to make wholesome food choices for their young families.” Potatoes are currently excluded from the WIC program despite being nutrient dense, affordable, low in calories, and free of fat, cholesterol, and sodium. A medium-sized potato contains more potassium than a banana and is a good source of dietary fiber—both of which are “nutrients of concern,” meaning those nutrients most lacking in Americans’ diets, according to USDA’s current Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The bill was approved by the full committee on a voice vote and now awaits consideration by the full House. To view Congressman Simpson defending fresh potatoes in the House Appropriations Committee, visit his YouTube page. For the text of the bill please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-113hr-sc-ap-fy2014-agriculture-subcommitteedraft.pdf and http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-113-hr-2014-agriculture.pdf.
05.24.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women have been officially appointed to the United States service academies. Simpson nominated the students in December 2012 in order to be accepted to the academic year of 2013/14. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the service academies,” said Simpson. “I am always impressed by the quality and character of our youth in Idaho. Each person is a fine example of what our state has to offer. They are bright and articulate and I’m proud of these exceptional students who were selected to serve.” Nominations were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extra-curricular activities. The following students from Idaho were appointed to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York; or the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. BOISE · Julen Totorica – US Military Academy · McCall Kerkman – US Naval Academy · Grant Hruby – US Air Force Academy · Nathanael Szuch – US Air Force Academy · Adrianna Lutu – US Air Force Academy · McCall Kerkman – US Air Force Academy IDAHO FALLS · Nathan Marshall – US Naval Academy AMMON · Samantha McCain – US Air Force Academy FAIRFIELD · Mickenzie Boggs – US Military Academy RUPERT · David Borden – US Naval Academy SALMON · Emily Taylor – US Air Force Congressman Simpson is currently accepting applications for students who seek nomination for the 2014/15 academic year. Information about eligibility and answers to other common questions can be found under the student section on Simpson’s website: simpson.house.gov. The application is also online.
05.23.2013	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 1911, the Smarter Solutions for Students Act. The bill would prevent interest rates on new federally subsidized undergraduate Stafford Loans from increasing to 6.8% from their current rate of 3.4%. It permanently moves the rate to a market-based rate, tied to the 10-year Treasury Note. The bill passed 221 to 198. “I have always said that every student who wants to attend a college or university should be able to, and money should not be an impediment to higher education,” said Congressman Simpson. “It hurts our country if capable students don’t seek higher education because they can’t afford it.” The bill would effectively take Congress out of the business of setting student loan interest rates by providing a permanent fix and tying rates to the market rate. On July 1st rates go up to 6.8% as required by current law. If this bill becomes law it is estimated the rate will be 4.4%, and the rate would be reset once a year to keep to the 10-year Treasury Note. The bill is also estimated to save $3.7 billion over 10 years. “The longer Congress fails to act and the closer we come to July 1st, the more concerned students and families become that their rate will double,” added Simpson. “An increase of that size would be overwhelming for many students seeking a new federal loan in this economy.” The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Meanwhile, the so-called “loan cliff” is barely more than a month away.
05.22.2013	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 3, the Northern Route Approval Act, which would put an end to years of bureaucratic delays and allow construction of the Keystone XL pipeline project. The Keystone XL pipeline would transport crude oil from the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, to refineries in the United States. Because the pipeline would connect the United States with a foreign country, it requires a Presidential Permit issued by the State Department. The State Department must find that the project would serve the national interest before it can issue the permit. The first application to the U.S. State Department to build the pipeline was submitted in 2008, and after a thorough environmental review, in 2011 an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) found that the pipeline would have limited adverse environmental impacts during its construction and operation. “Moving forward with the permitting of the Keystone XL pipeline would create jobs and reduce our dependence on unstable foreign sources of oil,” said Simpson, “I am disappointed that the President appears to be playing politics with our nation’s energy security.” Canadian pipeline company TransCanada has estimated that it will invest $7 billion in the United States to build the pipeline, and that up to 20,000 jobs would be directly created by the pipeline’s construction. The U.S. Department of Energy estimates that the Keystone XL pipeline would be able to move 830,000 barrels of oil per day, which represents about half of the amount the U.S. imports from the Middle East. “This project has broad bipartisan support in both the House and the Senate, and it has been reviewed and studied for five years. Its economic implications for this country are too important to delay any longer,” Simpson said. The Northern Route Approval Act would eliminate the need for a Presidential Permit, and finds that the Final Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Secretary of State on August 26, 2011, shall satisfy all environmental review requirements. It also addresses all other necessary federal permits and limits legal challenges that could serve as further delays to the advancement of the project. The House passed H.R. 3 by a vote of 241-145. It will now move to the Senate for further consideration.
05.16.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of H.R. 45, which fully repeals the Affordable Care Act (ACA). He was a cosponsor of this legislation, which passed the House of Representatives 229 to 195. Today the House voted to repeal the ACA for the first time in the 113th Congress following on the heels of a report compiled by the House Energy and Commerce Committee requesting an updated analysis of the costs of the ACA as estimated by the nation’s 17 largest health insurance companies. “To be perfectly frank, Idahoans are well aware this is hardly the first time the House has voted to repeal the ACA,” said Congressman Simpson. “In fact, this is the 37th time the House has voted to repeal part or all of the law since it was implemented. While it may sound like a poor use of Congress’ time, I believe it is a reflection of how deeply unpopular the law remains, not just in the House, but across the country and especially in Idaho.” Among other things, this study found that Americans’ insurance premiums will increase at enormous rates. It found that consumers purchasing health insurance on the individual market will likely face premium increases of nearly 100% on average, with some increases of more than 400%. Small businesses can expect average premium increases for small group plans of about 50%, with potential for a 100% increase in some cases. “The Obama Administration has finally admitted that there will be premium increases for Americans, but this study found that many people could see their premium double next year when the law is fully implemented. This is a far cry from what the Administration promised while the law was debated, in fact, they claimed the law would lower costs for families and businesses.” Simpson added, “I thought those claims were dubious at the time, but we now know they are simply untrue- in fact, the opposite is true, the cost of health insurance for most Americans is about to skyrocket.” The bill will now move to the Senate, where it is unlikely to receive consideration by the Democratic majority.
05.09.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 1825, the Recreational Fishing & Hunting Heritage Opportunities Act of 2013. This legislation would ensure that public land managers facilitate access for fishing, sport hunting, and recreational shooting on federal land managed by the BLM and Forest Service. “Access to hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities is one of the reasons Idahoans love where they live,” said Simpson. “Hunters and anglers have a long heritage of enjoying these activities on public lands, and this bill ensures that they continue to have access to traditional recreational activities, even as land management plans change.” As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Simpson oversees funding for public lands agencies like the BLM and the Forest Service. Simpson strongly supports appropriate recreational activities, including hunting and fishing, on public lands.
05.08.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson examined the President’s budget proposal for the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) during an appropriations subcommittee hearing yesterday. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees the budget for the BLM and other land management agencies. During the hearing, Simpson questioned BLM Principle Deputy Director Neil Kornze on grazing, sage-grouse, and the impact of frivolous litigation on the agency. In his opening statement, Simpson commended BLM, which is working to meet a court-imposed listing deadline, for its efforts on sage-grouse conservation. “That being said,” he continued, “I want to make sure this investment will actually improve sage-grouse habitat and prevent the species from being listed in 2015, which would be devastating across the west. Now more than ever we need to see a return on this investment, not just wasting this funding on planning exercises that don’t help us reach our goal.” As Simpson continued, he criticized BLM’s focus on limiting existing uses of BLM land, like grazing and recreation, in order to protect sage-grouse, rather than focusing on the primary threats to the species. “As we all know after the last fire season, the greatest threat to sage grouse is wildfire,” Simpson continued. “Two million acres of priority sage grouse habitat burned in wildfires. But as BLM focuses on sage grouse, it seems that the agency is looking mostly at limiting existing uses rather than controlling invasives like cheat grass and preventing wildfires. In fact, your budget decreases funding for hazardous fuels removal. Last year’s fire season shows us that no matter how much we limit existing uses of public lands, wildfires could easily be the nail in the coffin for sage grouse listing. This is a top priority for me—and we need to work together on a real solution. ” Simpson also raised his concerns about the cost of frivolous litigation to the taxpayer and the impact it has on the ability of the BLM to carry out its mission. “When I raised this issue with outgoing Interior Secretary Salazar a couple of months ago,” he said, “he responded that he was, at the time, the defendant in 3,000 lawsuits. Three thousand! That number alone tells you that we have a problem with frivolous lawsuits.” The hearing also covered issues including renewable energy production on public lands, proposals to increase grazing fees, and invasive species.
05.08.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today questioned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Acting Administrator regarding the President's FY14 budget proposal for the EPA. As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Simpson oversees the EPA's budget. During the hearing, Simpson focused on water infrastructure and the need to reduce federal spending. Over the past two years that Simpson has chaired the subcommittee, he has cut the EPA’s budget by over 20 percent. In his opening statement, he responded to criticism of these cuts. “Let’s not lose sight of the bigger picture,” Simpson cautioned. “Between 2009 and 2010 the Interior bill increased by $4.6 billion and EPA’s budget increased by $2.65 billion. This was an unprecedented 35 percent increase in EPA’s budget in one year alone. With that in mind, the FY14 budget would still provide EPA with a half a billion dollar cushion.” “I highlight this point to provide context for the ongoing discussion about the continued need to reduce Federal spending,” he continued. “It also exemplifies the degree to which unchecked spending was the norm in Washington just a few short years ago. And even with the targeted reductions to the Agency’s budget over the past three years, we still have yet to break even.” Chairman Simpson also raised the issue of funding for water infrastructure. Earlier this year, he hosted an oversight hearing on this issue, looking at funds appropriated to the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Funds and the infrastructure needs throughout the country. The State Revolving Funds start with federal seed money provided to state and local communities as loans with matching requirements. “As I understand it, these funds were eventually supposed to be self-sustaining. Is there a point at which that happens so that these communities have access to the funds they need for their water systems? In the hearing we had on this issue, it was said that there was a $700 billion backlog, and doing this at $2 or $3 billion a year it'll take us almost 250 years to address all the needs out there,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, the $2 billion we put into this each year puts huge pressure on the rest of our budget, but it doesn't address the problem. This is a huge problem and we need to come up with a solution. How do we get from point A to point B?” In light of these concerns, Simpson criticized the agency’s budget priorities, particularly the choice to eliminate funding for the rural water technical assistance grants. “It's a tough budget year, so I assume that you reduced lower priority things and funded the higher priority things,” Simpson said. “So it seems like what you’re saying is that [a new EPA building in Las Vegas] and a new public outreach program are more important than the rural water technical assistance. I guess I’m questioning your priorities…At some point we need to ask ourselves whether we prefer to cut everything just a little bit in order to get the deficit under control -- and in doing so we fund all programs at a reduced rate which may help no one -- or do we decide to eliminate a few programs that have run their course.” ###
05.08.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in the U.S. House of Representatives in passing legislation that allows private sector employers and employees to establish agreements that provide for compensatory time off in lieu of monetary overtime compensation. H.R. 1406, the Working Families Flexibility Act of 2013 passes the house with a final vote of 223-204. “It can be very difficult to balance the needs of family and work,” said Simpson. “H.R. 1406 offers individuals an opportunity to meet family obligations by choosing paid time off as compensation rather than overtime hours. This is a decision that should be made between employers and employees; the federal government should not be an impediment to those who seek flexibility.” Specifically H.R. 1406: Allows employers to offer employees a choice between cash wages and comp time for overtime hours worked. Employees who want to receive cash wages would continue to do so. No employee can be forced to take comp time instead of receiving overtime pay. Protects employees by requiring the employer and the employee to complete a written agreement to use comp time, entered into knowingly and voluntarily by the employee. Where the employee is represented by a union, the agreement to take comp time must be part of the collective bargaining agreement negotiated between the union and the employer. Retains all existing employee protections in current law, including the 40 hour work week and how overtime compensation is accrued - at 1.5 hours earned for each hour worked. The bill adds additional safeguards for workers to ensure the choice and use of comp time are truly voluntary. Allows employees to accrue up to 160 hours of comp time each year. An employer would be required to pay cash wages for any unused time at the end of the year. Workers are free to ‘cash out’ their accrued comp time whenever they choose to do so. “The bottom line is I cosponsored and voted for this bill because it provides more flexibility for workers to use their earned overtime however they choose without losing the option to continue receiving it as the always have,” added Simpson. “It also protects employers, many of whom want to offer this to their employees but currently cannot because it is not allowed by law. Employers know that providing options to their employees who are working parents, pregnant, or who are seeking a college or advanced degree, is good for moral and good for business.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
04.26.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported H.R. 527, legislation that would address the impending closure of the Federal Helium Reserve later this year by allowing it to continue supplying helium while also reforming our nation’s helium policy. The Federal Helium Reserve was created in 1926 to ensure a steady helium supply for the nation’s defense needs. However, federal demand did not live up to expectations, and by the 1990’s, the Reserve had accrued a $1.3 billion debt. In 1996, Congress passed reforms to require the sale of the Federal Helium Reserve by 2015. The Reserve is expected to pay off the debt earlier than expected, by October 2013, without having sold off all of the helium. As a result, the Reserve, by law, will close and no longer have the authority to sell the remaining 11 billion cubic feet of helium. This will create an immediate worldwide helium shortage and cut the domestic supply in half. “Thousands of high-tech manufacturing jobs in the United States depend on a reliable supply of helium,” Simpson said. “If the Reserve stopped making helium available for sale to private entities, a significant delay might not just slow the production of computer chips, but the computers, life-saving medical devices, and weapons systems that they power.” Micron Technology, based in Boise, is a large semiconductor manufacturer and a global leader in computer memory technology. Micron has been working to develop alternatives to helium, but for some processes, has been unable to find another option. Semiconductor manufacturing is a complex process which can take weeks and use hundreds of processes to make a single chip. It requires sophisticated equipment and techniques developed by the world’s leading scientists and engineers. “The semiconductor industry is not only considered a key American industry, but it is vital to our Idaho economy,” said Simpson. “This industry employs a quarter million people nationwide, and it is one of our largest exports.” H.R. 527 establishes a phased-in process for the sale of helium from the Reserve. Phase 1 will continue Reserve operations as they are under current law for one year to ensure a stable and secure supply of helium in the near term. Phase 2 will establish auctions for helium sales. Revenue from the auctions will go towards operating the Reserve, with any excess directed to the general Treasury; and Phase 3 will reserve the last remaining 3 billion cubic feet of helium for federal national security and scientific needs. H.R. 527 passed in the House 394-1 and now moves to the Senate for consideration.
04.26.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today blasted a Forest Service budget proposal that cut funding for active forest management in favor of funding the fire budget and new land acquisition. U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell testified on the budget in front of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which Simpson chairs. The hearing covered a variety of issues, including fire borrowing, Secure Rural Schools, and the states’ role in managing public lands. Chairman Simpson started the hearing by expressing his concern about the impact that the forest fire budget has on the ability of the Forest Service to manage healthy forests. Because the Forest Service must borrow from other accounts to pay for fire costs when those costs exceed the agency’s budget, the Service’s ability to prevent catastrophic fires in the future could be jeopardized. Simpson noted that today only 30% of the Forest Service’s budget is dedicated to actually managing the national forests, compared to 70% in the mid-1980’s. “Every time I’m in Idaho I hear from Forest Supervisors, District Rangers, and other Forest Service employees that they cannot manage their forests with the shrinking amount of funding they receive,” he said. Simpson noted that the Senate's decision to strip funding intended to reimburse the agency for fire borrowing during the devastating 2012 fire season left the Forest Service with holes to fill in FY14 but expressed concern about the fire budget in the President’s request. “The Senate’s decision not to fund fire in the CR did not do you any favors, but this budget proposal doesn’t seem to help you either,” said Simpson. “Generally, we know that projects reducing the threats of catastrophic fire also create jobs, generate revenue for the Treasury and reduce future fire suppression expenditures. So I am extremely disheartened by the dramatic cuts in hazardous fuels funding. It seems like this budget has enacted fire borrowing before it is needed, stripping funding from other accounts to put it into fire fighting. That concerns me.” “These cuts have real consequences,” he continued, “and they will be felt acutely in communities that depend on public lands for their economic vitality and way of life. In many counties in my district and across the country, public lands make up the vast majority of the land base and are one of the only sources of income for residents. [Yet this] budget proposes to cut recreation, livestock grazing, minerals and energy, and forest products. Essentially the Administration is cutting the programs that have the most positive impact on the economy.” During the hearing, Simpson also expressed support for extending the Secure Rural Schools program, which provides an alternative source of education funding for counties with a high percentage of national forests or federal land, and encouraged the Forest Service to partner with states to improve forest management. “States have public forests and therefore foresters and public land managers who are already doing some of this work right next to national forests,” said Simpson. “I think there needs to be some way to improve the relationship between the Forest Service and the states so you can partner with state foresters to get some of this work done.”
04.18.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today pressed the Fish and Wildlife Service Director on efforts to preserve sage grouse and the need for ranchers to receive compensation for livestock lost to wolves. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Service. Noting that the Service must make a decision about whether or not to list sage grouse as an endangered species by the end of FY2015, Simpson asked Director Dan Ashe what efforts are in place to prevent that listing. He also pointed out the value of the state management plan that Idaho has been working hard to develop in order to protect the bird and, hopefully, prevent a listing. Director Ashe said that the Fish and Wildlife Service concurs that Idaho’s state management plan and a well managed range are good for sage grouse; he added that the parties involved are seeing “good momentum.” He said “we’ve got a lot of work to do, but everyone is talking to one another.” “Do you agree that wildfire is the greatest threat to sage grouse?” Simpson asked. Director Ashe said that while habitat degradation has traditionally been the largest threat to sage grouse, wildfire may be the most significant factor now. Simpson noted with concern that the recently-passed Senate continuing resolution fail to adequately address wildfire. The Senate CR struck $97 million that was included by the House for wildfire suppression to address widely expected shortfalls in 2013. Simpson expressed frustration that funding intended to compensate livestock owners for the loss of livestock killed by wolves is not getting on the ground. He noted that the wolf livestock loss demonstration program was specifically authorized by Congress, yet the Service has still not spent the funds appropriated for the program in FY12. After the hearing, Simpson said he would continue to press the Service to see that those who have suffered losses because of wolves are adequately compensated. Simpson also discussed the Service’s backlog maintenance, and the impact that sequestration cuts are having on the Service’s work during the hearing. “I don’t see us getting out of the hole we’re in any time soon if we don’t address this debt crisis that we’re in… we can’t keep managing from crisis to crisis and expect to continue to offering the same level of services that we always have.”
04.12.2013	Idaho Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 1120, legislation that would prohibit the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from taking any actions that would require a panel quorum vote until the constitutional question surrounding the legitimacy of the board members is decided. In January of 2012, President Obama made two recess appointments to the NLRB, but that move was ruled as unconstitutional in a unanimous decision by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals because the appointments were not approved by the U.S. Senate as is required, and the Senate was not in recess. The case has been referred to the U.S. Supreme Court. Compounding the problem, the three NLRB board members in question have refused to step off the board, but instead have continued issuing significant decisions despite the questions surrounding their legal authority. “This legislation simply orders the NLRB to cease activities that require a vote of the board until we have a legitimately appointed board, or until we have a decision one way or another from the Supreme Court,” said Simpson. “The board continues to issue decisions that may not be legally enforceable.” Many employers have already begun attempting to block or void rulings of the NLRB and challenge them in court on the basis that they are unconstitutional. If the Supreme Court rules that the President’s appointments were unconstitutional then the hundreds of NLRB decisions since that time would be nullified. “Even labor leaders have admitted that the D.C. Circuit ruling has undermined enforcement of the law,” added Simpson. “It doesn’t make sense to have the NLRB continue issuing major decisions until this question has been answered.” H.R. 1120 would stop the NLRB until either the Supreme Court rules on the constitutionality of the appointments, the Senate confirms the board members constitutionally, or the terms of the board members come to an end at the end of the year. It passed in the house 218-209 and now moves to the Senate for consideration.
04.12.2013	Congressman Mike Simpson today expressed his deep concern over the impacts of cuts to the National Park Service’s operating budget during a budget hearing with the agency. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, noted that private funding was required for Yellowstone National Park to open on time this spring, and that gateway communities in Idaho are concerned about impacts to their economies. Simpson blasted the $22 million reduction to the Park Service’s operating accounts—which comes on top of the five percent across-the-board cut under sequestration—included in the Senate continuing resolution. “It’s no secret that sequestration is having a detrimental effect on a number of Park Service functions,” Simpson said. “It’s for this reason that the House actually proposed in its version of the FY13 Continuing Resolution freezing the Park Service operating accounts—in other words, not making additional cuts beyond sequestration. Unfortunately, things didn’t turn out as the House would have liked with regard to your budget.” Simpson asked about the maintenance backlog throughout the Park Service, and the pressure that adding new units may create in a constrained budget environment. He pointed out that he sees no end in sight to the current environment of austere federal budgets, and also questioned how the Park Service is “looking outside the box” in order to create a more stable, long term financial footing for itself. Simpson is a strong advocate for an all-of-the-above approach to our nation’s fiscal challenges. As such, he has supported reducing spending in discretionary accounts to find billions in savings over the past few years. However, discretionary accounts only make up about one-third of federal spending. The other two-thirds comes from mandatory programs like Medicare, Social Security, and Medicaid. Even if Congress completely eliminated discretionary spending, without reforms to mandatory spending, the nation would still have a budget deficit. After the hearing, Simpson said, “Our budget situation requires us to make difficult decisions. It will force us to set careful priorities and do more with the limited resources available. We can either continue trying to offer the same services but be less and less effective at them or we can simply decide not to do certain things any more. I am hopeful that we will not have to completely abandon our national parks, which have rightly been called “America’s best idea,” because we fail to take major steps to reform our entitlement programs.”
04.11.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today hosted outgoing Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar at a hearing of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee to discuss budget issues. Simpson, who chairs the subcommittee, oversees the budget for the Department of the Interior. He asked Salazar to discuss what he sees as challenges going forward for the Department, many of which are deepened by sequestration. Simpson immediately raised concerns that both the recently-passed Senate continuing resolution and the President’s budget proposal for FY14 fail to adequately address wildfire. The Senate CR struck $97 million for wildfire suppression funding that was included by the House to address widely expected shortfalls in 2013. “One of the surprising things that happened in the CR is that the Senate decided that we don’t need to fund wildfire suppression,” said Simpson. “That decision will likely lead to additional fire borrowing before the end of the fiscal year, robbing operations accounts even further. And now within this budget you’ve also reduced the hazardous fuels account by $87 million, which means that we are also not addressing the long-term costs of fires.” Noting that the 2012 fire season was devastating in Idaho and that the 2013 season is projected to be even worse, Simpson added, “There are very real consequences for failing to provide wildfire funding.” Simpson also talked about the impact sequestration cuts are having on Idaho counties. “Some of the biggest worries I hear from county commissioners in Idaho are about how cuts to PILT [Payment in Lieu of Taxes] and Secure Rural Schools are going to impact their budgets. Most people don’t realize that in some counties, schools would have to shut down if SRS payments went away. These cuts will have very real impacts on Idahoans.” At the end of the hearing, Chairman Simpson commended Secretary Salazar for working to address western issues during his tenure as Secretary of the Interior. Salazar retires at the end of the week, as incoming Secretary Sally Jewell was confirmed by the U.S. Senate yesterday.
04.10.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson responds to the release of the president’s budget for FY 2014. “President Obama’s budget proposal, though it does acknowledge the $16.8 trillion nation debt and offers some noteworthy reforms, still falls well short of the kind of long-term serious debt proposal needed to spur growth, restore confidence, and bring common-sense budgeting back to Washington, D.C.,” said Simpson. The President’s budget never comes to balance, and it only offers $1.8 trillion in deficit reduction, less than half of what is needed to stabilize the debt and put it on a downward path relative to the size of the economy. Additionally, it offers up significant tax increases while falling short in reducing spending or reforming mandatory programs like Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security which make up about two thirds of the budget. “I am encouraged that the Budget does begin to acknowledge the real drivers of the national debt by finally including some reforms to Medicare and Social Security,” said Simpson. “While it does offer proposals that will trim mandatory spending, it doesn’t go far enough to protect and preserve these programs for the next generation, or reduce their explosive growth.”
03.22.2013	“The House of Representatives passed the House Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2014 this week, offered by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan. I supported this budget and was pleased that it passed with strong Republican support. “A budget resolution is an important document, but there are misconceptions about what exactly a budget resolution is, and what it does. Rather than directing how taxpayer dollars are spent, the real purpose of a budget resolution is simply setting “caps,” or limits, on spending each year over the next ten years. With the caps set, the resolution then provides a long-term blueprint for the functions of government by suggesting just how Congress would control spending and revenue to keep the budget below the caps. "Since 2009 the Democratic controlled Senate has not offered a budget resolution in spite of the fiscal challenges facing our country. As a result, we haven’t known what the Democrats plan for addressing this crisis would be. Republicans have had to compare our policies against theoretical ideas, speeches, and concepts offered by Congressional Democrats, but no actual budget. “But this year is different. This year they put their plan down on paper. “As you would expect, the proposed Senate Democratic Budget is very different than the House Republican Budget. The Ryan Budget slows the growth of spending and brings it in line with revenues, leading to a balanced budget in ten years. The Democrats’ budget never balances, reflecting comments from President Obama and others that there is no debt crisis and we don’t need to balance the budget. Our budget reduces spending by $4.6 trillion over the next decade; the Democrats’ budget increases spending by $265 billion. “The Ryan Budget calls for fundamental tax reform, adding fairness to the code and reducing tax rates on all Americans; the Democrats impose a new $900 billion dollar tax increase. Our budget repeals the health care bill. We also reform Medicare and Medicaid to add competition and transparency to the system and slow their growth, which is currently occurring at a rate faster than we can control discretionary spending. These reforms won’t impact anyone 55 years or older. The Democrats ignore the math on Medicare, allowing a broken system to fail those who depend on it while eating up every penny in the budget. “While the House and Senate have different visions, the reality is that neither is going to get everything they want. At the end of the day it will take some combination of Republican and Democrat ideas to solve this debt crisis. Recent polls have shown that 70% of Americans want the two sides to work together to replace the sequester, fix the debt, and end the practice of managing from crisis-to-crisis. It will take a combination of real spending cuts, pro-growth tax reform which brings in revenue, and reform of Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid. I will continue to encourage my colleagues to recognize that this is not a purity test--it is about math, and it is about governing.”
03.22.2013	Idaho Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 935, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2013. H.R. 935 removes duplicative requirements that have added layers of paperwork on top of day-to-day operations for small businesses, farmers, and local governments by clarifying that pesticides which are already regulated under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) are not also regulated under the Clean Water Act. In 2009 a federal court overturned the EPA’s long-standing positions that the application of pesticides, which are regulated under FIFRA, did not require a Clean Water Act permit. Under the court ruling, pesticide users, which include not only farmers and ranchers but cities and counties, mosquito control districts, and other water users, are now required to obtain a duplicative and unnecessary permit. “Adding an additional layer of regulation on an already-regulated activity doesn’t make applying pesticides safer,” said Simpson. “Instead, it adds more paperwork, cost, and increased risk of litigation for cities and counties, farmers and ranchers, and irrigation and drainage districts. These new regulations do nothing to protect public health or the environment. In fact, since the new regulations have made mosquito control operations more costly and forced municipalities to curtail pesticide applications, cases of diseases like West Nile Virus have tripled since 2011.” H.R. 935 is a bipartisan, widely-supported bill that addresses this issue of pesticide regulation by removing redundant red tape while ensuring the health and safety of communities are protected. Identical legislation, also cosponsored by Simpson, was passed by the House of Representatives in 2011; however, while it advanced out of the Senate Committee by a unanimous vote, it was not taken up on the Senate floor during the previous Congress.
03.21.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today held a subcommittee briefing with outgoing Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar. The briefing gave subcommittee members the opportunity to discuss ongoing issues and challenges with Salazar as he wraps up his tenure as Secretary of the Department that manages many of the public lands in the United States. During the briefing, Chairman Simpson focused many of his comments and questions on the cost of frivolous litigation. Simpson expressed deep concern that frivolous lawsuits are siphoning funding away from critical priority programs and legitimate land management responsibilities but are unaccounted for in the budget. “The truth is that there are people on both sides of the issue who, if they don’t get their way, will just sue,” said Simpson. “And as budgets decline, litigation goes up. This is a major challenge that we face: how do we protect the public’s ability to have a say in how their public lands are managed while limiting wasteful, frivolous lawsuits?” Salazar underscored the point in his response, saying that, as Secretary of the Interior, he is currently the defendant in over 3,000 legal cases against the Department. Simpson and Salazar also discussed the impact of the nation’s fiscal challenges on the Department and agency operations, as well as the need for consolidation and reorganization among federal agencies. Simpson’s subcommittee has scheduled a number of hearings on the President’s FY14 budget request, which is expected to be released in April.
03.13.2013	Congressman Simpson today supported H.R. 890, the Preserving Work Requirements for Welfare Programs Act of 2013. This bill would extend the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program and reject “guidance” issued by the Obama Administration last year to allow states to waive work requirements for welfare recipients. The bill passed the House 246 to 181. The issue became embroiled in controversy last July when the Department of Health and Human Services announced it would grant waivers to states from the requirement that about half of those families receiving benefits from TANF have one or more family members either enrolled in job training or employed and working. “TANF is an important program for many families in Idaho and across the country,” Simpson said. “It helps families emerge off welfare programs and begin working, saving, paying taxes into the system, and contributing back to society.” Under current law, states have the ability to strengthen welfare-to-work programs, waivers are needed only to weaken current work requirements. “The Administration claims to be offering more flexibility to states to design programs, but allowing for the possibility of softer work requirements is not the direction Americans want these programs to go,” said Simpson. “If anything we should strengthen work requirements, and I hope Congress can work in a bipartisan fashion to reauthorize TANF, close loopholes, and improve the program.”
03.06.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported a continuing resolution that extends government operations through the end of the fiscal year with a provision specifying that cuts under sequestration must be enacted for all non-security accounts as required by current law. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, was instrumental in ensuring that the CR included adequate funding for fire suppression shortfalls in FY13. “Idaho and the West faced an intense fire season in 2013, requiring more funding than initially budgeted to protect communities and manage resources,” said Simpson. “While we do our best to predict a fire season and budget accordingly, some years are worse than expected, and it’s not until all is said and done that we can take stock of the costs and respond appropriately.” H.R. 933 provides $570 million to address shortfalls in fire accounts. This includes $97 million for the Department of the Interior and $473 million for the Forest Service. With carry-over and reserve wildfire funds exhausted through budget cuts in recent years, the Forest Service had to borrow roughly $600 million from non-fire accounts to meet fire suppression needs in FY13, the largest transfer in recent history. With the entire fire season accounted for, the continuing resolution fully restores these accounts. “If we continue to rob land management accounts to pay for fire suppression, we are going to see fires that are bigger, more catastrophic, and much, much more expensive,” said Simpson. “This funding makes those accounts whole so that the agencies can do the work necessary to improve the health of our forests and rangelands. More work needs to be done to remove hazardous fuels buildup and prevent catastrophic fires, and so in addition to this funding we need to review or existing fire policy and continue to look at management reforms.” H.R. 933 passed the House by a vote of 267-151. The current funding resolution expires on March 27, and the bill will now be considered by the U.S. Senate.
02.26.2013	Senator Alan Simpson (R-Wyoming), Senator Mark Warner (D-Virginia) and President of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget Maya MacGuineas recently joined us at a federal fiscal issues symposium hosted by the University of Idaho’s McClure Center for Public Policy Research. The symposium provided an opportunity for us to sit down with some of those working to find solutions to America’s fiscal crisis and discuss with Idahoans the debt crisis that threatens our nation’s future. America is at a debt to Gross Domestic Product ratio that no nation in the last 200 years has been able to sustain without serious economic consequences. As panelist Maya MacGuineas framed it, our debt levels are already doing damage: “Our economy is not growing as fast as it otherwise could be…We are not going to be able to have a vibrant economy until we quit borrowing so much.” The solutions are difficult but achievable, and require that all options must be on the table. We know that we must control federal spending, and a revenue solution is part of the remedy. We know that we must have budget enforcement mechanisms that will finally keep Congress within adopted budget limits, and we know that there is a pathway out of this if we act now. We also know that the worst of all possible options is doing nothing. If we do nothing, our entitlement programs—Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security—continue screaming toward insolvency. If we do nothing, the bond markets will solve this program rather than Congress or the President, and the consequences will be devastating. But, we have opportunities to make progress in this terrible crisis. We have the opportunity to reform the overly-burdensome tax code and make America a strong, competitive economy again. We must enact pro-growth tax reform, which would simplify the tax code for all Americans, grow our economy and make American businesses more competitive. We have the opportunity to reform our entitlement programs and put them on paths to solvency. We also have the opportunity to put in place budget enforcement mechanisms that give Americans confidence that federal spending limitations will be honored. Achieving these reforms would reassure America’s future. This is the economic challenge of our lifetime and will determine the future of our country. We must come together and work out a solution that includes tax and entitlement program reform, deficit reduction and tough budget enforcement mechanisms. It should, and must, include the participation of all Americans in finding and implementing solutions. During the symposium, we took questions about whether spending cuts through sequestration are expected to take effect, the future of Social Security and Medicare, the impacts of potential defense spending cuts and expected changes in support of veterans. We heard from a small business owner seeking tax certainty and simplicity and a family physician wondering about the impacts on affordable health care if something or nothing is done to address the deficit. We heard from a local mayor and county commissioner wondering about the impacts of deficit reduction on the ability of communities to provide necessary services. We heard from a dairy farmer interested in passage of a Farm Bill with existing farm programs. We heard from a college student and teacher wondering about the potential impacts of deficit reductions on education. We thank the McClure Center for hosting this valuable discussion. We hope that through this symposium and others more Americans gain a deeper understanding of the solutions necessary to avoid the worst option—doing nothing—by utilizing our opportunities to strengthen our economy. You may access Senator Crapo’s and Congressman Simpson’s websites through the following links: http://crapo.senate.gov/ and /. The symposium, which was broadcast on Idaho Public Television, can be accessed through the following link: http://video.idahoptv.org/program/idaho-reports/
02.12.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after President Barack Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight. “My disappointment in President Obama isn't necessarily with his words, it is with his actions. As he has done before, he spoke tonight about reforming our tax code and entitlement programs. Yet when his own deficit reduction commission issued its recommendations, he ran away from them. He talked once again tonight about embracing bi-partisan change, yet he rejected the bi-partisan budget solutions Speaker Boehner put before him last year. He talked once again tonight about growing our economy, but is simultaneously threatening to circumvent the role of Congress in the issuance of new regulations. President Obama gives a good speech, but his actions rarely, if ever, match his words.”
02.06.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported passage of H.R. 444, the Require a PLAN Act, today. H.R. 444 requires the President to submit a supplemental budget proposal by April 1, 2013 in the event that the President’s initial 2014 budget submission does not achieve balance. It would require that the President’s supplemental budget identify how he would achieve a balanced budget, include policies that will be implemented to attain this goal, and offer an explanation of those policies. The bill passed the House with a final vote of 253-167. “In Idaho, we know how to live on a budget. Families do it. Our Governor and State Legislators do it. The Federal Government needs to do the same,” said Congressman Simpson. “Congress is willing to make the difficult decisions in order to balance the budget, but the President needs to make similar decisions - he needs to produce a PLAN to get our economy back on track.” The Budget and Accounting Act of 1921 requires the President to submit a budget each year on the first Monday in February. Despite this legal obligation, the President has failed to submit a timely budget four out of the last five years. The first and last timely budget submission occurred on February 1, 2010. Moreover, with respect to the FY 2014 budget, the President acknowledged on January 11, 2013 that he would not submit his budget as required by law and failed to identify a date for submission. “America realizes we can’t borrow our way out of this situation,” Simpson said, “House Republicans have already passed legislation this year that would require the House and the Senate to pass their budgets on time, with the penalty of failure being withholding the pay of the Members in each body. This policy is heavily supported by the American people and is now law. The President should also be held accountable.” When President Obama’s then Budget Director, and current Treasury Secretary nominee Jack Lew testified before the House Budget Committee on the FY12 Budget, Congressman Simpson asked him similar questions about when the President’s budget plan would achieve balance. Lew admits that the President’s budget never balances. Watch the video clip here.
01.22.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored legislation introduced last week to ensure that Americans can continue to hunt, fish, and shoot using traditional ammunition and fishing tackle. H.R. 322, the Hunting, Fishing, and Recreational Shooting Protection Act, responds to efforts to ban traditional ammunition and fishing tackle containing lead parts and clarifies the EPA’s jurisdiction over certain sporting goods. “Hunting and fishing are integral to Idaho’s culture, and hunters and anglers play an important role in preserving the wild places in our state and our way of life,” said Simpson. “While I support efforts to shift away from lead bullets and tackle, I believe these efforts should be voluntary and private, not mandated by the federal government.” Recently a coalition of conservation groups filed a petition with the EPA to ban the manufacture, processing, and distribution of lead bullets, shot, and sinkers. While EPA denied part of the petition because the agency lacked regulatory authority, it claims to have jurisdiction over fishing sinkers and therefore continues to review that part of the petition. H.R. 322 clarifies that EPA does not have authority to regulate lead tackle under the Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) and prevents them from banning traditional tackle or ammunition with lead components. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the EPA’s budget, cosponsored and supported similar legislation during the 112th Congress.
01.17.2013	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressman Mike Simpson are asking the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to recognize Greek yogurt under their MyPlate nutrition guidelines. In a letter to Secretary Vilsack, they point out that Greek yogurt has twice the protein and more calcium than regular yogurt, and is low in fat. Besides recognizing Greek yogurt in MyPlate nutrition guides, which is part of the USDA food guidance system, the group also requested a pilot program be set up within the Children Nutrition programs to allow schools to receive credit for protein content when serving Greek yogurt. “We urge the USDA to update the agency’s nutrition guides to reflect the many benefits of Greek yogurt. Not only is it a great source of calcium, a serving of Greek yogurt has more protein than the same amount of beans. By allowing schools in the National School Lunch and Breakfast Programs to get credit for serving Greek yogurt, kids receive a healthy product and it is a positive economic impact for Idaho,” said the three members of Idaho’s congressional delegation. In December of 2012, Chobani Yogurt opened the largest Greek yogurt processing plant in the world in Twin Falls. The new plant currently employs 300 workers with all of the milk for the yogurt production coming from Idaho dairy farms. At full capacity, the Chobani plant in Idaho will produce 4.2 million cases of yogurt per week. “The new Chobani plant is a big economic boost to the Twin Falls region and to the state. As federally elected officials, we believe it is our duty to ask the USDA to add Greek yogurt, based on its great nutritional benefits. The other big benefit is increasing jobs at the plant and on Idaho dairy farms as Greek yogurt becomes even more popular in the country,” the Idaho members added. Joining the three members of Idaho’s delegation in signing the letter are Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) and Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY). Chobani’s first plant operates in New Berlin, New York.
01.01.2013	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson tonight voted in support of H.R. 8 – the American Taxpayer Relief Act. Among its provisions, H.R. 8 cuts taxes for nearly all taxpayers. The measure also permanently fixes the Alternative Minimum Tax and provides a $10 million per couple exemption from the estate tax. “While I remain a strong proponent of a more comprehensive approach to solving our nation’s long-term fiscal crisis, this bill is a critical piece of legislation that lowers taxes for nearly every taxpayer,” said Simpson. “The unfortunate reality is that under current law every taxpayer was hit today with a tax increase. The bill we passed blocks those tax increases for nearly all Americans -- effectively lowering the taxes they were to begin paying today. It is also important to note that H.R. 8 will provide permanent tax certainty for individuals, families, businesses, and farmers who are ready to invest their money but have been reluctant to do so without knowing how much they’ll be taxed. Resolution of the tax rate uncertainty is critical to economic recovery and job creation.” Among its many provisions, H.R. 8 would: Protect individuals making less than $400,000 and families making less than $450,000 from the tax increases contained in current law. Allow the payroll tax cut to expire. Enact a permanent patch to the Alternative Minimum tax which was set to impact up to 30 million Americans. Provide a $10 million per couple exemption from the estate tax. Prevent a 27 percent reduction in payments to Medicare providers. Extends unemployment benefits through 2013. Simpson also stressed his strong belief that Congress and the White House must agree to a larger, more comprehensive package of spending cuts and reforms to entitlement programs and the tax code to put our nation on a stronger fiscal footing. “The passage of this bill does not diminish the fact that Congress and the White House must remain committed to a much larger and more comprehensive package of deficit reduction measures in the very near future,” said Simpson. “That package must include significant reductions in discretionary spending and major reforms to both entitlement programs and our outdated tax code. These reforms should be aimed not only at reducing our deficit in significant ways, but at creating a pro-growth tax code and putting entitlement programs on a much stronger path toward solvency for both current and future retirees.” Simpson is among a group of House members leading the Go-Big Coalition which is advocating an aggressive approach toward reducing the deficit by at least $4 trillion over the next ten years through a combination of spending cuts and reforms to the tax code and entitlement programs.
11.28.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the hiring of a new Regional Director for his Idaho Falls office, Ethan Huffman. Laurel Sayer, the former director, now resides in Boise and continues to be Congressman Simpson’s Natural Resources Director for the state. “Ethan’s experience and abilities will be a great asset to me and the people I represent in Eastern Idaho,” said Simpson. “The Idaho National Laboratory is extremely important to the area and Ethan’s vast understanding of the Lab’s budget, capabilities and workforce will be tremendously helpful.” Huffman graduated from Idaho State University with a BA in Mass Communications and has been employed at the Idaho National Laboratory since 2004. Recently, Huffman was a lead for external outreach at the lab where he oversaw day-to-day operations of communication activities focused on nuclear energy, national security and environmental research and development. “I'm sincerely grateful for the opportunity to work for Congressman Simpson and to have both the opportunity and responsibility to support the people of Eastern Idaho,” said Huffman. As regional director, Huffman will manage the Idaho Falls office and will act as Congressman Simpson’s representative and liaison for the area. Constituents are encouraged to contact Huffman in Congressman Simpson’s Idaho Falls office located at 410 Memorial Drive, Suite 203 or call at 208-523-6701.
11.28.2012	Congressman Mike Simpson and many members of the Go Big Coalition today met with Senator Alan Simpson, Erskine Bowles, and a number of leaders of the Fix the Debt Coalition. “We had a very good conversation today about the challenges facing Congress as the fiscal cliff approaches and the national debt continues to grow. Anyone who tells you the debt can be fixed with only spending cuts, entitlement reform, or tax reform is not being truthful about the enormity of a $16 trillion debt, all options must be on the table and Congress must work in a bipartisan fashion to solve this looming challenge. Our country needs honest, thoughtful leaders with the political courage to solve this issue once and for all; and today’s meeting renewed my hope that Congress can find common sense bipartisan solutions to avoid the cliff and begin taking real steps to reduce the debt.”
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined colleagues in requesting a meeting with Majority Leader Eric Cantor to discuss the importance of allowing a five-year Farm Bill to be brought to the House floor so members can have a vote. Without congressional action, the 2008 Farm Bill and its authorized programs will expire at the end of this month. Simpson continues to urge his colleagues in the House of Representatives to bring a full reauthorization to the House floor for a vote. “Farmers and ranchers in Idaho and across the country need some certainty,” said Simpson. “Allowing the current Farm Bill to expire and certain agriculture programs, like the dairy program, revert back to early 20th century laws at the end of this month is not an option. We are running out of time, and Congress should be allowed to vote on a new five-year Farm Bill.” This is the second letter Simpson has sent to House leadership asking to bring the new Farm Bill, already passed by the House Agriculture Committee, to a vote on the House floor. Farm bill legislation addresses issues including agriculture, food stamps and nutrition, land and water conservation, and energy independence.
09.13.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today opposed an effort by Congress to put off finalizing a federal budget for six months. Rather than completing work on next year’s budget before the current fiscal year ends on September 30, the House passed H.J.Res. 117, a continuing resolution which extends discretionary spending until the election is over and a new Congress is in place. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, voted against the CR, expressing his continued frustration at Congress’s inability to complete its work. "In spite of the fact that September 30 comes at the same time each year, Congress continually fails to fulfill its constitutional responsibility to fund government operations through the regular process,” said Simpson. “When we fail to pass annual appropriations bills, we fail to look critically at how agencies spend taxpayer dollars and lose opportunities to make government work better. It is time that we take the long-term CR off the table as a viable alternative to meeting our constitutional obligation.” The continuing resolution funds discretionary government programs at current levels through March 27, 2013, with a slight across-the-board increase to meet the overall spending level previously agreed to in the Budget Control Act. The House Appropriations Committee has passed all but one FY13 appropriations bill in committee, and seven bills have passed on the House floor. “Let me be clear, shutting down the government is not an option,” said Simpson. “But making it a regular practice to fund government operations through continuing resolutions is also an abdication of Congress’s oversight responsibilities. I’m frustrated that Congress has become satisfied with simply kicking the can down the road. We have run out of road. It’s time to stop hiding our heads in the sand and start addressing the challenges facing our country.” In spite of Simpson’s opposition, H.J.Res 117 passed the House by a vote of 329-91. The measure is expected to be taken up by the Senate in the coming days.
08.30.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the Blaine County Fire Chiefs have been awarded a four year $1.7 million grant. The Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Grant will help recruit and retain volunteer firefighters for Blaine County. “Fire departments, like many businesses and institutions, have been hit hard during these tough economic times,” said Simpson. “The number of emergency responses has increased in Blaine County placing a strain on fire departments and their volunteers. I’m hopeful this grant will help the County recruit more volunteer firefighters and improve their emergency response capabilities.” A volunteer firefighter will put in several hundred hours of time between responding to emergencies and training within a year. This grant will allow volunteer firefighters to earn a set amount monthly that can be used for tax deferred benefits such as healthcare insurance, retirement and other benefits. The volunteers will have to maintain a certain level of participation to receive these benefits. “I was very excited to learn of the grant award for the Recruitment and Retention of Volunteer Firefighter/EMTs,” Wood River Fire & Rescue Chief Bart Lassman said. “In my many years as a Chief of a volunteer fire and rescue department this has been the largest hurdle to overcome and affects service to our citizens. These grant funds will allow us to provide benefits to our existing volunteers and recruit new volunteers through new advertising and media channels.” The Blaine County Fire Chiefs (BCFC) moved forward applying for this grant last year after being encouraged to try to provide benefits for volunteering. Blaine County fire departments have limited paid staffing in several departments and the need for good dedicated volunteers is very high. There are approximately 145 active volunteers in Blaine County and the BCFC would like to increase that number to over 240 active volunteers by the end of this grant. The recruitment and retention of additional volunteer firefighters will help protect thousands of citizens. An increase in volunteer firefighters also will support operational needs, providing adequate staffing to ensure timely emergency response capabilities. SAFER funding is a competitive grant program that is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration.
08.01.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted for H.R. 8, the Job Protection and Recession Prevention Act of 2012. This legislation would extend through December, 2013, the low-tax policies originally enacted in 2001 as part of the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act. “I cannot support raising taxes on Americans while we struggle to emerge from a recession,” said Simpson. “Tax relief is vital to job creation, and in times of economic uncertainty it is especially important that we implement policies that promote growth in our nation’s economy.” Some of the tax relief extensions include: Lower marginal rates. H.R. 8 would extend the current tax rates through December 2013. By enacting H.R. 8 into law a family of four earning $50,000 a year will keep $2,200 in taxes they would have to pay if the tax rates expired. Marriage penalty relief. H.R. 8 would extend the existing marriage penalty relief through 2013. $1,000 child credit. Under current law, a tax credit in the amount of $1,000 per child under the age of 17 is available, but it is scheduled to revert to $500 per child in 2013. H.R. 8 extends the $1,000 child credit amount through 2013. Estate tax relief. The lower estate tax rate is scheduled to revert to its increased pre-2001 levels in 2013. H.R. 8 extends the current rate through 2013. Education-related and other tax benefits. Currently there are various education-related tax benefits – including an exclusion for certain employer-provided educational assistance and an expansion of the student loan interest deduction. Under current law, these education-related and other tax benefits are scheduled to expire at the end of the year. Under H.R. 8, these benefits would be extended through 2013. “While I remain extremely concerned about our ever growing national debt, to simply allow these tax relief provisions to expire now would be detrimental to our fragile economy and simply ending them is not a responsible approach to reducing the debt,” said Simpson. “The proposal by congressional Democrats to end the tax relief for individuals making more than $200,000 per year, including small businesses, the primary job creators in the country, is not a real solution. Their proposed policy would only save enough money per year to pay off interest payments on the debt for one month. It does not address the problem or reduce the debt.” H.R. 8 passed the U.S. House with a final vote of 256-171. Tomorrow the House will also consider a companion bill, H.R. 6169, the Pathway to Job Creation through a Simpler, Fairer Tax Code Act of 2012. This tax reform legislation will direct relevant committees in Congress to develop comprehensive tax reform that yields lower rates and closes special-interest loopholes. “As Congress debates proposals to address the budget crisis, conversation about fundamentally reforming our tax code is a key factor in the discussions,” said Simpson. “If we truly want to get our budget deficit under control, we must fundamentally reform our tax code. The tax code should be a simple system intended to raise the necessary revenue for appropriate government functions, not a complex system through which the government directs social behavior."
07.26.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported legislation today that will help reduce the uncertainty plaguing our economy as a result of the Obama Administration’s excessive regulatory rule writing. H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act passed the House with a final vote of 245-172. “I have been stunned by the volume of regulations promulgated by the current Administration, and I am well aware of the economic impact these rules have on Idaho businesses,” said Simpson. “Our government needs to take a close look at the economic effects of federal mandates already being imposed, instead of saddling our job-creators and small businesses with even more burdensome and costly regulations.” H.R. 4078 would freeze regulations that cost the economy $100 million or more until the unemployment rate stabilizes at or below six percent. It would also prevent a “lame duck” administration from issuing economically significant new rules. Additional provisions of this bill: Require independent federal agencies such as the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) to comply with the same regulatory review requirements as other agencies and require increased transparency with respect to unfunded mandates that are imposed on state and local governments. Ensure that impacted parties have a right to intervene before federal agencies agree to binding legal settlements that require them to issue new regulations. Create a streamlined process for consideration of federal permits for construction projects. Require both the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission(CFTC) to conduct more thorough cost-benefit analyses of proposed regulations. The bill will now move to the Senate for consideration.
07.25.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4157, the Preserving America’s Family Farms Act. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of the bill, which prevents the Department of Labor (DOL) Secretary from reissuing a proposed rule that would limit farmers’ and ranchers’ ability to hire youth to work in agriculture. “This DOL proposal was a misguided idea that threatened the ability of America’s youth to work on family farms and other agricultural operations,” said Simpson. “It would also restrict families in their efforts to pass on the generational knowledge and the hands-on learning that is critical to the survival of the agricultural industry.” When H.R. 4157 was originally introduced, it explicitly prevented the Secretary of Labor from finalizing or enforcing the proposed child labor regulations that would have prohibited young people under the age of 16 from working on farms. The proposed rule was subsequently withdrawn in April, 2012, following objection from the agricultural community. Congressman Simpson was pleased when the DOL dropped the proposed rule that would have transformed the way of life for thousands of family farms and ranches across the country, and he cosponsored H.R. 4157 that would prevent this absurd and overreaching rule from being considered in the future. The Preserving America’s Family Farms Act now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
06.29.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, moved the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 through committee this week. The bill contains several provisions essential for preserving responsible access to public grazing and may be considered by the full House within the next month. “This bill strikes an appropriate balance between resource management, resource protection, and resource enjoyment,” said Simpson. “The bill provides the resources necessary to manage federal lands for a multitude of uses while at the same time providing the funding required to protect our most treasured parks, forests, and refuges. It ensures that agencies have the resources they need to meet their obligations but does so within a reduced budget that reflects the fiscal challenges facing our nation. It is not a perfect bill - it is a compromise bill that focuses on the biggest issues facing public land managers and the very real challenges facing the Treasury and taxpayers.” The bill also addresses the growing, and unaccountable, costs to taxpayers of the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA). Simpson is concerned that while EAJA was intended to provide a mechanism for lower and middle income individuals to challenge the actions of an onerous federal government, it has become a slush fund for wealthy extremists in search of taxpayer funding of their unending, and oftentimes frivolous, lawsuits. “The Equal Access to Justice Act is the perfect example of a well-intended federal program that has become far too expensive and morphed into something far removed from its intended purpose,” said Simpson. “Today, EAJA is funding frivolous and legitimate lawsuits alike and doing so at great cost to the taxpayer. The Interior bill shines a light on EAJA’s excesses by requiring detailed reports on who is receiving taxpayer money and how much they’re getting. This is information the public has a right to see but has been difficult, or impossible, to get for far too many years.” Highlights of the bill and report: Grazing: Makes permanent a provision enabling the BLM and Forest Service to renew expired grazing permits while focusing environmental review on the most environmentally sensitive areas; Includes a provision allowing the trailing of livestock to grazing allotments on public lands without unnecessary environmental review; Includes a provision allowing 20 year grazing permits for the Forest Service and BLM; Litigation: The bill makes permanent language requiring litigants to exhaust the administrative appeals process before litigating in federal court on grazing issues. The report also includes language directing the Department of the Interior, the EPA, and the Forest Service to provide the Appropriations Committee with detailed information regarding EAJA payments and to make that information publicly available. The information required includes: detailed reports on the amount of program funds used; the names of the fee recipients; the names of the federal judges; the disposition of the applications (including any appeals of action taken on the applications); and the hourly rates of attorneys and expert witnesses stated in the applications that was awarded, for all EAJA fee payments awarded as a result of litigation against any of the Department of Interior bureaus, the EPA, or the Forest Service, or their respective employees. The report shall also include the amounts, outside of EAJA awards, paid in settlement of such litigation. Such information will also be included with each agency’s annual budget submission in the future.
06.29.2012	The House Appropriations Committee marked up the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 this week. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, put forth a bill that responds to our nation’s fiscal crisis by cutting $1.2 billion from the current fiscal year’s level. The bill included $1.4 billion in cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. “The biggest complaint I hear about the federal government is how the EPA is creating economic uncertainty and killing jobs,” said Simpson. “The EPA’s overly aggressive regulatory agenda and large budgets are signs of an agency that has lost its bearings. Throughout the Obama Administration the EPA has seen the largest funding increases in this bill, so it should come as no surprise that they are experiencing the largest cuts.” The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 includes a 17% cut from current levels. The bill continues a cap on EPA’s personnel at the lowest number since 1992, cuts the office of the EPA Administrator by more than 30%, cuts the EPA Congressional Affairs office by 50%, rescinds certain unobligated grant and contract funding, and makes other cuts and reductions to programs within the agency. The bill includes a number of provisions intended to address EPA actions that have created uncertainty in our economy and threaten future economic growth, including: A provision prohibiting the EPA from changing the definition of “navigable waterways” under the Clean Water Act; A provision requiring agencies to make information regarding payments for legal fees to litigants who sue the federal government available to the public; A provision providing exemptions from greenhouse gas reporting for certain agricultural activities; A provision putting an effective hiring freeze on EPA employees, rejecting the President’s proposal to hire additional regulators; A provision preventing EPA from expanding federal stormwater discharge program to existing commercial or residential properties without meeting congressional requirements; A provision maintaining EPA’s current regulations exempting forest practices—including forest roads—from point source permitting requirements under the Clean Water Act. During the Committee markup, additional amendments were adopted that would: Prohibit EPA from regulating the use of the word "green" on lawn product labels; Prohibit EPA from usurping state authority over financial assurance regulations for hardrock mining. Prohibit EPA from imposing new standards for greenhouse gas emissions from cars and trucks in model year 2017. Prohibit EPA from enforcing greenhouse gas New Source Performance Standards which threaten to prevent new coal-fired power plants from being built in the future. Direct EPA to update its cost manual and solicit comments on updating its regional haze modeling tool. Differences in the modeling and cost estimates between Western States and the EPA continue to be a point of frustration. “If we really want to do something about the national deficit, we need to get our economy going again. Unfortunately, the EPA is the wet blanket that is preventing small businesses, farmers, and ranchers from investing in their businesses and creating jobs,” said Simpson. “The provisions in this bill are about jobs. They are about creating certainty in the marketplace and assuring businesses that it is safe to start hiring people again without the threat of the EPA—under the guise of protecting the environment—imposing millions of dollars of penalties through regulations that are unreasonable or simply defy common sense.” The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 passed the House Appropriations Committee on Thursday. It may be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks. During the Committee markup, spoke in favor of an amendment offered by Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY). You can view this on his youtube site or watch the entire mark-up at: http://appropriations.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=300597 For the text of the legislation, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-112hr-fc-ap-fy13-interior.pdf For the Committee Report, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-112-ap-fy13-interior.pdf
06.28.2012	The House Appropriations Committee marked up the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 today. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, put forth a bill that responds to our nation’s fiscal crisis by cutting $1.2 billion from the current fiscal year’s level. The bill shifts the focus away from efforts to grow government and puts it back on proven, core programs. “The Subcommittee has made very difficult choices in preparing this budget proposal, but at the end of the day, what this Committee is attempting to do is reduce spending, create more certainty in the marketplace, and promote an economic environment conducive to job growth,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “The bill reins in funding and overzealous regulation at the EPA and reduces overall spending for the third year in a row. We’ve made some difficult decisions in this bill - decisions that will help reduce our budget deficit while funding many important agencies and programs at sustainable and appropriate levels.” The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 funds agencies under the bill at $28 billion, a $1.7 billion cut from the President’s budget request. The EPA will see an additional $1.4 billion in cuts from the current level, which constitutes a cut of 17%. The bill includes $3.2 billion for wildfire fighting and prevention programs, a $6 million increase over the current year. Among its many provisions: The bill fully funds wildfire suppression at the 10-year average; The bill also funds the FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Account as requested; The bill includes a one-year authorization extension for the mandatory Payment-in-lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program. This program provides funds for rural local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their areas. The authorization for PILT is set to expire on September 30, 2012. Without Congressional action, many rural communities will be left with huge budget shortfalls that could impact public safety, education, and other local government responsibilities; The bill provides $2.2 billion in funding for the Operation of the National Park System, which is $20.6 million below the budget request, but will ensure that every NPS unit will remain operational next year; National Park Construction is funded at the requested level of $131 million and includes no new construction starts; The bill includes $967 million for the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), a $101 million cut below last year’s level. The majority of the reductions are in climate change, ecosystems, and administrative accounts, while programs dealing with energy and minerals, mapping, and water are prioritized; Office of Surface Mining (OSM) is funded at $150 million in the bill, the same as last year’s level. The bill will maintain state grants at $69 million, and discourages the Administration from imposing new fees on the industry. The legislation also prohibits funding from being used to administer or implement the overly burdensome and potentially damaging “stream buffer rule;” The bill also ensures that land management agencies like the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Park Service have adequate funding for achieving land management goals, including ensuring that our national parks remain operational and fully staffed. The bill also shifts funding away from unproven programs and government growth and focuses it on agencies’ core missions and programs that have demonstrated value to taxpayers. The legislation also includes provisions to rein in various problematic, costly, and potentially job-killing regulatory actions by the Administration, including provisions related to the “stream buffer rule,” changes to the definition of “navigable waters” under the Clean Air Act, and “silviculture” regulations. During the Full Committee's consideration of the bill, Simpson offered an amendment which removed language related to the National Forest Service's management of conflicts between bighorn sheep and domestic sheep. Simpson said he instead plans to convene meetings of the interested parties and work toward a less controversial and more collaborative solution that does not pose a threat to bighorn sheep or put ranching families out of business. “I got involved in this issue because I care deeply for our ranchers and for the tribes and sportsmen who work so hard on bighorn sheep conservation. I got involved to find a reasonable solution and tried to work with ranchers, hunters, and land management agencies to solve this problem. Fighting over this problem serves no purpose and does not benefit hunting or ranching. As a result, I am pulling this provision. However, I am only doing this to have all interested parties come to the table and work with me on a solution. Too often, one side or the other is satisfied with the status quo. In this case it is not acceptable—and losing part of our heritage, whether it be bighorn sheep in Idaho or ranchers in Idaho—is not an option. I intend to hold a round table soon to discuss this problem and potential solutions,” said Simpson. The Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2013 passed committee and it may be considered on the House floor in the coming weeks. To view Congressman Mike Simpson’s opening statement for the hearing visit his web site.
06.21.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 4480, the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act by a vote of 248-163. It aims to create long-term domestic energy solutions for the United States. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the measure. H.R. 4480, the Strategic Energy Production Act of 2012, would require the Secretary of Energy to develop a plan to increase the percentage of federal lands leased for oil and gas production. It also includes language from seven different energy bills, including provisions to streamline the permitting process, improve the auction process for onshore leases, and halt the implementation of burdensome EPA rules until a report is submitted to Congress that describes the costs and consequences of the rules. “The impact of outrageously high and unstable gas prices is taking a toll on Idaho families and on our economy. Not only do Idahoans feel the pain at the pump when they fill up, but as the cost of gas increases so does the cost of food and other goods. We need a comprehensive energy policy that will move us toward energy independence and stabilize gas prices,” said Simpson. “In addition, record high gas prices have placed a huge burden on our state’s agricultural and trucking industries. These problems have grown out of decades of poor energy policy, and this bill takes a big step toward energy policies that work for Americans, not against them.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.20.2012	The House Interior and the Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which is chaired by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, today marked up its appropriations act for fiscal year 2013. The Act provides a responsible level of funding for the Department of the Interior, the EPA, and related agencies, including the U.S. Forest Service, by saving $1.2 billion from the current fiscal year’s level and focusing on proven, core programs. “The Interior and Environment bill addresses the fundamental challenges facing the agencies within its jurisdiction while doing so within a fiscally-responsible level of funding,” said Subcommittee Chairman Mike Simpson. “The bill reins in funding and out-of-control regulation at the EPA and reduces overall spending for the third year in a row. We've made some difficult decisions in this bill - decisions that will help reduce our budget deficit while funding many important agencies and programs at sustainable and appropriate levels.” The FY13 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act funds agencies under the bill at $28 billion, a $1.7 billion cut from the President’s budget request. The EPA will see an additional $1.4 billion in cuts from the current level, which constitutes a cut of 17%. “There are those who will no doubt try to portray Republicans as not supporting clean water, clean air, and a clean environment, but such assertions are simply untrue,” said Simpson. “The reality is that the EPA has received unprecedented and unsustainable increases in recent years. In an environment of historic budget deficits and reduced spending, it should come as no surprise that the agency that saw the greatest increases over the last few years will inevitably see the greatest cuts.” The bill also shifts funding away from unproven programs and government growth and focuses it on agencies’ core missions and programs that have demonstrated value to taxpayers, including National Park Service operations and resource management. The bill cuts funding for expensive and uncoordinated climate change programs by 29% but enables the government to meet its trust responsibilities to Native American communities. The bill includes $3.2 billion for wildfire fighting and prevention programs, a $6 million increase over the current year, including full funding of the 10-year average wildland fire suppression costs for both the Department of Interior and the U.S. Forest Service. The bill also includes a one-year authorization for mandatory funding of the Payments-in-lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) program. The bill also contains a number of provisions intended to provide the regulatory certainty needed for economic growth, including: A provision prohibiting the EPA from requiring permits for stormwater runoff from forest roads through FY2013; A provision prohibiting the EPA from changing the definition of “navigable waterways” under the Clean Water Act; Making permanent a provision enabling the BLM and Forest Service to renew expired grazing permits while focusing environmental review on the most environmentally sensitive areas; A provision allowing the trailing of livestock to grazing allotments on public lands without unnecessary environmental review; A provision allowing the 20 year grazing permits for the Forest Service and BLM; A provision requiring agencies to make information regarding payments for legal fees to litigants who sue the federal government available to the public; A provision putting an effective hiring freeze on EPA employees, rejecting the President’s proposal to hire additional regulators.
06.19.2012	The House Appropriations Committee today passed the fiscal year 2013 Agriculture Appropriations bill. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a member of the committee and offered an amendment to allow states to include fresh potatoes in the Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program, administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Simpson’s amendment passed by voice vote. “Fresh potatoes have been excluded from the WIC program despite their widely known nutritional value,” said Simpson. “This important amendment corrects the unfair exclusion on fresh potatoes and allows participants to make smart wholesome food choices for their young families.” Potatoes are currently excluded from the WIC program despite being nutrient dense, affordable, low in calories, and free of fat, cholesterol, and sodium. A medium-sized potato packs more potassium than a banana and is a good source of dietary fiber—both of which are “nutrients of concern,” meaning those nutrients most lacking in Americans’ diets, according to USDA’s 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The bill was approved by the full committee on a voice vote and now awaits consideration by the full House. For the text of the bill please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/bills-112hr-fc-ap-fy13-agriculture.pdf For the bill report, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hrpt-112-ap-fy13-agriculture.pdf
06.07.2012	Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of H.R. 436, the Health Care Cost Reduction Act, which passed in the House of Representatives 270-146. Simpson is a cosponsor of the bill, which repeals a new 2.3% tax on medical devices such as coronary stents, hip implants, and parts for dialysis machines. The tax was included as a “pay-for” to cover the costs of President Obama’s Health Care Bill. “Idahoans have made their voices loud and clear that jobs and the economy are the most important issue to them,” said Simpson. “A lot of people in Washington say a lot of things about jobs, but talk is cheap. Congress must to act to allow for job growth and protect those who do have employment, and this tax on medical devices is a job killer. We need to repeal it.” The medical device industry employs more than 400,000 people across the country, and a vast majority, 80%, of medical device companies are small businesses with less than 50 employees. There are estimates that this tax could lead to the loss of tens of thousands of jobs when it comes into effect in 2013. “The reason this tax really hurts these businesses is because it taxes sales, not profits,” added Simpson. “If a company had $1 million worth of sales, giving them a profit of $100,000 for the year, the tax would be $23,000. That is almost one-quarter of a company’s profits. That is a serious blow for any size business.” If a company cannot absorb the new tax, they would be forced to move jobs overseas or increase the cost of their product. “The reality is this tax will drive jobs and innovation away. As a former dentist I know it would increase the costs for healthcare consumers in the form of higher device and drug prices and higher insurance premiums.” The cost of H.R. 436 is fully offset and the Congressional Budget Office estimates it would decrease the deficit by $6.7 billion over ten years. It now moves to the Senate for consideration.
06.06.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the work of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development in crafting a bill that reverses Obama Administration cuts to nuclear energy programs and continues progress toward the development of new nuclear technologies, including those under development at Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson is a senior member of the Subcommittee, serving as one of its members for over nine years. “I am very pleased that the Subcommittee and the House of Representatives have once again demonstrated their support for the development of nuclear energy and provided the resources necessary to continue our nation’s progress on new and promising nuclear technologies,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho National Laboratory plays a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. The House had to make some very difficult choices about where to focus limited taxpayer resources, and I am very grateful for the confidence my colleagues have shown for nuclear energy in this bill.” The fiscal year 2013 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes $765 million for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy, level funding with FY2012 and $89.9 million above the Obama Administration’s FY2013 request when adjusted for INL’s Safeguards and Security funding. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $765 million allocation include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory, received $162 million which is $10 million above the President’s request; The Next Generation Nuclear Plant program, a high-temperature gas-cooled reactor designed to allow nuclear power to provide process heat for industrial applications, received $50 million which is $30 million above the President’s request; The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program, including the Advanced Test Reactor National Scientific User Facility at the INL, received $75 million which is $9.7 million above the President’s request; Reactor Concepts Research, Development and Demonstration received $126 million which is $53 million above the President’s request. This category includes $28.7 million for Small Modular Reactor Advanced Concepts Research and Development and $25 million for the Light Water Reactor Sustainability Program, which promotes the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors; Integrated University Programs received $5 million. In addition, the bill contains $93.35 million for Idaho National Laboratory’s Safeguards and Security function which was moved out of the Office of Nuclear Energy account and into the Other Defense Activities account. Beyond funding for the Office of Nuclear Energy, the bill includes $399.6 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $399.6 million is level with the President’s request and $14.9 million above the FY2012 funding level of $384.7 million. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $32.1 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. This level of funding represents a reduction of $965 million below the President’s request. “I am pleased this bill lays out a clear, consistent and logical approach to improving our nation’s energy independence by understanding the role all energy technologies play in our energy mix and by appreciating the role nuclear energy plays in particular,” said Simpson. “This funding restores cuts to important reactor programs and ensures INL remains at the forefront of nuclear energy research and development both nationally and internationally.” The bill was approved today by the House of Representatives with a final vote of 255-165 and now awaits negotiations with the Senate once its bill is finalized.
06.01.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, praised the House passage of the H.R. 5854, the Fiscal Year 2013 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. H.R. 5854 funds the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Veterans Health Administration supporting a variety of veterans’ programs, including medical care and treatment, compensation, pensions, and training and education. Funding provided by this bill also meets critical needs such as suicide-prevention services, Arlington National Cemetery expansion, and homeless veterans outreach. “Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedoms and we must work to ensure that they receive the benefits they were promised,” said Simpson. “It is our responsibility to provide them with the care and services they earned and justly deserve.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill also provides essential funding for military construction and military medical facilities such as the new hospital in Landstuhl, Germany, the destination for our wounded troops evacuated from Afghanistan. H.R. 5854 overwhelmingly passed the House late last night by a vote of 407-12. It now awaits consideration in the Senate.
05.10.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act of 2012. It passed in the House of Representatives 218 to 199. The House Budget Committee, of which Simpson is a member, considered and passed this legislation on Monday and sent it to the floor for a vote. “It is important to remember that the sequester is not intended to be the solution to our debt problem, rather, it is the penalty if Congress fails to act,” said Simpson. “This legislation represents the House of Representatives’ priorities in cutting spending and reforming some of our most unsuccessful and unpopular mandatory programs, which make up two-thirds of the federal budget.” The legislation is composed of the policy suggestions from six committees about where the size of government can be reduced, including cuts and reform to mandatory programs that are on auto-pilot. The bill: Closes loopholes and reduces waste, fraud and abuse in the food stamp program, ensuring the program continues to serve those most in need of assistance. Repeals costly and duplicative provisions in the health care law, reforms Medicaid, and institutes tort reform. Reforms and fixes portions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act and ends unspent and unneeded remaining TARP funds. The bill uses these savings and others to replace the planned sequester that is scheduled to come into effect next year. “We have yet to see a proposal from the Senate or from President Obama on what they would like to do to avoid a painful sequester next January,” added Simpson. “I hope Senator Reid and President Obama will put forth their proposals so that both sides can immediately begin debating and agree to a plan to start dealing with the massive $15.6 trillion national debt facing us.” The bill now moves to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
04.26.2012	Today the House of Representatives passed legislation authored by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson to address water issues in existing Idaho wilderness areas. H.R. 2050, the Idaho Wilderness Water Resources Protection Act, authorizes and permits historical water diversions in the Frank Church-River of No Return Wilderness Area and the Selway-Bitterroot Wilderness area that existed before the wilderness designation. “Like a lot of good legislation, H.R. 2050 arose from conversations with an Idahoan who needed help with an issue that was out of his control,” said Simpson. “The Acts that created the wilderness areas in Idaho overlooked these water diversions, which are primarily used to support irrigation and minor hydropower generation, leaving private landowners without the ability to maintain or fix them. I’m pleased that H.R. 2050 not only addresses this one specific diversion, but it provides the tools needed to authorize and repair all of these diversions in the future.” H.R. 2050 would authorize the Forest Service to issue special use permits for all qualifying historic water systems in the wilderness areas. Such authority will ensure that existing water diversions can be properly maintained and repaired when necessary and preserve beneficial use for private property owners who hold water rights under state law. “At some point in the future, all 25 of these existing diversions will need maintenance or repair work done to ensure their integrity,” said Simpson. “H.R. 2050 is intended as a simple, reasonable solution to a problem that I think we can all agree should be solved as quickly as possible.” To view Congressman Simpson’s floor speech supporting the bill visit his YouTube website. H.R. 2050 passed the House. It is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate.
04.19.2012	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012, which allows businesses with fewer than 500 employees to reduce their profit subject to taxation by 20% in the 2012 tax year. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the measure, which passed with a final vote of 235-173. Small businesses currently face up to an astounding 35% federal tax. Additionally, the individual tax rates that apply to small pass-through businesses are scheduled to increase significantly in 2013 under President Obama’s budget. This legislation lifts the burdensome federal government thumb off small businesses, which spend three times more per employee on tax compliance than larger businesses. “I support a permanent overhaul of the tax code to promote economic growth while improving our ability to reduce the deficit,” Simpson said. “This bill immediately addresses the dire situation our nation’s small businesses face and reduces the burden they must overcome in their efforts to invest in our economy and create jobs.” For over 17 years, small businesses have generated 65% of the new jobs created in our country. The U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy reports that small businesses represent 99.9% of the 27.5 million businesses in America and employ about half of all private sector employees. The Small Business Tax Cut Act will provide immediate relief by allowing small business to deduct 20% of their income from taxes irrespective of how they are organized for up to 50% of their W-2 wages. To learn more about the Small Business Tax Cut and how it can help Idaho, visit http://www.majorityleader.gov/SmallBiz/DOCS/ID.pdf.
04.17.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported legislation protecting Americans’ ability to hunt, fish, and shoot on public lands. H.R. 4089, the Sportsmen’s Heritage Act of 2012, would ensure that public land managers facilitate access for fishing, sport hunting, and recreational shooting on federal land managed by the BLM and Forest Service. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, has cosponsored a number of components of the bill. “Access to hunting, fishing, and other outdoor recreational activities is one of the reasons Idahoans love where they live,” said Simpson. “Hunters and anglers have a long heritage of enjoying these activities on public lands, and this bill ensures that they continue to have access to traditional recreational activities, even as land management plans change.” In addition to facilitating access on federal lands for fishing, hunting, and shooting, H.R. 4089 would require the BLM to open national monument land under its jurisdiction for recreational shooting and would prevent EPA from banning the use of lead in ammunition and fishing tackle. The bill would also allow American hunters to bring into the United States polar bear trophies taken in Canada prior to the polar bear being listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. H.R. 4089 passed the House by a vote of 273-146.
03.28.2012	“This week the Supreme Court is considering the constitutionality of President Obama’s health care bill, and the decision will have consequences far beyond just the future direction of our health care system. If the individual mandate is struck down, it would be a major blow to the power of the federal government to use the Commerce Clause or the Necessary and Proper Clause to require Americans to act in certain ways. If it is upheld, it would be a significant victory for those who believe the federal government can do virtually anything apart from what is specifically constitutionally barred. “While the Supreme Court deliberations grab the headlines, something else happened this month that will have major implications on health care and its impact on Americans and the ever-growing national debt. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an updated analysis of the cost of the health care law using the most current budget data, and the findings are disheartening. When the bill was signed into law in 2010, it was estimated that an increased burden on Medicaid and taxpayer-funded health insurance subsidies would cost taxpayers $938 billion over ten years. The new updated estimate this month finds the real cost to be nearly $1.8 trillion between now and 2022. This is a punch to the gut for Members of Congress working to reduce the debt. In short, it just got almost $1 trillion more difficult to tackle the debt, and the costs of the health care bill are only expected to rise. “To put $1 trillion in perspective, let’s look at a widely supported government agency, NASA. NASA receives roughly $18 billion dollars of funding every year. To save a trillion dollars you would have to completely defund NASA… 56 times over. “With this example, you can see why it is so hard to cut $1 trillion out of the discretionary budget. Given that most economists agree we need to find $4 to $6 trillion to really stabilize the debt and put us on a path to eventually erase it completely, even eliminating NASA 56 times doesn’t make a dent. “The reality is eliminating the debt can’t be done immediately, and it can’t be done with only spending cuts. While cuts are an important part of it, we need to institute real, long term, structural reform of our mandatory spending programs that are on auto-pilot and growing by the day. The system is unsustainable – a couple turning 65 today probably paid over $109,000 into Medicare in their lives but will receive on average over $343,000 in benefits. Meanwhile, starting this year, 10,000 Americans will enroll in Medicare every day for the next 20 years. Our children and grandchildren have little hope of seeing any benefits themselves under our current system. “Along with real reform of Medicare, Congress must find the courage to reform, not just patch, our outdated tax code. We need to simplify the code and streamline regulations while closing loop-holes, creating the economic growth necessary to reduce the deficit. With these reforms in place we can actually reduce tax rates for ALL individuals and businesses, and still have funds left over to reduce the debt. It is crucial that any savings from tax reform not be used to simply implement more spending. The tax code should be a simple system intended to raise the necessary revenue for appropriate government functions, not a complex system through which the government directs social behavior and forces certain outcomes. “This week Congress is considering these issues and will vote on the House Republican Budget offered by Chairman Paul Ryan. It is a bold and tough reform proposal that deals with the issues of our auto-pilot programs head on. The Medicare reforms are tough but fair and offer anyone the option of keeping their current benefits if they so choose. Despite demagoguery from Democrats and the White House, the Ryan Plan has proved to be durable and is gaining support. While it won’t receive bipartisan backing this year, it signifies the intention of Republicans to fix our debt problem. I am proud of my colleagues for offering this plan despite “political experts” claims that it will hurt the party in an election year. “The Simpson-Bowles approach is another proposal that I strongly support because it puts everything on the table, leaving no “sacred cows” untouched. And while the news that Obama’s health care bill will cost taxpayers an extra $1 trillion is discouraging, it should make Congress bolder in the fight to reduce the size of government, fix our outdated tax code, and reform our bloated mandatory programs. The public is way ahead of Congress on this, and Congress must catch up and begin making the same tough decisions and sacrifices that American families are making every day.”
03.28.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored H.R. 4157, the Preserving America’s Family Farms Act. This legislation addresses the U.S. Department of Labor’s (DOL) proposed regulations for labor practices for youth working in agricultural operations. The proposed rule would limit the ability of farmers and ranchers to hire youth to work in agriculture. “I grew up moving pipe and breaking ground for new crops,” said Simpson. “It is a time in my life that I consider very significant, and working on farms taught me the value of hard work and the importance of success and determination. I want to make sure today’s youth have the same opportunities that I had growing up, part of which is being able to work, save money, and go to college. Jobs in agriculture provide these opportunities and need to be preserved.” The proposed rule would ban hiring youth younger than sixteen to do certain types of farm work and ban so-called “hazardous” work, including operating tractors or working with livestock. Furthermore, the “parental exemption” portion of the rule would prohibit youth from doing various farm activities on farms not solely owned by their parents—including farms owned by extended family or other farms on which the youth do not reside. With this rule, DOL has attempted to narrow the definition of the family farm so that chores could be considered illegal unless the farm on which the youth works is wholly owned by his or her parents. “This proposal is a misguided idea that threatens the ability of America’s youth to contribute to work on their family’s farm and other agricultural operations,” said Simpson. “This proposed rule would also restrict families in their efforts to pass on the generational knowledge and the hands-on learning that is so critical to the survival of the agricultural industry.” The Preserving America’s Family Farms Act would prohibit the DOL from finalizing the proposed regulations under the Fair Labor Standards Act that relate to on-farm youth labor. H.R. 4157 is currently in the House Agriculture Committee.
03.22.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted for legislation to improve our nation’s healthcare delivery system and bring down the costs of healthcare. H.R. 5, the Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act of 2011, would implement needed medical liability reforms and repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB), which was a part of President Obama’s 2010 healthcare bill. The legislation passed the House today by a vote of 223-181. “Abuse of existing medical malpractice laws is one of the reasons healthcare in the United States is prohibitively expensive for many individuals,” said Simpson. “Members on both sides of the aisle recognize that medical liability reform would bring down healthcare costs for taxpayers and consumers, as well as improve access to care, and yet Democrats failed to even touch this issue in the partisan Affordable Care Act. I am pleased that H.R. 5 directly addresses the problems in our healthcare system by placing caps on non-economic damages and limiting attorney’s fees. It is estimated to save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by reducing unnecessary defensive medicine practices.” In addition to liability reform provisions, H.R. 5 eliminates the IPAB, which was buried in the Affordable Care Act and is made up of a board of unelected bureaucrats tasked with deciding payment rates for Medicare. Included in the ACA is authority for IPAB to operate without public meetings or hearings, consider public input on proposals, or make its deliberations open to the public. “This is a provision of the new healthcare law that I have long been concerned about,” said Simpson. “We all know that without effective reform, Medicare as we know it will not be there for our children and grandchildren. Any changes to Medicare must happen in public, with broad input, and with the best interests of the American people in mind. Unfortunately, the IPAB is authorized to act in the completely opposite manner—with the power to impact America’s Medicare benefits behind closed doors and with little public or congressional oversight.” Congressman Simpson has long been a supporter of meaningful, effective healthcare reform and is a cosponsor of H.R. 5.
03.21.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned the National Park Service about its budget request for FY2013. At the hearing of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which Simpson chairs, he asked NPS Director Jon Jarvis about the Park Service’s ability to address the maintenance backlog across the national park system, restoration efforts on the National Mall, and quagga mussels infestations on Park Service property, including Lake Mead. Maintenance backlog and budget priorities: “At the outset, I want to make an observation,” began Simpson. “Your budget request makes a sizeable reduction from last year in construction funding, which adds to the maintenance backlog—now in excess of $11 billion—that the Park Service is facing. The budget request also reduces funding for park operations, which may cause some park units to reduce visitor services and operating hours. “At the same time, the budget request for federal land acquisition is increased by 4% and the request for LWCF stateside grant funding is increased by 34%. It seems to me that we ought to be addressing long-term maintenance and repair needs, as well as meeting the needs of the visiting public, before making additional land acquisitions that will only add to the historic funding backlog.” Restoration of the National Mall Chairman Simpson also asked about ongoing efforts to restore the National Mall, including repairs to the Washington Monument, which was damaged during the earthquake last summer. “I’ve said this before, but we are loving our National Mall to death. When Idahoans come out to Washington, DC, they are disappointed that the National Mall doesn’t look like the lush green place they’ve seen in pictures. What are we doing about that?” Director Jarvis outlined current restoration efforts, including restoration of the Reflecting Pool near the Lincoln Memorial, implementation of an irrigation system on the Mall’s grass panels, and efforts to mitigate the impact of large events on the Mall. Recently a private donor matched the $7.5 million appropriated in FY12 to address damage to the Washington Monument and its elevator, allowing repairs to move ahead so that the monument can reopen. Aquatic Invasive Species As he has done in previous hearings, Simpson raised the issue of aquatic invasive species, honing in on the Park Service’s efforts to prevent the quagga mussel infestation at Lake Mead from spreading to Idaho and other areas. “I want to make sure that the National Park Service recognizes the magnitude of this problem and is partnering with states and other federal agencies to prevent the spread of invasive species—not just focusing only on keeping quagga and zebra mussels out of the areas it manages.” Today’s hearing was the tenth of 16 budget oversight hearings Simpson has scheduled for the subcommittee this spring.
03.21.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, today supported the Fiscal Year 2013 Budget Resolution offered by Chairman Paul Ryan, which passed in the Committee 19–18. The Budget Resolution must be passed every year by the House and the Senate to set top-level spending limits that Congress then adheres to when crafting its appropriations bills that year. While the House budget sets responsible spending limits and suggests pathways for finding significant savings in mandatory spending programs, the Senate has, for the third year in a row, failed to pass a budget or even offer one. On Tuesday Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad filed to deem automatic spending levels without requiring a vote on them. “I was glad to support this budget proposal and pleased it passed out of the Committee,” said Simpson. “I commend Chairman Ryan for offering this proposal, which, though it is unlikely to receive any counter proposal from Congressional Democrats beyond demagoguery, includes many bold and tough reforms.” The Republican budget offers a real plan to reduce the deficit and cut spending, and puts the country on a fiscally sustainable path. It differs greatly from the budget proposed by President Obama last month. Some of the notable provisions in the Republican budget include: Cuts spending by $5 trillion relative to the President's budget, which features a net $1.5 trillion increase in federal spending. Reforms our 19th century tax code to create a fairer, flatter tax rate and ends special interest loopholes while lowering tax rates for all Americans. President Obama's budget imposes a $2 trillion dollar tax increase. Protects seniors and saves the strained Medicare program by reforming it to control costs by offering choice and competition while also making no changes to the benefits of current seniors and those 55 years or older. It also ensures that traditional Medicare remains an option for anyone who wants it. President Obama offered no substantive proposal to deal with Medicare. Reduces the debt to sustainable levels over the next decade and pays off the debt over time. The President’s budget adds $11 trillion to the debt over the next decade with no plan to pay it off in the future. Simpson has been a strong supporter of deficit reform proposals, like the Simpson-Bowles proposal, that include tax reform, entitlement reform, and significant spending reductions. While the Republican budget is unlikely to receive bipartisan support, it signifies the intention of House Republicans to fix our spending problems and bring the debt back under control. “This budget takes our debt problem seriously, which is, unfortunately, more than we have seen from the White House or the U.S. Senate,” added Simpson. “House Republicans have acted, despite so-called political experts numerous claims that it will hurt us in an election year. We have offered a budget that confronts the problems head on.” The Budget Resolution now moves to the House floor for consideration next week.
03.14.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement today regarding the decision by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to affirm the district court’s decision to uphold legislation barring judicial review of the delisting of wolves in Idaho and Montana. “I’m pleased to see the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals uphold my wolf delisting language. Continued efforts to put wolves back on the endangered species list simply don’t hold up in light of the robust wolf populations in Idaho and the effective state management plans in place in Idaho and Montana. This case has made it clear that those who persist in trying to manage wildlife through the courts, in spite of all scientific evidence that this species has recovered, no longer have a defensible position. Now that this case is settled, the state can continue to move forward in implementing a long-term solution to wolf management that serves the best interests of Idahoans and those whose true goal is a sustainable wolf population in the Rocky Mountain west.” Congressman Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, included language in the FY2011 Continuing Resolution directing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue its decision to delist wolves in Idaho and Montana. Simpson’s language prevented the decision from being overturned by the courts, as it was in 2010.
03.07.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson took issue with proposals to cut BLM range management funding in the President's FY13 budget request during a hearing on the BLM's budget proposal in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee yesterday. Simpson chairs the subcommittee, which oversees BLM’s budget. In addition to expressing his concern about budget cuts to the grazing program, he focused on the BLM's sage grouse conservation initiative. The BLM has struggled under a huge grazing permit backlog over the past decade. In order to permanently reduce this backlog and provide the BLM with the tools it needs to use its resources for effective land management, the FY 2012 BLM budget included a significant increase for rangeland management. In spite of BLM's efforts to address the grazing permit backlog within the next few years, the FY 2013 request cuts that budget by $15 million. "I'm very disappointed with the proposed decrease in range management. Back in 2009, we talked about the importance of permanently reducing the backlog of grazing permits, which has been a problem at the BLM for years. Now the BLM has gone from completing 84% of the grazing permits for renewal in 2009 to only planning to complete 33% in fiscal year 2013, " said Simpson. "This is simply irresponsible. While I understand the workload of permit renewals fluctuates from year to year, this level of completion is inexcusable, particularly given this subcommittee's focus on the issue. "Further," he continued, "the budget proposes to add a new grazing fee, which would increase what ranchers pay now by 74%--violating the current mandate that says the fee can't be raised by more than 25% a year. There is a good reason for this mandate. Livestock producers, just like other small businesses, need certainty--they need to know their grazing permits will be renewed in a timely fashion and that fees won't dramatically increase from year to year. Despite the fact that range management is a large part of BLM's responsibilities, and that state and local offices in Idaho and other areas have stepped up to address these challenges in spite of major hurdles thrown their way, it doesn't seem to be a priority for this budget." Chairman Simpson also expressed his concern about the possibility of sage grouse being listed as an endangered species. He pressed Director Abbey about the BLM's sage grouse conservation strategy and whether it will be effective in preventing a listing. Simpson commended BLM for taking a proactive approach on the conservation of the sage grouse and reflecting this priority in the proposed budget. "That said, I want to make sure this investment will actually improve sage grouse habitat and prevent the species from being listed in 2015, which would be devastating across the West," he said. "Now more than ever we need to see a return on this investment, not just waste this funding on planning exercises that don't help us reach our goal. Some of the greatest threats to the sage grouse are invasive weeds and wildfire. How will this investment be used to control cheat grass, for example, and prevent fires that destroy sage grouse habitat? Preventing this listing is a top priority for me, and it will require close partnership between federal agencies, states, and local land users. We have to get this one right." Director Abbey committed to doing everything possible to prevent a sage grouse listing, pointing to work already being done with states and stakeholders to identify and implement best management practices. He noted that the greatest threat to sage grouse is fire and indicated that the bureau is working to prevent and suppress wildfires in core habitat areas. As Chairman of the subcommittee, Simpson has scheduled 16 oversight hearings to review the president's budget proposal for agencies under the subcommittee's jurisdiction.
03.01.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today questioned Fish and Wildlife Service Director Dan Ashe regarding invasive species and wolves. The Director testified to the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which Simpson chairs, regarding the agency’s FY13 budget request. “In Idaho it is difficult to think of the Fish and Wildlife Service without thinking first and foremost of threatened and endangered species,” Simpson said at the beginning of the hearing. “Whether it’s to save snails or slickspot peppergrass, the last thing Idahoans want is the federal government telling them what they can’t do on their own land or otherwise disrupting a sustainable way of life they’ve known for generations. There has got to be a better way to properly balance recovery with people’s livelihoods.” Simpson questioned the agency regarding funding for wolf management in Idaho and Montana. Last year Simpson included language in the FY11 continuing resolution that directed the Service to reissue an earlier decision to remove wolves in those states from the endangered species list. Simpson aims to ensure that the states of Idaho and Montana have adequate funding to defray the costs of ESA requirements to monitor wolf populations for five years post-delisting. Chairman Simpson also raised the issue of quagga and zebra mussels, which pose a serious threat to water infrastructure in Idaho. In FY12, the subcommittee allocated $1 million in the Fish and Wildlife Service budget for mandatory inspections and decontaminations at infested federally-managed water bodies, which the Director indicated would be focused on preventing boats at infested Lake Mead from spreading into Idaho and other western states. “I’m also concerned that when I meet with stakeholders who do invasive species work on the ground, they complain that very little of the money that is appropriated for these purposes actually gets on the ground,” said Simpson. “I recognize that this is not necessarily a Fish and Wildlife Service issue; I’m talking about invasive species funding across the board, much of which is in the Department of Interior or USDA. This subcommittee intends to focus on invasive species in general and how we are spending that money, because ultimately we want the money on the ground, addressing the problem.”
02.29.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today critiqued Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Lisa Jackson on the EPA's budget proposal for the coming fiscal year. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environmental Appropriations Subcommittee that has oversight over the EPA's budget, targeted the EPA’s regulatory agenda, taking issue with the way the agency analyses costs and benefits of proposed regulations and the impact that they have on the economy. Simpson started the hearing by reminding the subcommittee about the drastic change in the agency's budget since he became chairman of the subcommittee. “When we met last year in this room to discuss your 2012 proposal, I noted that we were at a critical juncture as we had not yet finished our work on the fiscal year 2011 budget,” said Simpson. “Since then the Appropriations Committee has had a productive year and passed spending bills for both fiscal year 2011 and 2012. In doing so we reduced discretionary spending in the Interior and Environment bill by over $3 billion, of which $1.85 billion came from the EPA budget. This amounts to an 18 percent cut to EPA's budget in one calendar year." Simpson expressed long-standing concern about the guidance EPA issued last year regarding which waters are subject to EPA regulation under the Clean Water Act, an issue that has troubled Idaho’s farmers and water users for years. “I’m concerned about this guidance because many of the groups advocating for it want EPA to control all the waters of the United States. Many of us in the west think that the current ‘navigable waters’ definition is the right definition,” said Simpson.“It is not a matter of whether or not we should protect waters from degradation but of who is protecting them. I think that is a responsibility of the states.” Simpson also expressed his continued concern that EPA is imposing an unnecessary regulatory agenda on the American people that is hurting the economy and surpassing the agency's authority. Referring to a recent cover story in The Economist entitled, "Overregulated America,” he said, “Currently EPA has 26 regulations under review at OMB, including the Clean Water Act guidance that defines navigable waters. The one thing I came away from this article with is that I am concerned that EPA’s cost-benefit analysis is not public or transparent. The agency needs to keep this subcommittee informed about its regulatory agenda as we put the budget together.”
02.28.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today questioned Department of Energy Secretary Steven Chu about the energy future of our country. Chu testified before the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee during a hearing on the president’s FY13 budget proposal for DOE. Simpson, who is a senior member of the subcommittee, concentrated his questions on the recommendations of the President’s Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear Future and funding for nuclear power technology. The Administration decided to abandon the 30 year, $11 billion effort to create a final repository for spent nuclear fuel and created the Blue Ribbon Commission to determine a path forward in how to deal with the nations spent nuclear fuel. The Commission submitted the final report in January. Simpson asked Secretary Chu whether DOE has embraced the Blue Ribbon Commission’s recommendations and whether the department intends to submit legislation to Congress for review or implement changes through administrative fiat, as the Administration did by abandoning Yucca Mountain. Chu responded that a number of the recommendations will require congressional action. “Don’t let this turn into a Simpson-Bowles proposal, where we go out and make recommendations and then no one pushes it forward,” warned Simpson. “If you’re going to [act on the recommendations], then push them forward and come and work with Congress to get it done.” Simpson also expressed concern about proposals in the budget to impose huge increases for renewable energies while the administration has requested decreases in funding for advanced reactor technology like Small Module Reactors that have the potential to be safer and easier to finance compared to existing reactors. “Fifty percent of our electricity is produced by coal, 20% by nuclear power. Yet when I look at your budget, I look at huge increases in renewable energy funding, which makes up only a small portion of our energy portfolio, and cuts in the other area that’s producing most the electricity, and frankly I’m disappointed,” said Simpson. “Seems to me like there is an agenda of trying to push green technology, when I think nuclear energy is green technology…If you’re really going to address global climate change, you had better adopt nuclear energy, and it doesn’t seem like we’re doing that in this budget. This is the first time I’ve seen a retrenchment in this administration in advancing nuclear energy. The talk is all there, but the budget doesn’t reflect that.” The Subcommittee will be hearing from multiple offices within the Department of Energy in the coming weeks.
02.16.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today held his first subcommittee hearing of the year, as Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar testified before the subcommittee regarding the Department of Interior’s FY2013 budget request. During the hearing, Simpson questioned Salazar on a wide variety of issues, including PILT, the Department’s national sage-grouse conservation strategy, oil and gas exploration and permitting, and wildland fire. PILT: Because federal lands may not generally be taxed by state or local governments, the Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program was created to compensate local governments for the loss of income due to the presence of federal land in their state or county. In 2008, PILT was authorized as a mandatory program and fully funded for five years, shifting it out of the Interior budget through September 30, 2012. The Department proposes to extend the current funding for an additional year, legislation that needs to be taken up by the appropriate authorizing committee, but does not provide a clear offset. “It’s important to note that, while that authorization expires at the end of this fiscal year, the federal government’s obligation to fund PILT does not,” said Simpson. “If Congress is unable to reauthorize mandatory spending for PILT in the coming weeks, we are going to have to pay for it out of this budget, and it will require cutting money from the Department’s other priorities.” Sage-Grouse Conservation: Simpson also signaled that he will have more questions for the Department and the Bureau of Land Management regarding the impact that the budget will have on grazing throughout the west. He expressed concern about cuts for grazing programs in the budget proposal and raised the issue of sage-grouse conservation efforts, noting that a decision to list sage-grouse as an endangered species would have huge ramifications across Idaho, devastating land users and undermining BLM’s land management efforts. The Department included $15 million in its budget for a recently-unveiled BLM national sage-grouse strategy to address sage-grouse conservation. Wildland Fire: Simpson also expressed concern about proposals to cut funding for hazardous fuels reduction, as well as a proposal by the Department to re-instate language requiring 90 percent of the funds to be used in the wildland urban interface. “Reducing the threat of catastrophic wildfires is always a top priority for Congress and the Department. Last year, however, the Committee was very concerned about the constraints put on the use of hazardous fuel dollars. These funds help clear brush and prevent forest and rangeland fires…The problem [with the requirement to spend 90 percent of funds in the wildland urban interface] is that much of the land managed by the Department is not in the wildland urban interface,” said Simpson. “The FY12 bill specifically directs the Department to remove this requirement and instead allow the agencies to allocate funds based on the highest priority projects in the highest priority areas, and I was dismayed to hear that the Department and OMB are still pursuing this requirement despite the report language. I hope you will work with me to ensure that we are complying with the FY12 language.” Energy Development: Much of the hearing focused on the Department of Interior’s proposals regarding energy development, including both conventional and renewable energy. Simpson warned that the subcommittee would be holding the Department fully accountable for funding provided in FY11 and FY12 to ensure that permits and plans for oil and gas production can move forward. “We’ve hardly scratched the surface in meeting our full potential in oil and gas exploration and production—both onshore and on the outer continental shelf,” said Simpson. “The [newly created Bureau of Ocean Energy Management and Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement] now have both the funding and the tools you told us they need. With gas prices on the rise again, the public and Congress will have no patience for more delays. It’s time for the bureaus to get to work.” In coming weeks, Chairman Simpson will hold hearings on agency budgets, during which many of these issues will be visited in more detail.
02.15.2012	Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, today questioned Acting White House Budget Director Jeffrey Zients regarding President Obama’s fiscal year 2013 budget blue print, which was released on Monday. President Obama’s budget, which was widely panned as a campaign document rather than a serious reform proposal, adds $1.3 trillion to our $15.4 trillion national deficit in 2012. It marks the fourth consecutive year the President has offered a budget with a deficit at more than $1 trillion. The largest deficit in history preceding President Obama’s term was $459 billion. The budget also made no substantive proposals to deal with Medicare, Medicaid or Social Security, three programs that are expanding rapidly, and are eating up larger and larger chunks of our budget, and need real reform. Simpson opened his questioning by asking Director Zients why the President wasn’t ready to have a straightforward conversation with Americans about our spending and debt problems. “What the American people want to know is how much we are going to add to our current deficit if we were going to pass this blue print this year…? How much would (the yearly deficit) be at the end of the ten year cycle…? What will the total deficit be at the end of the ten year cycle, if we adopt the President’s spending plan?” Director Zients responded, “As to the deficit, I don’t think you want to look at this in nominal dollars. No one thinks a dollar today is worth a dollar tomorrow. I’d rather have the dollar today than tomorrow. So let’s pivot to GDP (gross domestic product) and percentage of GDP.” Simpson interjected, “Nobody cares about that. They care about the dollar amount that you are going to create in deficit spending. Constituents who talk to me don’t say, ‘as a percentage of GDP, what is our debt going to be in ten years?’ They say, “How much are we spending, and how much are we going in debt, and are we becoming Greece? This plan is Greece’s plan.” Later, Director Zients closed with, “I believe in this country and I believe in our workers and I believe in our competitiveness, and the President’s budget supports that,” to which Simpson replied, “I believe in this country too, and so does everyone in here. I wished the budget matched your rhetoric that you put forward.” The entirety of Congressman Simpson’s questions can be seen at http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6dmQ9R9K_V4&feature=channel_video_title.
02.10.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will host a one hour telephone town hall on Wednesday, February 15, at 7:00 p.m. MST. Telephone town halls are virtual community meetings where constituents are able to ask Congressman Simpson questions about issues before Congress and voice concerns they may have. Simpson enjoys meeting with Idaho business owners, teachers, farmers, and workers throughout Idaho. He also realizes that he’s not able to visit every community during a district work period, and telephone town halls provide him the opportunity to connect with Idahoans across the state. “Telephone town halls are a great way to communicate with constituents,” said Simpson. “It gives me a chance to answer questions and learn more about issues that are important to people back at home.” If you would like to participate in the next telephone town hall, scheduled for Wednesday, February 15, at 7:00 MST, please visit Congressman Simpson’s webpage and click on the TELETOWNHALL button in the bottom right or click here to link directly.
02.09.2012	U.S. Representatives Jason Altmire (PA-04), Judy Biggert (IL-13), and Mike Simpson (ID-02), Co-Chairs of the House Nuclear Issues Working Group, today released the following statement on the announcement that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approved the first new nuclear power plant permit in 30 years. The new permit will allow Southern Co. to construct two new nuclear reactors at its existing plant in Georgia. The NRC voted 4 to 1 in favor of the new permit to construct the two AP1000 reactors designed by Westinghouse Electric Company. The government and industry partnership formed by the Nuclear Power 2010 program lead to this outcome. "Nuclear power represents the most reliable, plentiful source of carbon-free energy that we can develop right now to meet America's rapidly rising electricity needs,” the Co-Chairs said. “Today's announcement by the NRC is a long-overdue milestone on our path to energy independence, and we are pleased that American workers and consumers will finally have an opportunity to benefit from the construction and operation of the first new U.S. reactors in over 30 years. With the advancement of new technologies, and cutting-edge research on nuclear recycling, the reactors that are being planned today have the potential to launch America into a new position of global leadership on responsible energy production and high-tech job growth."
02.02.2012	Washington, D.C. – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior member of the House Budget Committee, questioned Federal Reserve Chairman Dr. Ben Bernanke in a hearing today entitled, “The State of the U.S. Economy.” “I’ve been a member of this committee with the chairman for eight years now. For eight years we have had economists and other experts tell us we have a structural deficit problem that is unsustainable and we need to do something about it. So far we have failed to heed the warning,” said Simpson during the hearing. He continued, “We are now at a situation where if we don’t heed the warning there is going to be consequences to pay that nobody is willing to accept. We all know that we have to restrain discretionary spending, we all know that we have to get entitlements under control, and we all know that we need a pro-growth tax policy, instead of a 19th century tax code, one that fits the 21st century. We all know that. We might have some differences of exactly how to do some of these things, but well know the problem exists and we all know that we need to come together… if we don’t all these other things we talk about don’t really matter, do they?” Bernanke responded, “Yes, that is correct. It is striking that when the U.S. debt was downgraded by S&P last summer it was more about what they cited as political concerns and the ability of Congress to work together and make progress.” Simpson went on to ask, “Do you believe in the general assumption that $4-6 trillion in savings is the number that will stabilize our deficit and get us headed in the right direction? Could you paint a picture for us of what you think will happen to this economy if we don’t take the steps necessary to stabilize our debt? And what will happen if we put it off another year or another year after that as we have been kicking that can farther down the road forever?” Bernanke replied, “The idea was achieving ($4-6 trillion) would stabilize the debt to GDP ratio and maybe get some progress there, and I was supportive of “going big” so to speak when we were discussing all these issues last summer… The bad case scenario, which ultimately will happen if we don’t change this trajectory, (will be) analogous to what we have seen in some countries in Europe (where) investors will begin to lose confidence that we can manage our long term fiscal situation and we will see sharp movements in interest rates or loss of confidence in U.S. debt. In which case changes would have to made but in a much more chaotic, rapid, and disruptive way, then by doing a long term thoughtful way.” Simpson has been a supporter of efforts to pass sweeping and comprehensive debt reduction legislation that would constrain discretionary spending, reform mandatory programs and fix the tax code. Watch this video to see the entire exchange; http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NTGFAGvfe58&feature=channel_video_title
02.01.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, joined his Republican colleagues in passing H.R. 1173, which repeals the flawed and now defunct Community Living Assistance Services and Supports Act (CLASS Act). The bill passed 267 to 159. The CLASS program, a new entitlement program for long-term care insurance, was instituted as a part of President Obama’s health care bill, but has since been deemed by the Administration to be an unsustainable program which cannot be implemented. “The CLASS program is the kind of law you get when legislation is not properly vetted, but instead is written behind closed doors in an uncontrolled and hectic process,” said Simpson. “However, some continue to support the program despite the Obama Administration’s admittance that it is unworkable and a leading Senate Democrat calling it a ‘Ponzi scheme.’” The numbers behind CLASS’s flaws are stark. Although it was sold as self-sustaining, some analysts estimate that to just break even it would need premiums to be $3,000 dollars per month, or, if it were more reasonably priced, it would need 230 million Americans (more than the entire workforce) to participate. Neither of those scenarios is likely, but they do illustrate how flawed the program is. That said, many fear that the Obama Administration or future administrations could attempt to make the CLASS program mandatory to make it sustainable. Repealing it now would take away that possibility. “The real disappointment with the CLASS program is that those who need care over the long term deserve better. CLASS was never a solution that would work for them. It was filled with budget gimmicks, and it has only distracted from the real problem that still exists today. Long-term care is incredibly expensive, and a gap in the health care system means these folks often end up on Medicaid – further straining its resources.” Simpson added, “I look forward to Congress moving past the failed CLASS program and developing real solutions to these urgent challenges.” The bill moves to the Senate for consideration.
01.24.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight. “I am frustrated that the president persists in playing politics with the issue of tax reform. Dividing Americans for political gain is not tax reform, and putting Band-Aids on our broken tax code does nothing to fix it. What we really need is for Republicans and Democrats to come together to implement fundamental tax reform to bring about a new tax system that lowers the rate and broadens the base, creating a simpler and fairer tax code. This, in conjunction with significant spending reductions and reform of our entitlement programs that are on auto-pilot spending, would go a long way toward creating the growth necessary to revitalize our economy and bring our deficit under control. “The president talks a lot about job creation, but his policies have done nothing to remove the real roadblocks to true economic recovery. He says he wants to boost American manufacturing, but since his inauguration the Obama administration has proposed over 200 new regulatory actions—many unnecessary--that would each cost our economy over $100 million. Last year the president proposed a budget that did nothing to address the deficit crisis our nation is facing, and Democrats in the Senate haven’t passed a budget in 1000 days. He hasn’t given us hope of anything better this year, further convincing the American people that their government cannot solve problems.”
01.12.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announces the addition of a congressional fellow with his Washington, D.C., staff. Chad Boyer is a nuclear engineer with diverse experience in the electric power industry and is currently serving as a congressional fellow in Simpson’s office. Boyer was the Lead Mechanical Engineer at the Shaw Power Group for the new nuclear power plants located in Jenkinsville, SC. There Boyer led the design effort for the site specific mechanical systems needed to support the operation of two Generation III+ nuclear power plants. Besides having a strong background in nuclear power, Boyer also worked on energy efficiency projects such as industrial facility energy analysis, commercial buildings energy analysis, plug-in hybrid cars and plug-in hybrid school buses. He has a two bachelor degrees in Nuclear Engineering and Physics and a Master of Science in Nuclear Engineering with a thesis on the modeling of non-ideal plasmas in electromagnetic launchers. Boyer is a licensed professional engineer in North Carolina and South Carolina. “Chad’s experience in the nuclear industry is extremely impressive, and I’m looking forward to working with him in the upcoming year to advance the interests of nuclear power and the Idaho National Laboratory,” said Simpson. “I'm not only impressed with Chad's skills and education, but I am grateful that he is willing to spend a year in Washington sharing his expertise and helping advance a prudent national energy strategy that includes a strong nuclear component. I am also thrilled that he'll be focusing directly on both the cleanup and research missions in Eastern Idaho and working to promote the outstanding work being done at the Site." As Simpson’s nuclear energy fellow, Boyer will be handling all nuclear energy research and cleanup issues and working directly with the Idaho National Laboratory, the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project on issues of concern before the United States Congress. Boyer is the designated Congressional Fellow of the American Nuclear Society and will be working in Simpson's office throughout calendar year 2012.
01.10.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his Republican colleagues and cosponsored a resolution disapproving of the president’s recent appointments because of the manner in which they were made. There are currently 71 other cosponsors of this resolution, which was introduced today. “Not only do the president’s sudden appointments made while Congress was not in session break a long standing precedent, but, they fly in the face of the Constitution,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “The Constitution clearly states that, ‘Neither House, during the Session of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more than three days, nor to any other Place than that in which the two Houses shall be sitting,’” Under the Constitution, presidential appointments must be approved by the U.S. Senate. While the president has the power to make appointments while Congress is in recess, these particular appointments were made while the Senate was in pro forma session and when the House had not consented to an adjournment. “I have long been an advocate for and believe in regular order for Congress. I appreciate and respect the rules that our forefathers put forth in order to allow the people to have a voice,” said Simpson. “In that respect, I also believe that the Executive Branch has the same obligation to abide by the rules and procedures lined out by our Founding Fathers in the Constitution. The Constitution sets out a clear process of checks and balances for presidential appointments that ensures that one branch of government does not become too powerful, and I am deeply concerned that the president seems intent on ignoring constitutional precedent.” The resolution addresses the so-called recess appointments of the Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and three members of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). In particular, Senate Republicans have held up the nomination of the Director for CFPB because of concern that the newly created agency is unaccountable to elected officials and not subject to the appropriations process. President Obama only indicated his intent to nominate the three members of the NLRB board on December 15, 2011—two days before the Senate adjourned for the holiday. Thus, the Senate has not had the opportunity to even hold hearings to consider the President’s NLRB appointments.
01.05.2012	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women as official nominees to the United States military academies. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the military academies,” said Simpson. “I am always impressed by the quality and character of our youth in Idaho. Each person is a fine example of what our state has to offer. They are bright, articulate, and ready to serve.” Students were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extra-curricular activities. While a congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance to the Service Academies, many of Idaho’s nominees are selected for an appointment. The following students were nominated to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; or the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York. Nominees are: BOISE Tess Branscombe - Boise, Unites States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy Skyler Means – Boise, United States Naval Academy Nick Ryan – Boise, United States Naval Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy Nicholas Arnold – Boise, United States Air Force Academy Adrianna Lutu – Boise, United States Air Force Academy, United States Merchant Marine Academy Kevin Weber – Boise, United States Military Academy Kristine Westergard – Boise, United States Military Academy Konner Moden – Boise, United States Merchant Marine Academy Andrew Fletcher – Boise, United States Merchant Marine Academy Mt. HOME/FAIRFIELD Caleb McCullough – Mt. Home, United States Air Force Academy Conner McClellan – Mt. Home, Unites States Military Academy Mickenize Boggs – Fairfield, United States Military Academy, Unites States Merchant Marine Academy MAGIC VALLEY David Borden – Rupert, United States Naval Academy Kaylee Kostka – Heyburn, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy Destry Weeks – Rogerson, United States Naval Academy Kevin Wilmot – Jermone, Unites States Air Force Academy POCATELLO/CHUBBUCK/BLACKFOOT Gaylen Edmo – Pocatello, United States Naval Academy Dempsy Rogers – Pocatello, United States Military Academy John Foulger – Chubbuck, United States Air Force Academy Layne Harper – Blackfoot, United States Military Academy IDAHO FALLS Ellen Bradford – Idaho Falls, United States Naval Academy Kevin Marshall – Idaho Falls, United States Naval Academy Nathan Marshall – Idaho Falls, United States Naval Academy Dillon Hoy – Idaho Falls, United States Air Force Academy Kevin Miller – Idaho Falls, United States Air Force Academy Adam Armour – Idaho Falls, United States Military Academy Charles Sperry – Idaho Falls, United States Military Academy Marcus Poling – Idaho Falls, United States Military Academy SHELLY/AMMON Adam Emfield – Shelley, United States Merchant Marine Academy Alex Foster – Ammon, United States Merchant Marine Academy RIGBY/REXBURG/St. ANTHONY Bryan Perry – Rigby, United States Military Academy Austin Porter – Rexburg, United States Air Force Academy Aaron Tousley – St. Anthony, United States Air Force Academy
12.20.2011	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl Labrador voted today to convene a conference committee to negotiate differences between the House and Senate versions of legislation to extend the payroll tax holiday, as well as unemployment insurance. Last week, both Idaho Congressmen supported legislation to extend the payroll tax holiday and unemployment benefits, prevent a decrease in the Medicare reimbursement rate, and move forward with the Keystone XL energy pipeline for a full-year. That bi-partisan measure was fully offset by cuts in spending to other programs and passed the House by a vote of 234-193. Instead of taking up and passing their own full-year extension as President Obama had urged them to do, the Senate passed a two-month extension of the payroll tax holiday and left Washington, DC for their own holiday. Simpson and Labrador believe a two-month extension fails to provide certainty to job providers and creates a burdensome record-keeping and tax compliance headache for American businesses and workers. “I am disappointed the Senate chose to leave town without working with the House to finalize a year-long extension of these important provisions,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “The actions of the Senate do nothing to stimulate job growth, create an onerous burden on American businesses and workers, and generate even more uncertainty for job creators at a time when we can least afford it. I am glad the House has rejected this effort and is calling on the Senate to return to Washington where we can work out our differences in a traditional conference committee.” “The American people are tired of temporary tax gimmicks and demand significant tax reform. They are tired of Washington’s ‘business as usual,’ where legislation is aimed only to provide voters with passing reprieve to ensure incumbency,” said Labrador. “I opposed the Senate’s version of the payroll tax cut and unemployment insurance extensions because not only did it last a mere two months instead of a year, but it also eliminated critical reforms necessary to improve the entitlements system.” Labrador continued, “Our friends on the other side of the aisle often complain that conservatives resist compromise. I argue there is no greater agent of compromise than the traditional process of the Conference Committee. If Senate Democrats are serious about providing relief to America’s middle class, they will return to Capitol Hill next week to develop a workable compromise with House Republicans.” Congressman Simpson served as Speaker Pro-Tempore during the debate, and Congressman Labrador gave a two-minute speech on the floor. Click here to view a video of Labrador’s address. In addition to rejecting the Senate-passed, two-month extension, the House today passed a Resolution expressing the sentiment of the House that any measure to extend the payroll tax and other provisions include the following: A full-year extension of the payroll tax holiday; An extension of, and reforms to, Federally-funded unemployment benefits; A two-year elimination of dramatic cuts to Medicare physician reimbursements; A reduction in spending to other programs to protect the Social Security Trust Fund; Provisions to encourage job creation through the final approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and others measures. House members are calling on the Senate to join them in a traditional conference committee where differences on a full-year extension can be worked out and sent to the President for his signature prior to January 1, 2012.
12.16.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that the final Energy and Water Development conference report for fiscal year 2012 increases funding for nuclear energy and continues progress toward the development of new nuclear technologies, including those under development at Idaho National Laboratory (INL). Simpson is a senior member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, serving as one of its members for nearly nine years. “I am very pleased that the Appropriations Committee and Congress have once again demonstrated strong support for the development of nuclear energy and provided the resources necessary to continue our nation’s progress on new and promising nuclear technologies,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho National Laboratory and its exceptional workforce play a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. We all know that Congress has had to make some very difficult choices about where to focus limited taxpayer resources, and with that in mind I am very grateful for the confidence my colleagues have shown for nuclear energy in this bill.” Simpson also commended the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Office of Nuclear Energy and the Assistant Secretary for Nuclear Energy, Dr. Pete Lyons, for the support they have given to INL and nuclear energy programs. “The road to securing support for nuclear programs begins with the budgets produced by Assistant Secretary Pete Lyons and the folks who work at the DOE and at labs like INL,” said Congressman Simpson. “I want to thank Dr. Lyons for working with me and other supporters of nuclear energy to gain support for these critical programs in Congress.” The fiscal year 2012 Energy and Water Development conference report includes $768.6 million for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy, a $31 million increase over the FY2011 funding level of $737 million. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $768.6 million allotment include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory - $155 million; The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program - $74.9 million which includes; The Advanced Test Reactor National Scientific User Facility at INL - $14.6 million; Reactor Concepts Research and Development - $115.5 million. This funding includes $25 million for the Light Reactor Sustainability program and $40 million for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant program; Fuel Cycle Research and Development - $187.4 million; Small Modular Reactor Licensing Technical Support - $67 million; The bill also provides $386.9 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $386.9 million represents a $4.1 million increase over the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue their progress. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations conference report provides $32.1 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. This level of funding for these agencies represents a reduction of $4.1 billion below the President’s request. “If energy supply and price instability have taught us anything, it is that our nation needs to improve its focus on developing clean, safe, and domestic sources of energy and that nuclear energy must be a strong component of our nation’s energy portfolio,” said Simpson. The conference report is expected to pass the House and Senate today and be sent to the President for his signature before the current authorization for funding expires at midnight.
12.15.2011	As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Congressman Mike Simpson has been instrumental in ensuring that western interests are protected in the final appropriations bill for FY2012. The bill focuses on fiscal responsibility, reducing costs created through unnecessary litigation, and responsible management of our natural resources. The Interior and Environment appropriations bill, which is included in H.R. 3671, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for FY2012 was filed last night and can be viewed on the committee’s website. “The deficit crisis facing our country has underscored the need for fiscal restraint,” said Simpson.“This bill responds to that need not only by reducing funding for nearly every agency under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction, but also by making fundamental reforms necessary to ensure long-term fiscal health for agencies like the Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service.” The bill reduces funding overall for the agencies under the subcommittee’s jurisdiction and specifically cuts funding for the EPA by nearly 6% below the President’s request. Overall, funding for the EPA has been reduced by nearly $2 billion, or 18.4%, during calendar year 2011 under Simpson’s watch. These cuts include: Cutting the EPA Administrator’s immediate office budget by one-third; Reducing funding for EPA’s regulatory programs; Restraining spending on EPA’s proposed greenhouse gas regulations by cutting $4.6 million from the President’s request. “After unparalleled increases in FY10, we have reined in EPA spending in significant ways, bringing fiscal sanity back to the way the agency operates and curbing the agency’s regulatory overreach,” said Simpson. “I’m hopeful that by restoring some fiscal sanity to the EPA’s budget we will also provide a positive charge to our recovering economy.” In addition to reducing spending, the bill makes important reforms to address growing costs to taxpayers due to frivolous lawsuits. Such lawsuits are one of the biggest unbudgeted costs for land management agencies. As litigation costs siphon funding away from critical priority programs, agencies are forced to divert taxpayer dollars intended for carrying out legitimate land management responsibilities. “I’ve been appalled to learn that some state and field offices of agencies like the BLM and Forest Service have reported spending more than half of their current budgets responding to litigation,” said Simpson. “These unaccounted for costs undermine any effort to implement a responsible budget, and we can’t expect to reduce government spending unless we address some of the underlying issues.” To bring these costs under control, ensure greater accountability of taxpayer dollars, and increase transparency, Simpson included provisions in the conference report to: Extend for two years authorities to renew grazing permits while prioritizing work on the most sensitive environments; Require that environmental groups exhaust BLM’s administrative review process before litigating on grazing issues, saving the BLM significant taxpayer money currently wasted on litigation that could be resolved through the administrative process; Allow the Forest Service to use an administrative “objection” process rather than post-decisional appeals, saving the agency time and money and reducing litigation; Direct the Department of the Interior, the EPA, and the Forest Service to make publicly available detailed access to Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) fee information; The bill also increases congressional oversight by requiring the President to submit a report to Congress describing all Federal agency spending for climate change programs and activities in fiscal year 2011 and requiring the DoI, EPA, Forest Service, and Indian Health Service to report quarterly on the status of balances of appropriations. Other provisions in the bill include: A prohibition on funding for carrying out the Department of Interior’s “Wild Lands” initiative; Full funding for wildlife suppression and level funding for hazardous fuels reduction, as well as language directing the Forest Service to allocate hazardous fuels reduction funding based on highest priorities for reducing fire risk; Language prohibiting the EPA from requiring permits for storm water runoff from forest roads. For a summary of the three separate bills, please visit: http://appropriations.house.gov/UploadedFiles/12_14_11_FY_12_Final_Bill_Detailed_Summary.pdf For the complete text of the legislation, please visit the following sites: H.R. 3671 — Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 :: Division A [PDF] :: Division B [PDF] :: Division C [PDF] :: Division D [PDF] :: Division E [PDF] :: Division F [PDF] :: Division G [PDF] :: Division H [PDF] :: Division I [PDF] H.R. 3672 — Disaster Relief Appropriations Act, 2012 [PDF] H. Con. Res. 94 — Directing the Clerk of the House of Representatives to make corrections in the enrollment of H.R. 3671. [PDF] ###
12.15.2011	A must-pass appropriations bill unveiled today by the House Appropriations Committee includes a critical effort by Idaho Representative Mike Simpson and Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch to overturn a court decision that would bring forestry to a standstill in the Pacific Northwest and across the country. In August 2010, In NEDC v. Brown, the Circuit Court of Appeals for 9th Circuit ruled that logging road runoff, when channeled through a system of ditches and culverts and deposited into nearby rivers and streams, is point-source pollution and therefore subject to the permitting requirements of the Clean Water Act (CWA). By overturning the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 36-year-old policy of deferring to state regulators to manage such runoff, the decision will increase litigation on federal forests and, for the first time, subject state and private forests to the same specter. In response, Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, included a provision in H.R. 2584, the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Act, to overturn the court ruling and make permanent the successful system that EPA had utilized for 36 years. Meanwhile, Crapo and Risch, along with democratic Senators Ron Wyden of Oregon and Mark Begich of Alaska, introduced similar standalone legislation, the Silviculture Regulatory Consistency Act, which has 21 additional cosponsors, including seven Democrats. In the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Washington) and Congressman Kurt Schrader (D-Oregon) introduced identical legislation, cosponsored by 51 members, including Simpson. At Simpson’s insistence, legislation filed this week to finish out the nine appropriations bills for FY2012 includes language prohibiting the EPA from requiring permits for stormwater runoff from forest roads through FY2012. Efforts by Crapo and Risch in the Senate were essential in ensuring that this language was included in the final appropriations bill. “While this appropriations bill still needs to be approved by both Houses of Congress and signed by the president, the forest roads provision is a major victory that we should all be proud of,” said Crapo. “We in the Northwest have finally begun to work collaboratively to solve major natural resource conflicts. For proof, one need only look to the Owyhee Initiative in southwest Idaho and the Clearwater Basin Collaborative in north central Idaho, where ranchers, conservationists, county commissioners, tribes and recreationists are setting aside their differences and coming together to solve problems outside of the court room. This Court decision, if allowed to stand, would be a major setback for those efforts. I want to thank all of my colleagues who took part in this effort, and especially Mike Simpson, for helping to make this happen.” “Management authority to control runoff from logging roads must remain with the states. For over 36 years the states have successfully managed this runoff through state laws and mitigation practices,” said Risch. “To subject federal, state and private forest lands to the permitting requirements of the Clean Water Act will lock up these lands in endless litigation. I appreciate the work Rep. Simpson did in getting this in the appropriations bill.” “If enacted, the 9th Circuit Court’s decision would devastate the forest industry in the northwest—and its negative impacts are underscored by fact that this provision has broad bipartisan, bicameral support among those who represent the impacted states,” said Simpson. “This language is a simple but important fix to a misguided and problematic decision, providing the industry with needed certainty and allowing the EPA’s long-standing policy on forest roads to stand. I deeply appreciate the support of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle and in both the House and Senate, particularly Senators Crapo and Risch, in communicating to Senate Leadership and the White House how important this language is.” Since 1976, this category of runoff has been regulated by the EPA’s Silviculture Rule, which used the agency’s authority to define nonpoint sources to exclude logging road runoff from permits under the EPA’s National Pollution Discharge Elimination System. Congress assigned regulation of nonpoint sources to the States through adoption of best management practices and state law. In NEDC v. Brown, the 9th Circuit determined that EPA exceeded its authority under the CWA when it defined the practices used to control the runoff from forest roads as a nonpoint source. This legislation would reverse that ruling by codifying the Silviculture Rule into law and restoring management authority to the States. In building support for this effort, the Idaho delegation and others worked closely with the National Alliance of Forest Owners and its member companies across the country. This legislation also has the support of county commissioners, labor groups and countless others, including the Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, the Boone and Crockett Club and the Wild Sheep Foundation.
12.08.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted to prevent any effort by EPA to regulate farm dust. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act of 2011, by a vote of 268 -150. Simpson, who chairs the House Appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over the EPA’s budget, is a cosponsor of this legislation. “Any effort by a federal agency to regulate the dust created when a person drives on unpaved roads or when farmers work in the field would wreak havoc on farmers, livestock producers and other agriculturalists, especially in rural areas like Idaho,” said Simpson. “I was pleased to see this bill pass the House and am hopeful that the Senate will take a similar position on this issue—that increasing regulation of farm dust is as ridiculous as it sounds.” H.R. 1633 ensures that the EPA could not impose more stringent dust regulations for one year. The agency is currently in the midst of a five-year review of the Clean Air Act’s National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for Particulate Matter.
12.07.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported critical legislation to return accountability and transparency to the federal regulatory process. Congressman Simpson cosponsored and voted in favor of H.R. 10, the Regulations From the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act of 2011, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives today by a vote of 241-184. The REINS Act amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to require Congress to approve every new major regulation proposed by the executive branch. Federal agencies may no longer unilaterally adopt a new regulation that would cost over $100 million per year without congressional consent. By returning to Congress its constitutional charge, the REINS Act further holds Congress accountable to the American people for laws imposed upon them. “I believe Congress has a strong oversight role to play to ensure that federal agencies are not overreaching their authority and stifling job growth” Simpson said. “I have heard from countless Idahoans who are frustrated with impact of costly regulations on their ability to do business. In particular, I am concerned that the Obama Administration is using the regulatory process to force on the American people an agenda that is weakening our economy and pushing federal government further into the lives of citizens. The REINS Act is a crucial step in creating job growth and restoring economic confidence in America.”
12.02.2011	The Idaho National Laboratory played an integral role in the development of the car-sized Mars rover, named Curiosity, which blasted off last Saturday from Florida. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson congratulated the dedicated employees who developed, built and tested the nuclear battery that will power Curiosity. Congressman Mike Simpson said, “Our whole state can be proud of the work done at the INL. This battery will power the rover that we hope will answer the big question once and for all – can Mars support life?” Curiosity is the largest extraterrestrial rover in the world, and will arrive on Mars next August after journeying 354 million miles. This is not the first time the expertise of the INL has been sought in powering some of NASA’s most ground-breaking missions. The spacecraft New Horizons, launched in 2006, is currently en-route to fly past and study Pluto, and it is powered by a plutonium battery built at the INL. "Every single day the talented men and women of the INL are making great contributions toward the success of missions like this," said Simpson. "I couldn't be more pleased that this work is being done right here in Idaho, nor could I be more grateful for the efforts of those Idahoans who make INL such a tremendous national asset."
11.18.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior member on the House Budget Committee, voted for H.J.Res. 2, proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. While it was supported by a majority of members, it failed in the House when Democrats largely opposed the bill, which required two-thirds support for passage because it is a constitutional amendment. The final tally was 261-165. “I was disappointed with the outcome of this vote,” said Simpson, a long time cosponsor and supporter of a balanced budget amendment. “This amendment would ensure that the federal government would finally begin to live within its means after years of accelerated spending and growth. Just as families balance their checkbooks and weigh the value of purchases against their available funds, it is long past time Washington, DC, did the same.” “With the national debt at $15 trillion and yearly deficits approaching $1.5 trillion, this amendment would immediately end the practice of spending more than you can afford,” added Simpson. “Congress has proven time and again it is incapable of balancing its budget, as states like Idaho are required to do every year. The fact that the federal government has balanced its budget only six times in the past half-century tells you everything you need to know.” The Budget Control Act, passed in August, required that a balanced budget amendment vote take place in the House and the Senate – with the effort now failed in the House, the Senate vote will be largely ceremonial. That vote is expected to take place after Thanksgiving.
11.16.2011	As the Joint Select Committee established by Congress approaches the November 23 deadline to present a debt reduction plan for expedited consideration, Idaho Senator Mike Crapo and Congressman Mike Simpson say the members still have options. Crapo and Simpson joined dozens of Senate and House colleagues today at a Capitol Hill news conference to urge a comprehensive deficit reduction plan of up to $4 trillion. Crapo is a member of the Gang of Six who has been building support on a plan to reduce spending by $3.7 trillion over ten years. He says a three-tiered approach of discretionary and mandatory spending cuts and comprehensive tax reform promoting fiscal stability and economic growth can still be embraced in the Congress. Simpson recently authored a letter signed by over 100 House colleagues urging the Committee to ‘go big’ on spending reductions. “Our deficit is reaching crisis levels and there’s no more time for partisan finger pointing – and frankly, the American people no longer have the stomach for it,” said Simpson. “No political party has a monopoly on failed policies or over-the-top rhetoric. What Americans really want is for Republicans and Democrats in both the House and the Senate to set aside their party labels and focus on what is best for the country. I am proud to stand with my colleague and my friend, Senator Mike Crapo -- whose leadership in the Senate has been vital in this effort – to do what is necessary to put our fiscal house back in order.” “We understand the pressures facing members of the Committee, and we want them to see that widespread and bipartisan support exists for larger deficit reductions,” Crapo said. “There are already more than 40 Senators willing to embrace significant deficit-cutting proposals from the Gang of Six that will grow our economy by lowering tax rates, broadening the base and simplifying the tax code to make it flatter, fairer and more competitive. We have some of the highest corporate tax rates in the world. We are discouraging new economic activity and are at gridlock over spending cuts. We don’t have to be. We have bipartisan agreement to ‘go big’ and find a solution to our debt crisis.” The Joint Select Committee has until November 23 to agree on a plan to cut spending by at least $1.2 trillion to be considered under expedited procedures provided in the Budget Control Act. Under the law, Congress must approve the package by December 23. In the event the Committee fails to meet its target or Congress disapproves the plan, automatic spending cuts will go into effect to reduce funding levels from security and non-security accounts to meet any shortfall in the $1.2 trillion deficit reduction target.
11.10.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will host a one hour telephone town hall on Tuesday, November 15, at 7:00 p.m. MST. Telephone town halls are virtual community meetings where constituents are able to ask Congressman Simpson questions about issues before Congress and voice concerns they may have. Simpson enjoys meeting with Idaho business owners, teachers, farmers, and workers throughout Idaho. He also realizes that he’s not able to visit every community during a district work period, so he has scheduled a number of telephone town hall meetings in the coming months. “Telephone town halls are a great way to communicate with constituents,” said Simpson. “It gives me a chance to answer questions and learn more about issues that are important to people back at home.” If you would like to participate in the next telephone town hall, scheduled for Tuesday, November 15, at 7:00 p.m. MST, please click TELETOWNHALL on Congressman Simpson's homepage or click here for a direct link.
11.09.2011	“On this Veterans Day, I wish a warm welcome home to the soldiers of the Idaho Army National Guard 116th Cavalry Brigade Combat Team. These Idaho citizen soldiers served the past nine months in Iraq and returned home this fall. Idaho is proud of our men and women who serve our country honorably at home and abroad and of all the veterans who have served our nation. Thank you for your great service to our nation. “It is important to support measures to help our service members transition back into their daily lives and successfully enter the civilian workforce. We must all work together to ensure that they reacclimate to their roles in their families and communities, and we must help them move forward toward accomplishing their personal and professional goals. “Employment is critical for veterans transitioning back to civilian life. Unfortunately, the latest job figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that too many veterans are unemployed, and the overall veteran unemployment rate continues to rise faster than the national unemployment rate. Nationally, about 1 million veterans are reported out of work, and the unemployment rate for veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan is an alarming 11.7 percent. “We all know the current economic environment is very difficult, and I am doing all I can in Congress to stimulate job creation and reduce costly regulatory burden on Idaho’s job creators. On this Veterans Day, I ask Idahoans to work to employ our nations’ veterans and their spouses. I urge Idaho employers to reach out to veterans that are struggling to find work. The people who have fought for and defended our nation deserve the opportunity to become your best employees. Furthermore, I call on Idahoans to support veterans’ education, mentoring, and job-training programs at Idaho’s institutions of higher learning. “I believe that finding ways to help today’s veterans in need is a way to honor all generations of veterans. We will never forget our previous generations of veterans, as we will never forget those that gave their lives in ultimate sacrifice. Veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to preserve our way of life, and the American people are indebted to the men and women who have served our nation. I will continue working in Congress to ensure that veterans programs receive adequate funding so that all our nation’s veterans receive the treatment and care they deserve. As always I appreciate your input and active involvement in this most worthy endeavor. “
11.03.2011	“We may be living in divisive times, but if there is one thing almost all Americans can agree on, it is that Congress is doing a pretty poor job. Frankly, it’s not hard to see why they feel this way: time and again, as the country sits on the brink of economic disaster, Congress has failed to act until the last minute and even then has only done the minimum necessary, allowing partisan politics to trump finding common ground in the interest of the American people. “While political rhetoric continues to move further to the extremes on both sides of the spectrum, the reality is that the solutions to the big problems our nation has faced throughout our history have rarely been found on one end of the spectrum or the other. Instead, they have been found nearer the middle, where Republicans and Democrats have worked together and set aside partisan bickering in order to advance the ideals upon which our nation was founded. “As the deadline approaches for the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, or the Super Committee, to propose major deficit reductions to Congress, many Americans don’t believe they can succeed. Not only do we think they can succeed, but we don’t believe failure is an option. Like many economic experts, we believe we have this one chance to show the political fortitude to right this sinking ship. Our nation’s economic future depends on Congress’s willingness not only to make the $1.2 trillion in cuts required under the Budget Control Act, but to take this opportunity to go bigger than that and make the $4 trillion in reductions that experts agree is necessary to stabilize our economy. “We are not the only ones who believe that the Super Committee needs to act now and act big. In fact, we’ve joined with 98 other members of the House, members from both sides of the aisle and across the political spectrum, in sending a letter to the Super Committee urging them to go big. With one voice, 100 Republicans and Democrats are saying that doing the minimum isn’t good enough this time, that $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction, difficult as it may be, won’t get us out of the hole we’re in, and that we have this one shot to get it right. “We all, both Democrats and Republicans, know that we will not be able to get to $4 trillion in deficit reduction unless everything is on the table. Congress must have the political courage to have an honest discussion about all options, or we may soon find that we have run out of options. This is why our letter also urges the Super Committee to put forth a plan that looks at long-term entitlement reforms, the yearly discretionary budget, and government revenues. None of these areas alone can put us on a path to long-term fiscal health; we believe only a serious look at all of these elements will provide the heft needed to reach the necessary savings and convince Americans that Congress is ready to get serious. “As our deficit crisis has grown, both parties have pointed fingers across the aisle and blamed the policies of the other party for our current financial state. Now that the crisis is looming right before us, there is no more time for finger pointing—and, frankly, the American people no longer have the stomach for it. No political party has a monopoly on failed policies or over-the-top rhetoric. What Americans really want is for Republicans and Democrats to set aside their party labels and focus on what is best for the country. “There are at least 100 members of the U.S. House of Representatives who have shown the political courage to rise above political pressures and demands and support a plan that can turn our country around. Nearly half of the U.S. Senate has signed a similar letter to the Super Committee, and we are encouraged that this number grows each day. The challenges before the Super Committee and all of Congress are vast, but where there are great challenges, we believe there is also unprecedented opportunity. Now is the time to act.”
11.02.2011	Congressmen Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Heath Shuler (D-NC) are leading a 100-Member strong bipartisan effort to send a simple but important message to the Joint Select Committee on the Deficit Reduction, known as the Super Committee: Go Big. The 100 bipartisan Members of Congress sent a letter to the Super Committee with the simple and direct message that everything should be on the table and the goal should be closer to $4 trillion rather than the $1.2 trillion in deficit reduction required under the Budget Control Act. “This letter is signed by conservative, moderate, and liberal members of the House, and while their political philosophies may differ, they all understand the urgency that our national debt crisis represents. They understand that the Super Committee represents our best, and possibly only, chance to make the real reforms needed to return our country to fiscal health,” said Simpson. “I commend Representative Shuler for his tireless efforts to gather support for this letter. Heath understands that this is the time to act, and the respect he has among his colleagues and his ability to build consensus have made him a crucial partner in this important effort.” “I am so proud of all of my colleagues who signed this letter for their courage to put country before political parties and do what is right for the fiscal future of our nation,” said Rep. Shuler (D-NC). “Many believed the House could never come together to provide the real solutions and leadership our nation needs to get on a fiscally sustainable path. We are here today to show that we can. I applaud Representative Simpson for his hard work and steadfast determination to make this bipartisan effort successful. He is a visionary leader and true statesman, and we need more people like him in Congress.” The text of the letter can be found here.
10.27.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today lauded passage of legislation to repeal a 3% withholding on government contractors. H.R. 674 passed the House by a strong bipartisan vote of 405-16. Simpson has been a cosponsor of this legislation since 2008. “Democrats and Republicans alike recognize that allowing this provision of law to go into effect would increase costs for state and local governments and adversely impact small businesses,” said Simpson. “Idaho businesses, universities, and communities have all contacted me with their concern about the 3% withholding tax, and I’m pleased with the bipartisan effort to permanently repeal this misguided law.” H.R. 674 would repeal a provision of a tax law passed in 2005 that requires government entities to withhold 3% on payment to contractors for goods and services for federal taxes. The provision was originally intended to go into effect on January 1, 2011, but widespread concern about the unintended consequences of the law led to multiple delays of enactment. H.R. 674, which permanently repeals the provision, has broad bipartisan support. “While this may be a relatively narrow provision, its passage is an example of how members from both sides of the aisle can come together to do what is right for the country,” Simpson said. “Our country faces big challenges, and the only way we will solve them is to look past partisan politics and do what is in the best interest of the nation.” H.R. 674 is now under consideration by the U.S. Senate, where similar legislation has been introduced.
10.24.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s website www.simpson.house.gov was named one of the best websites on Capitol Hill today and given a “112th Congress Gold Mouse Award.” The award was given by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), a nonpartisan nonprofit working to improve communications between citizens and Congress and enhance operations in Capitol Hill offices. CMF has assessed and graded congressional websites and issued these awards since 2001. Idaho Senator Mike Crapo also received the award this year. "Rep. Simpson is to be commended for educating citizens and achieving the highest degree of transparency and accountability in online communications," said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of CMF. “I’m honored to receive such a distinguished award,” said Simpson. “The internet provides a valuable tool for constituents, they can visit my website to find out what is happening in Congress, sign up for a Capitol tour or to receive my E-newsletter, and most importantly, it provides another tool to communicate effectively with Idahoans.” CMF conducted its analysis from June to September 2011 and today released its latest report, “112th Congress Gold Mouse Report: Best Practices in Online Communications on Capitol Hill.” Download a copy of the report here. Of the 618 congressional websites graded, a total of 98 personal office, committee and leadership websites earned A’s, and will therefore receive a Platinum, Gold, Silver or Bronze Mouse Award. With the assistance and guidance of faculty from the University of California-Riverside, the Ohio State University, and Northeastern University, CMF staff assessed and graded the websites and gave each a numerical score, which was translated into a grade of A through F. The criteria for website assessments have been developed and refined by CMF over the past decade based on survey research, focus groups with constituents, and interviews with key stakeholders to congressional offices. A total of 92 criteria were used to grade personal office websites, 66 criteria for committee websites, and 53 criteria for leadership sites. Reviewers assessed 10 categories of criteria: usability of website; timeliness of content; breadth and depth of information on issues; constituent services and casework information; promoting accountability to constituents; legislative process information; district/state information; floor proceedings information; availability of diverse forms of content; and availability of diverse forms of content channels. CMF reviewers also included social media components in the criteria.
10.21.2011	“Idaho’s dairy industry is the third largest in the country and significantly impacts the economy of our state. Unfortunately, our dairy industry has suffered devastating losses in recent years due to escalating feed costs and plummeting milk prices, and federal dairy programs have proven unable to provide farmers with the tools to manage risk and succeed in volatile times. Existing programs are costly and prohibitively complex, and they discourage dairy producers from making decisions that enable them to survive market downturns. “When the dairy industry collapsed in 2009 low milk prices activated standing federal programs to support dairy farmers. While the government spent more than $1 billion to support the industry through existing dairy programs during this time, including the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program, the Dairy Product Price Support Program (DPPSP), and the Dairy Export Incentive Program (DEIP), the programs were far from effective at staving off economic disaster. What is more, they have done nothing to provide long-term certainty and stability to the market to prevent a similar collapse in the future. These programs are expensive as well as unproductive: MILC cost taxpayers $776 million in FY09 without providing the safety net needed to prevent a market collapse that year, and DEIP cost taxpayers $20 million in FY10 alone. Existing programs encourage overproduction and take away incentives for dairy producers to manage risk effectively. “It’s long past time to fix these problems and replace these outdated programs with an effective, fiscally responsible dairy program. This is why I have been pleased to work with the Idaho Dairymen’s Association and Representative Collin Peterson to introduce H.R. 3062, the Dairy Security Act of 2011. This legislation replaces the current programs with new risk management tools addressing the realities of today’s dairy industry, such as rising input costs and a growing export market. In order to provide producers with security to prevent devastating losses when milk prices drop and feed costs are high while giving them flexibility manage risk, H.R. 3062 consist of three main components: · The Dairy Producer Margin Protection Program, which calculates the producer’s margin based on the difference between the average national price of milk and the average feed cost, rather than based on the price of milk alone; · The Dairy Market Stabilization Program, which discourages overproduction of milk and alerts producers when overproduction of milk may have significant consequences on their overall margins; and · A streamlined Milk Marketing Orders basic pricing system that changes the way milk used to manufacture cheese is priced from a complicated end-product pricing formula to a more market-oriented competitive pricing system. “These changes are long overdue, and the new programs are a vast improvement over the current flawed system. I am confident that the Dairy Security Act of 2011 will move the dairy industry to a more market-focused industry while encouraging risk management and requiring less taxpayer assistance, positively impacting Idaho’s economy.” ###
10.14.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in the House of Representatives in supporting legislation to bring needed regulatory relief to America’s job creators. Last night the House passed H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, and last week passed H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act, with bipartisan votes. Both bills provide the EPA with the opportunity to re-propose and finalize achievable rules impacting the manufacturing sector. H.R. 2250 would impact four rules announced by EPA earlier this year affecting boilers, process heaters, and certain solid waste incinerators in the United States and set standards, including “maximum achievable control technologies” (MACT), under the Clean Air Act. As currently written, the rules would cost industry $14.4 billion and would put 224,000 jobs at risk. Even EPA recognizes that the rules are not practically achievable and requested a 15-month extension from the courts to re-propose the rules, but the request was denied. The bill provides EPA with a 15-month extension to re-write the rules, ensures that the new rules are achievable by real-world boilers, and extends the compliance deadline to allow industry adequate time to comply. Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 2250. “As originally published, the Boiler MACT rules could strike a severe blow to the manufacturing economy. Not only are the rules far more restrictive than actually needed to protect the environment, but they are cost-prohibitive and not achievable in the real world,” said Simpson. “H.R. 2250 gives the EPA the time it has requested to re-examine these rules and come up with reasonable, achievable standards that protect the environment without further damaging our economy.” H.R. 2681 proposes similar extensions and directives to EPA regarding rules impacting the Portland cement manufacturing industry. The rules currently proposed by EPA would impose extremely strict standards on the industry that are both cost- and technology-prohibitive and simply cannot be met by many facilities within the compliance period. The cement industry estimates that nearly 20 percent of domestic cement production would be shut down if the current rules were enacted. Simpson’s Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY12 includes language preventing the Portland cement rules from being implemented. “I am concerned that, in spite of the industry’s efforts to collaborate with EPA on creating standards that would be achievable and beneficial, the agency has ignore the industry’s concerns and proposed to implement regulations that not only are cost prohibitive but for which no technology currently exists,” said Simpson. “These rules are clear examples of the impact that EPA’s overzealous regulatory agenda is having on job creation in this country. Companies impacted by these rules are paralyzed by uncertainty about whether they will be able to afford hire new workers or even to continue operating. In passing these bills, the House is taking important steps to provide for more job creation in this country.” H.R. 2681 passed last Thursday by a vote of 262-161, while H.R. 2250 passed 275-142.
10.12.2011	The U.S. House of Representatives passed several bills today dealing with veteran issues. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported legislation that will increase employment opportunities for veterans and legislation that will honor former National Guard and Reserve members as United States veterans. The Veterans Opportunity to Work Act of 2011, which would create or modify programs that provide employment and training services to veterans and service members separating from active duty. The bill will provide up to 12 months of Veterans Retraining Assistance to unemployed veterans who enter education or training programs at community colleges or technical schools to prepare them for employment in an occupational field that is determined by Department of Labor (DOL) to have significant employment opportunities. “The latest job figures from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that too many veterans are unemployed, and the overall veteran unemployment rate continues to rise faster than the national unemployment rate,” said Simpson. “This legislation helps provide veterans with the opportunity to secure competitive employment in this difficult economic climate.” Simpson also supported legislation to recognize the veteran status to certain retired National Guard and Reserve service members. Individuals who served at least 20 years in the reserves, are under age 60, and were never called to active duty would be eligible for this honorary status. “Service members of the National Guard and Reserve perform a crucial role supporting our active duty component by responding in times of national emergency and standing ready to deploy in times of need,” said Simpson. “In recent years the need has been great, and the National Guard and Reserve have provided trained units that are equipped and ready to defend the United States. Each of these men and women deserve the recognition for their commitment and contribution to the defense of our nation.”
10.12.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted for three trade agreements that will greatly increase U.S. exports to three key countries, providing a much needed boost to the U.S. economy. The House of Representatives approved the U.S.–South Korea Free Trade Agreement, the U.S.-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement, and the U.S.–Panama Trade Promotion Agreement on strongly bipartisan votes. “These long-awaited trade agreements are an important boon to our economy,” said Congressman Simpson. “Inaction on trade agreements over the past few years has left American exporters struggling to compete. These agreements help to level the playing field and play an important role in stimulating needed economic growth.” According to the American Farm Bureau, passage of the three trade agreements represents nearly $2.5 billion in new agricultural exports. Implementing the agreements will create new markets for U.S. products, reduce the trade deficit, increase exports for a variety of goods, and create an estimated tens of thousands of jobs across the country. The House also passed a three-year extension of Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which provides compensation for those whose jobs have been eliminated because of trade. It greatly reduces the overall cost of the TAA program and eliminates it completely after 2014. The Senate is expected to take up and pass all three agreements tonight.
09.29.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has lent his support to a measure to prevent livestock operations from becoming Superfund sites. H.R. 2997, introduced by Representative Billy Long (R-MO), would ensure that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) does not impose regulations intended to clean up hazardous waste sites to livestock operations. Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the EPA and is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2997. “In light of EPA’s persistence in imposing its job-killing and unnecessary regulatory agenda on the American people, I believe it is important to clarify Congress’s intent on this issue,” Simpson said. “The Superfund law was never intended to regulate manure and other animal emissions as a toxic or hazardous substance. It defies common sense to presume that dairy and other producers who use manure as fertilizer should be regulated the same way as a chemical plant or mining operation.” The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA, also known as the Superfund Law) was passed by Congress in 1980 to address the legacy of hazardous waste sites that pose a threat to the environment or human health. The law makes those involved in creating the Superfund site liable for cleaning it up. H.R. 2997 ensures that manure and other animal emissions cannot be regulated under CERCLA, preventing farmers from becoming liable for the cleanup of entire watersheds. “It would be inappropriate, to say the least, to regulate manure under laws Congress intended for large-scale industrial waste,” said Simpson. “Idaho’s agriculture industry needs certainty in order to succeed, and this clarification ensures that producers can plan for the future without the risk of crushing and unreasonable liability hanging over their heads.”
09.23.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined his colleagues in passing H.R. 2401, the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation, or TRAIN, Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives 249-169. “Like many Idahoans, I am deeply concerned that the EPA has drastically expanded its regulatory authority,” said Simpson. “By pumping out new regulations every week, the Obama Administration is using the EPA to force on the American people an extreme environmental agenda that is hurting our fragile economy.” The TRAIN Act calls for a needed “time out” from some of the EPA’s most egregious regulatory proposals, including the Utility MACT and the new transport rule. Recent reports claim that if the proposed Utility MACT went into effect, it would effectively shut down one-sixth of the country’s coal-fired power plants, dramatically increasing energy costs and moving our nation further away from energy independence. The bill also requires an analysis of the cumulative impact that EPA’s proposals on job creation and global competitiveness. “If we really want to turn around our debt crisis, we need to get our economy going again. Unfortunately, the EPA is the wet blanket that is preventing companies small and large from investing in their businesses and creating jobs,” said Simpson. “Regulations like the Utility MACT and the transport rule are creating vast uncertainty in the market, leaving employers unwilling to risk hiring new employees. The TRAIN Act is about carefully weighing the costs and benefits of government regulation. It is about creating certainty in the marketplace, and it is about assuring businesses that it is safe to start hiring people and getting our economy moving again.” Simpson chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the EPA. Language similar to H.R. 2401 was included in H.R. 2584, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY12.
09.21.2011	“With more than 14 million people out of work, the economy in a holding pattern, and the stock market on a roller-coaster ride, Americans are frustrated, and rightly so. The President’s public approval rating is low, and many perceive that Congress is only spinning its wheels. Those who still have jobs have seen hits to their savings and investments while their cost of living has increased. The heart of the problem is that unemployment stubbornly sits above 9%, which continues to devastate our economy. “As I talk to employers throughout Idaho about the economic challenges they face, the common theme I hear is that tax and regulatory uncertainty has forced them to wait out the economic storm rather than investing in their businesses and creating new jobs. To provide the long-term stability that job creators need, I believe there are three important steps Congress must take to put people back to work and get our economy going again. “First, we must fundamentally reform entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security. We can no longer afford to look the other way on this issue—we must ensure that these crucial programs can continue to provide a safety net to those who depend on them in their daily lives. If we fail to do this, not only will those currently paying into the system see no benefit from their investment, but the programs will bankrupt our economy and collapse under their own weight. We can and must improve these programs now without unfairly impacting the benefits already earned by those in or near retirement. “Second, fundamental tax reform must be a critical component of any plan to address our debt crisis once and for all. Much has been made of the debate about whether to raise taxes to balance the budget, but I believe the problem goes much deeper than that. We must make fundamental changes to our tax code to promote economic growth while improving our ability to reduce the deficit. The tax code should be a simple system intended to raise the necessary revenue for appropriate government functions, not a complex system directing social behavior. “Finally, and I believe most importantly, we must put an end to the Obama Administration’s over-zealous regulatory agenda. Unfortunately, agencies like the EPA are the wet blanket preventing businesses from investing in job creation. It is imperative that we create certainty in the marketplace and assure businesses that it is safe to start hiring people without the threat of agencies like the EPA imposing regulations that are unreasonable and unnecessary and seem to change every few years, compounding and multiplying costs. “Idaho families are in the trenches, facing difficult financial decisions and trying to do the best they can in the midst of serious economic challenges. Progress in Congress on entitlement, tax and regulatory reform would send a message to the American people that Congress is serious about getting people working again and turning the economy around.”
09.13.2011	“As the debate about the Endangered Species Act rages in Congress and around the country, the one thing everyone seems to agree on is that a decision to list or delist a species should be based on science, not on politics. I couldn’t agree more. Unfortunately, the ESA, which was originally enacted in a successful effort to save the iconic bald eagle from extinction, has been hijacked by those whose goal is not to recover species but to control public land and water. As a result, wildlife and land management decisions that should be made by biologists at the Department of Interior have instead been forced into the courts where judges are making public land management policies. The Endangered Species Act has become so highly contentious, political, and litigious that it has become a policy failure. “If we want the ESA to work, wildlife managers need to be able to delist recovered species. Hunters, fishermen, ranchers, and landowners play an integral role in conservation, but they don’t feel empowered to participate when advocates force decisions to be made in court. “Wolves are a case in point. The Northern Rocky Mountain (NRM) wolf population has, by all reasonable counts, fully recovered, vastly surpassing even the most optimistic recovery goals. The population has grown so large it has spilled out of its original recovery area, with wolf packs showing up in Oregon, Washington, and Utah. Recognizing a recovered species when they saw one, the Fish and Wildlife Service delisted the NRM wolf population in states with approved management plans in 2009. Yet in spite of it being clear that wolves would continue to flourish, activitists went to court to force them back onto the list in 2010. “Keeping a strongly recovered wolf population on the endangered species list is in no one’s best interest except those who benefit from ongoing litigation. On the other hand, providing a long-term solution to the management of these animals serves the interest of the states, the federal agencies, ranchers and hunters, and those whose true goal is sustainable wildlife populations in the Rocky Mountain west. I included language in the fiscal year 2011 budget bill instructing the Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue their delisting rule in an effort to bring the ESA back in line with what Congress originally intended. “The recovery of the gray wolf should be considered a success under the ESA. What the debate about wolf delisting has revealed is that some groups will persist in keeping species like wolves listed in spite of all the evidence that they are recovered, proving that their end goal is not to recover species but to usurp the public process by forcing land and water management decisions to be made in court, not by Congress. “Hunters and fishermen are strong advocates for protecting our public lands and preserving wildlife, but they are not fooled by groups that claim to share their interests but instead make a living suing the government in an effort to keep fully-recovered species listed. We desperately need to reform the Endangered Species Act so that it encourages key partners to participate in the work of preserving and recovering species and making reasonable, science-based decisions regarding wildlife management. As hunting season gets underway in Idaho and the wolf hunt is finally reinstated, Idahoans know that the state is more than prepared to manage our wolf population.”
09.01.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will host a one hour telephone town hall on Tuesday, September 6, at 7:00 p.m. MST. Telephone town halls are virtual community meetings where constituents are able to ask Congressman Simpson questions about issues before Congress and voice concerns they may have. Simpson enjoys meeting with Idaho farmers, teachers, business owners, and workers throughout Idaho. He also realizes that he’s not able to visit every community during a district work period, so he has scheduled a number of telephone town hall meetings in the coming months. “Telephone town halls are a great way to communicate with constituents,” said Simpson. “It gives me a chance to answer questions and learn more about issues that are important to people back at home.” If you would like to participate in the next telephone town hall, scheduled for Tuesday, September 6, at 7:00 MST, please visit Congressman Simpson’s webpage, www.simpson.house.gov and click on the TELETOWNHALL button in the bottom right or click here to link directly. The deadline for this telephone town hall is close of business on Monday, September 5, but if you miss this deadline you may still sign up for future town hall meetings.
08.15.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will join Erik Schultz, Executive Director of the Arthur B. Schultz Foundation, and Ed Cannady, Recreation Technician for the Sawtooth National Recreation Area, in opening the Murdock Creek Trail on Thurs., Aug. 18 at 12:00 p.m. The Murdock Creek trail is a primitive-access wheelchair trail that is designed to maintain the character of wilderness while providing a greatly enhanced level of access for a wide variety of individuals with mobility limitations. “It is an honor to be part of this historic event,” said Simpson. “I’ve had the great opportunity to work with Erik Schultz so that individuals with mobility limitations can access our state’s beautiful backcountry areas. The Murdock Creek Trail is the first of its kind in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area and one of the first of its kind in the Nation. In addition, I look forward to the completion of the Phyllis Lake Trail upgrades as they will provide those with mobility limitations an incredible opportunity to enjoy a primitive high mountain lake experience.” Recently the first mile of the Murdock Creek trail in the SNRA was upgraded to a “primitive-access” standard. Primitive-access trails provide an enhanced level of backcountry/wilderness access for individuals with mobility limitations, including wheelchair users. However, primitive-access trails are not designed or required to satisfy guidelines for public access under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “The Murdock Creek trail now provides better backcountry access for a wider range of individuals with disabilities while remaining in harmony with the wilderness resource,” said Schultz. “The Murdock Creek and Phyllis Lake trails add a real backcountry access component to the already impressive diversity of adaptive outdoor recreation opportunities available in the Wood River Valley and SNRA,” said Cannady. “Collectively they make the region a truly world-class destination for outdoor enthusiasts with mobility limitations.” The primitive-access upgrades of the Murdock Creek and Phyllis Lake trails were made possible by federal funding secured by Representative Simpson. The Sawtooth National Recreation Area administered all trail construction, with funding for the initial Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Murdock Creek project provided by the Arthur B. Schultz Foundation, a charitable foundation based in Ketchum.
08.11.2011	U.S. House Agriculture Committee Ranking Member Collin C. Peterson, D-Minn., today announced that Rep. Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, has joined efforts to reform dairy programs. Simpson is the lead Republican proponent of discussion draft legislation released by Peterson earlier this month. The draft language is based on reform proposals put forward by the dairy industry. “I look forward to working with members of the Idaho dairy industry and Representative Peterson to prevent another economic disaster like the dairy industry suffered in 2009. I believe we can do better for Idaho dairy farmers,” said Simpson. “This legislation starts a conversation, that I intend to help lead, on how to build a more effective economic safety net for the U.S. dairy industry.” “Reforming dairy programs now will ensure producers have a strong safety net in place during tough times. Current programs are not working and if we have another dairy crisis like we had in 2009 the outcome could be devastating. Rep. Simpson’s support allows us to continue to develop legislation in a bipartisan way and ensure Americans continue to have access to a safe and abundant supply of fresh milk. I appreciate the feedback we’ve received from the dairy industry thus far and look forward to continuing that dialogue as we move ahead,” Peterson said. The reform proposal consists of three main components – a margin protection program, a Dairy Market Stabilization Program and reforms to the Federal Milk Marketing Order system. These proposals would provide a safety net based on margin protection, rather than price; and replace both the Dairy Product Price Support Program (DPPSP) and the Milk Income Loss Contract (MILC) Program.
08.01.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior Member on the House Budget Committee, joined his colleagues in passing the amended Budget Control Act of 2011 to avoid the possibility of defaulting on the debt. The bill passed in the House 269-161 . “Does this legislation solve all our problems? No it does not,” said Simpson, “but we have to ask: does it move us in the right direction? Does it begin fixing the enormous fiscal imbalance in our federal government? And, does it bring some certainty to our markets? It does. That’s why I supported it.” The legislation cuts $917 billion in spending and raises the debt ceiling by $900 billion, then requires that deeper cuts take place and a balanced budget amendment vote occurs before any further debt ceiling increase takes place. “It is important to realize that the entire debate over federal spending and the debt has changed over the last seven months. One year ago, before Republicans gained the majority in the House, President Obama would have received a blank check from Congress to continue spending while raising the debt ceiling.” said Simpson. “I could have chosen any number of reasons to oppose the bill, but in the end it puts us on a path to fixing our debt crisis and boosts our economy by preventing the possibility of a default and ensuring Social Security checks, active military paychecks and veterans benefits go out on time. It does all this without raising taxes.” Congressman Simpson had previously supported the Cut, Cap and Balance bill, which was the legislation preferred by House Republicans, but the bill did not have the support of the Senate or the White House. Simpson has been a cosponsor of a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution since he came to Congress. The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
07.29.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior Member on the House Budget Committee, joined his Republican colleagues in passing the Budget Control Act. The bill passed in the House 218-210. The proposal, which cuts $917 billion in spending and raises the debt ceiling by $900 billion, would require further enactment of a $1.8 trillion deficit-reduction package before any additional increase in the debt limit. It also requires a balanced budget amendment be sent to the states for ratification and does not raise taxes. The balanced budget amendment vote is scheduled to be considered by the House as early as this weekend. “This bill puts us on a path to solving our debt crisis and boosts our economy by preventing the possibility of a default and ensuring Social Security checks, military active duty paychecks and veterans’ benefits go out on time,” said Simpson. Credit rating agencies like Standard & Poor’s have said that the long-term debt of the United States is the greatest threat to its credit rating but that the possibility of a default would undoubtedly throw the economy into turmoil. S&P has stated repeatedly that a major debt-reduction plan is needed to protect the United States’ credit rating and prevent interest rate increases. “The Budget Control Act is a serious but practical bill that cuts government spending by more than it raises the debt ceiling and requires Congress to act in the near future to make significant reforms and continue to bring our spending and debt under control,” Simpson added. “It also compels Congress to pass a budget balanced amendment.” Congressman Simpson last week supported passage of the “Cut, Cap and Balance” legislation and has long been a cosponsor of a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. The Budget Control Act is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Americans for Tax Reform, and the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB). Dan Danner, President and CEO of the NFIB today said, “Small-business owners know they will go out of business if they spend more than they take in, and expect the government to operate by the same common-sense principle. Washington has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. We at NFIB thank Congressman Simpson for helping make the cuts necessary to start us on a path to get our fiscal house in order without raising taxes on America’s job-creators.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration.
07.19.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior Member on the House Budget Committee, joined his Republican colleagues in passing H.R. 2560, the Cut, Cap, and Balance Act of 2011. It passed 234-190. H.R. 2560 responds directly to the budget and debt crisis facing our nation by curtailing out-of-control spending and reducing the size of the deficit through three mechanisms: Immediate Cuts – It cuts discretionary spending for fiscal year 2012 at $30 billion below the current spending levels. Long Term Caps – It caps annual federal spending at 19.9% of U.S. gross domestic product by 2021 which would force sharp spending cutbacks in coming years. Balanced Budget – It allows for an increase in the debt limit only after both the House and the Senate have passed a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and sent it to the 50 states. “House Republicans are committed to bringing spending under control and brining the size of the federal government back to its historic size following years of growth and bloat. H.R. 2560 does just that,” said Simpson. “This plan, along with the House FY2012 Budget Resolution, stand in stark contrast to what President Obama and congressional Democrats have to this point offered as their solutions – nothing.” Congressman Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.J.Res. 2, a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, which he has cosponsored every session since he came to Congress.
07.12.2011	The House Appropriations Committee today marked up the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2012. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, put forth a bill that responds to our nation’s fiscal crisis by cutting $2.1 billion from the current fiscal year’s level. The bill shifts the focus away from efforts to grow government and back on proven, core programs. “This subcommittee has made very difficult choices in preparing this budget proposal, but at the end of the day, what this Committee is attempting to do is all about reducing spending, creating more certainty in the marketplace, and promoting an economic environment conducive to job growth,” Chairman Simpson said during the markup today. “If there’s one thing we should have learned from the last Congress, it’s that we can’t spend our way to economic recovery. That didn’t work. All it did was make the hole we’re in much deeper.” The FY12 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act funds agencies under the bill at $27.5 billion, a 12% cut from the President’s budget request and 7% below the FY11 enacted level. To do so, the bill prioritizes funding for agencies’ core missions and programs that have demonstrated value to the taxpayer. For example: The bill fully funds wildfire suppression at the 10-year average. The bill also restores funding to core science programs at the US Geological Survey, rejecting the administration’s proposal to transfer new, unfunded programs to the agency. The bill includes increased funding for the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management to hire new inspectors and move forward with offshore oil and gas permitting while also improving safety. The bill also ensures that land management agencies like the Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the Park Service have adequate funding for achieving land management goals, including ensuring that our national parks remain operational and fully staffed. While the bill aims to provide adequate funding for fundamental programs, it makes deep cuts in programs that have received unsustainable funding increases in recent years and dramatically reduces funding intended to grow government. The EPA, which received a $1.6 billion cut in FY11, is cut by an additional $1.5 billion. Taken together, funding for the EPA has been reduced by nearly a third during the current calendar year. “I recognize that the agencies funded under this bill are of keen interest to Idahoans, who live in a state where the federal government owns nearly two-thirds of the land, and I recognize that these cuts will be felt by many, even those who recognize that we need to rein in spending,” said Simpson. “The reality is that getting our economy back on track requires us to make difficult and sometimes unpopular choices. With this bill, we’ve shown that we are willing to do what it takes to make our nation healthy again.” The FY12 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act passed committee and it will be considered on the House floor in the coming weeks.
07.12.2011	The House Appropriations Committee today marked up the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY2012. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, put forth a bill that responds to our nation’s fiscal crisis by cutting $2.1 billion from the current fiscal year’s level. The bill included $1.5 billion in cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. “Earlier this year I said that the scariest agency in the federal government is the EPA,” Chairman Simpson said during the markup. “I still believe that. The EPA’s unrestrained effort to regulate greenhouse gases and the pursuit of an overly aggressive regulatory agenda are signs of an agency that has lost its bearings. Wherever I go, the biggest complaint I hear about the federal government is how the EPA is creating economic uncertainty and killing jobs.” The FY12 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act includes an 18% cut from current levels. Taken together with the $1.6 billion cut included in the FY11 continuing resolution passed in April, Simpson has reduced funding for the EPA by nearly a third during the current calendar year. The bill includes a number of provisions intended to address EPA actions that have created uncertainty in our economy and threaten future economic growth, including: A provision instituting a one-year prohibition on the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources; A provision prohibiting the EPA from changing the definition of “navigable waterways” under the Clean Water Act; A provision clarifying that aquatic pesticides, which are currently regulated under FIFRA, are not subject to duplicative regulation under the Clean Water Act; A provision requiring agencies to make information regarding payments for legal fees to litigants who sue the federal government available to the public; A provision providing exemptions from greenhouse gas reporting for certain agricultural activities; A provision putting an effective hiring freeze on EPA employees, rejecting the President’s proposal to hire additional regulators; A provision preventing EPA from implementing costly, counterproductive requirements for cooling water intakes at nuclear and other energy plants that would raise energy prices; A provision preventing EPA from expanding federal stormwater discharge program to existing commercial or residential properties without meeting congressional requirements; A provision maintaining EPA’s current regulations exempting forest practices—including forest roads—from point source permitting requirements under the Clean Water Act; A provision preventing EPA from implementing regulations to identify coal ash as a hazardous waste. During the Committee markup, additional amendments were adopted that would: Prohibit EPA from implementing proposed rules, including flawed Utility Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) standards, unachievable standards on the Portland cement industry, and the Transport rule, that would devastate domestic manufacturing and energy production; Prohibit EPA from regulating the use of the word "green" on lawn product labels; Prevent EPA from regulating animal emissions of ammonia under the Clean Air Act standard for nitrogen oxide; Prohibit EPA from usurping state authority over financial assurance regulations for hardrock mining; Prevent EPA from regulating farm dust; Prohibit EPA from designating areas that were flooded in the Midwest earlier this year as wetlands to be regulated under the Clean Water Act. “If we really want to do something about the national deficit, we need to get our economy going again. Unfortunately, the EPA is the wet blanket that is preventing small businesses, farmers, and ranchers from investing in their businesses and creating jobs,” said Simpson. “The provisions in this bill are about jobs. They are about creating certainty in the marketplace and assuring businesses that it is safe to start hiring people again without the threat of the EPA—under the guise of protecting the environment—imposing millions of dollars of penalties through regulations that are unreasonable or simply defy common sense.” The FY12 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act was passed by the House Appropriations Committee on Tuesday night. It will be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives in the coming weeks.
07.12.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, moved the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for fiscal year 2012 through committee today. The bill contains several provisions essential for preserving responsible access to public grazing and is expected to be considered by the full House within the next two weeks. “Today’s grazing practices are vastly different than the ones of the past. The majority of farmers and ranchers recognize that their livelihood depends on a healthy and sustainable environment, and the BLM and Forest Service do a much better job of weeding out the bad players and protecting sensitive areas,” said Simpson. “As a result of this bill, agencies will be able to focus their energies and resources on protecting the most environmentally sensitive areas while carrying out their mission more effectively.” The bill also addresses Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) fee payments. “Our ranchers have been under assault by frivolous lawsuits for years, lawsuits that are brought up for no other reason but to obstruct the process in order to control land and water,” said Simpson. “I’m concerned that some groups are basically funding themselves by abusing EAJA, turning suing the government into a cottage industry where taxpayers are the big losers. Our bill shines some light on the EAJA process, requiring detailed reports on the amount of program funds used, the names of the fee recipients, and the hourly rates of attorneys and expert witnesses stated in the applications that was awarded. Until now this information has not seen the light of day, and the public has a right to know how taxpayer dollars are being used.” Highlights of the bill and report: Grazing: The bill includes language extending the grazing rider that has been in place since FY99, which allows the BLM to extend existing expiring grazing permits while they complete the environmental work required for 10-year renewals. This language was included in the President’s budget request. This bill extends that language for five years. Also, requested by the Administration, the bill expands that language by allowing BLM to transfer permits under the same conditions without retriggering the NEPA process. This language will allow the BLM to process approximately 2250 permits per year, fully reducing its permit backlog over four or five years while focusing on better environmental work. The bill exempts the process of trailing from NEPA requirements for the years 2011 through 2014. This language will allow ranchers with existing permits to continue moving their cattle to grazing allotments while giving the BLM the opportunity to begin including trailing as part of their environmental analysis when renewing permits. The bill includes language preventing the Forest Service from applying the grazing rules that eliminate domestic sheep grazing on the Payette National Forest to other forests for five years while the Forest Service and the USDA complete needed research on the impact that domestic sheep have on wild sheep and to continue development of a vaccine to protect bighorn sheep populations from respiratory disease. Research has recently produced an experimental vaccine that shows promise, but work still needs to be done. Although this bighorn sheep population is not endangered, the bill continues current preventative management, including buffer zones between bighorn sheep and domestic sheep. Similar language is included to prevent BLM from implementing similar grazing restrictions. The bill also includes an increase of $16 million for BLM Range Management and a $10 million increase for Grazing Management on the National Forest System. Litigation: The bill includes language requiring litigants to exhaust the administrative appeals process before litigating in federal court on grazing issues. The report also includes language directing the Department of the Interior, the EPA, and the Forest Service to provide the Appropriations Committee with detailed information regarding EAJA payments and to make that information publicly available. The information required includes: detailed reports on the amount of program funds used; the names of the fee recipients; the names of the federal judges; the disposition of the applications (including any appeals of action taken on the applications); and the hourly rates of attorneys and expert witnesses stated in the applications that was awarded, for all EAJA fee payments awarded as a result of litigation against any of the Department of Interior bureaus, the EPA, or the Forest Service, or their respective employees. The report shall also include the amounts, outside of EAJA awards, paid in settlement of such litigation. Such information will also be included with each agency’s annual budget submission in the future.
07.07.2011	The House Interior and the Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which is chaired by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, today marked up its appropriations act for fiscal year 2012. The Act provides a responsible level of funding for the Department of the Interior, the EPA, and related agencies, including the U.S. Forest Service, by saving $2.1 billion from the current fiscal year’s level and focusing on proven, core programs. “We are living at a time when the federal government borrows over 40 cents for each dollar that it spends. We are also living at a time of record deficits and debts,” Chairman Simpson said during the subcommittee markup. “This committee is taking meaningful steps to help put our country’s fiscal house in order. While reductions in discretionary spending alone will not erase the deficit, the bill before us this morning is a step forward in that direction.” The FY12 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act funds agencies under the bill at $27.5 billion, a 12% cut from the President’s budget request. The EPA will see an additional $1.5 billion in cuts from the current level. Between this bill and the FY11 Continuing Resolution passed in April, EPA funding has been reduced by 31 percent during the current calendar year. “Some naysayers will no doubt try to portray Republicans as not supporting clean water, clean air, and a clean environment, but such assertions are simply untrue,” said Simpson. “The reality is that the EPA has received unprecedented and unsustainable increases in recent years. In an environment of historic budget deficits and reduced spending, it should come as no surprise that the agency that saw the greatest increases will inevitably see the greatest cuts.” The bill also shifts funding away from unproven programs and government growth and focuses it on agencies’ core missions and programs that have demonstrated value to taxpayers. The Chairman’s mark drastically reduces funding for new land acquisitions but provides adequate funding for priorities like National Park Service operations and resource management. The bill cuts funding for expensive and uncoordinated climate change programs by 22% but enables the government to meet its trust responsibilities to Native American communities. The bill also contains a number of provisions intended to provide the regulatory certainty needed for economic growth, including: A provision instituting a one-year prohibition on the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources; A provision prohibiting the EPA from changing the definition of “navigable waterways” under the Clean Water Act; A provision enabling the BLM and Forest Service to reduce grazing permit backlogs while focusing on the most environmentally sensitive areas; A provision clarifying that aquatic pesticides, which are currently regulated under FIFRA, are not subject to duplicative regulation under the Clean Water Act; A provision requiring agencies to make information regarding payments for legal fees to litigants who sue the federal government available to the public; A provision providing exemptions from greenhouse gas reporting for certain agricultural activities; A provision putting an effective hiring freeze on EPA employees, rejecting the President’s proposal to hire additional regulators.
07.01.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will host a one hour telephone town hall on Thursday, July 7, at 7:30 p.m. MST. Telephone town halls are virtual community meetings where constituents are able to ask Congressman Simpson questions about issues before Congress and voice concerns they may have. Simpson enjoys meeting with Idaho farmers, teachers, business owners, and workers throughout Idaho. He also realizes that he’s not able to visit every community during a district work period, so he has scheduled a number of telephone town hall meetings in the coming months. “Telephone town halls are a great way to communicate with constituents,” said Simpson. “It gives me a chance to answer questions and learn more about issues that are important to people back at home.” If you would like to participate in the next telephone town hall, scheduled for Thursday, July 7, at 7:30 MST, please click here to link to the teletowhall sign up form. The deadline for this telephone town hall is close of business on Tuesday, July 5, but if you miss this deadline you may still sign up for future town hall meetings.
06.16.2011	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Fiscal Year 2012 Agriculture Appropriations bill, H.R. 2112. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported the bill and is extremely pleased with several provisions, including one that will prevent the USDA from forcing schools to limit servings of potatoes and other similar foods to one cup per week at the estimated increased cost of $6.8 billion over five years. “The USDA proposed rule would have been another completely unnecessary, unfunded mandate by the federal government,” said Simpson. “A medium potato contains over 200 milligrams more potassium than a banana and has as much fiber as a similar serving of broccoli. Serving potatoes, corn, and green peas to our children in school lunches is not causing the obesity epidemic in America. This USDA rule was senseless, and, worse yet, it would have passed on the onerous costs to our schools who are trying desperately to make ends meet.” Current school meal standards require that less than 30% of the calories be from fat, and less than 10% of the calories be from saturated fat. Potatoes are fat free, cholesterol free and low in calories. Potatoes are sodium free, and low sodium diets help to reduce the risk of high blood pressure and stroke. By eating one medium sized potato, you will receive 45% of the recommended daily value of Vitamin C — a great antioxidant. Potatoes contain 18% of the recommended daily value of potassium — a great way to build stronger bones. The 3g of fiber in one medium-sized potato is 8% of the recommended daily value. Background: On January 13, 2011, USDA issued the proposed rule, “Nutrition Standards in the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs.” This proposed rule would have mandated drastic changes to the school meal programs that would have incurred significant costs to all school districts. There would have been no federal funding provided for implementation of the rule, and USDA estimated that cost would have amounted to an increase of 50 cents per breakfast served and 14 cents for every lunch served, totaling $6.8 billion over five years. According to the proposed rule, “small entities would incur roughly 80% of estimated costs.” Due to the radical changes and extreme costs that would have been associated with the proposed rule, it is likely that considerable numbers of students and schools would have chosen not to participate in the school meal programs, especially school breakfast, had Congress allowed the rule to be implemented. The House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee included report language in subcommittee report for H.R. 2112, the FY12 Agriculture and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, which directed USDA to issue a new proposed rule that will not incur increased costs.
06.13.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 1932, the Keep Our Communities Safe Act. This bill will allow Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to detain dangerous criminal immigrants beyond six months who are under orders of removal but cannot be deported. “Because of a court ruling, law enforcement is required to release dangerous immigrant criminals after six months of detention if they cannot be deported to their home country, even though many countries make it difficult to repatriate immigrants. This is just wrong and we need to close this absurd loophole that allows criminals to walk free in our communities,” said Simpson. In the 2001 decision of Zadvydas v. Davis, the Supreme Court ruled that under current law, immigrants who had been admitted to the U.S. and then ordered removed could not be detained for more than six months. In the 2005 case of Clark v. Martinez, the Supreme Court expanded its decision in Zadvydas to apply to those who entered the United States illegally. As a result, the Justice Department and DHS have had no choice but to release thousands of criminal immigrants into American neighborhoods. In the last two years, close to 10,000 immigrants with orders of removal were released. Justice Department officials have stated that these criminal immigrants include rapists, child molesters, murderers, and other dangerous criminals. This bill would allow DHS to detain dangerous criminal immigrants beyond six months who are under orders of removal but cannot be deported. The legislation would also correct Circuit Court decisions interfering with the ability of DHS to detain illegal and criminal immigrants during their removal proceedings so they do not abscond. “American families should not have to worry that dangerous criminals are walking their streets because their home country would not let them return,” said Simpson. “H.R. 1932 takes action to make sure that immigrants who commit dangerous crimes can stay in jail and out of our communities.”
06.03.2011	Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee, joined his colleagues in writing to Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack expressing concern over the Proposed National Forest System Land Management Planning Rule. Members fear the language in the proposed rule will result in an abundant of unnecessary lawsuits at the cost of the taxpayer. “The Forest Service should be issuing clear, concise and less cumbersome rules to manage our natural resources effectively,” said Simpson. “Instead, this rule would make local management decisions much more difficult, and I am confident that it would only create a slew of frivolous lawsuits, costing taxpayers millions at a time when we are working to rein in spending and ensure that taxpayer dollars are being spent efficiently and for their intended use.” In February, the United States Department of Agriculture released a proposed planning rule, “National Forest System Land Management Planning” (36 CFR Part 219 RIN 0596-AC94) to guide land and resources management for all units of the National Forest System (NFS) under the National Forest Management Act (NFMA) of 1976. The proposed rule sets forth process and content requirements to guide the development, amendment, and revision of land management plans of the nation’s 155 national forests and 20 grasslands. This is the fourth attempt to implement a new planning rule since 2000 and the proposed rule, as written, would likely be devastating to the multiple uses currently on NFS lands. “I’m particularly concerned about the viability provision in the proposed rule that requires the Forest Service to survey every species—vertebrate and invertebrate—in the National Forest System,” said Simpson. “Not only does this provision alone stand to bog the agency down with litigation, but it is simply impossible for the agency to implement in the current budget environment.” The letter outlines the Members’ concern over many provisions included in the proposed rule and request it be amended or removed prior to releasing the final rule. A copy of the letter is on Congressman Simpson's website.
06.02.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the work of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development in crafting a bill that increases funding for nuclear energy and continues progress toward the development of new nuclear technologies, including those under development at Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson is a senior member of the Subcommittee, serving as one of its members for over eight years. “I am very pleased that the Subcommittee has once again demonstrated its support for the development of nuclear energy and provided the resources necessary to continue our nation’s progress on new and promising nuclear technologies,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho National Laboratory plays a vital national and international role in leading the development of new nuclear technologies, and this bill will help maintain and expand that role in the future. The Subcommittee had to make some very difficult choices about where to focus limited taxpayer resources, and I am very grateful for the confidence my colleagues have shown for nuclear energy in this bill.” Simpson also commended a provision in the bill that directs the Secretary of Energy to report to Congress on how investments in science and applied energy programs are consistent with the national goals of increasing the supply and reducing the cost of clean energy. “I think it’s important that the Administration and Congress acknowledge the DOE’s core mission of energy independence and refocus priorities to reduce our reliance on unstable energy supplies,” said Simpson. “It is my hope that this report will help us re-establish the right priorities for limited funding and set us on an enduring path to energy independence.” The fiscal year 2012 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes $733.6 million for the DOE’s Office of Nuclear Energy, an almost $8 million increase over the FY2011 funding level of $725.8 million. Nuclear energy research and development programs that receive funding within the $733.6 million allotment include: The Idaho Facilities Management account, which covers infrastructure maintenance and improvement at Idaho National Laboratory; The Next Generation Nuclear Plant program, a high-temperature gas-cooled reactor designed to allow nuclear power to provide process heat for industrial applications; The Nuclear Energy Enabling Technologies program, including the Advanced Test Reactor National Scientific User Facility at the INL; Reactor Concepts Research and Development; Fuel Cycle Research and Development; University Research Programs; Small Modular Reactor Development and Licensing Support; Light Water Reactor Sustainability programs, which promote the continued safe operation of America’s existing nuclear reactors. The bill also provides $382.8 million for cleanup activities associated with the Idaho Cleanup Project and the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project co-located on the Idaho desert with Idaho National Laboratory. The funding level of $382.8 million is level with the President’s request and allows the significant cleanup activities currently underway to continue their progress. Overall, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides $30.6 billion dollars for the functions of the Department of Energy, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation and a number of independent agencies, including the Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Bonneville Power Administration. This level of funding represents a reduction of $1.04 billion below the FY2011 amount and $5.9 billion below the President’s request. “If energy supply and price instability have taught us anything, it is that our nation needs to improve its focus on developing clean, safe, and domestic sources of energy and that nuclear energy must be a strong component of our nation’s energy portfolio,” said Simpson The bill was unanimously approved today by the Subcommittee and is expected to be considered by the full Appropriations Committee in two weeks.
06.02.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will once again serve as a Co-Chairman of the House Sugar Caucus, and he has also joined the House Specialty Crop Caucus. Both organizations serve as informal groups providing a forum for Members and staff to discuss issues affecting both the domestic sugar industry and specialty crops. “Idaho is the third-largest producer of sugarbeets in the United States, and it is critical to stay on top of issues that may impact the industry,” said Simpson. “I look forward to working with Members on both sides of the aisle in order to create a productive dialog that pertains to domestic sugar.” Congressman Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL) will serve as the other Co-Chairman for the House Sugar Caucus, and other members include: Rep. Dennis Cardoza, Rep. Jim Costa, Rep. Grace Napolitano, Rep. Bob Filner, Rep. Mazie Hirono, Rep. Cedric Richmond, Rep. Jeff Landry, Rep. Rodney Alexander, Rep. Bill Cassidy, Rep. Charles Boustany, Rep. Dave Camp, Rep. Dale Kildee, Rep. Candice Miller, Rep. Thaddeus McCotter, Rep. Collin Peterson, Rep. Dennis Rehberg, Rep. Adrian Smith, Rep. Eliot Engel, Rep. Marcy Kaptur, Rep. Kurt Schrader, Rep. Greg Walden, Rep. Ruben Hinojosa, and Rep. Cynthia Lummis. The specialty crops industry supports tens of thousands of jobs nationwide and helps sustain hundreds of rural community economies. Specialty crops also make up a large portion of Idaho’s agriculture industry. Some of the largest specialty crops produced in Idaho include potatoes, dry edible beans, onions, apples, mint, nursery stock, and vegetable seed. “American farmers grow high quality, safe fruits and vegetables that are enjoyed both domestically and worldwide,” said Simpson. “Our specialty crop growers face challenges similar to other agriculture sectors, such as business trade and labor policies. It is important to form ag caucuses in order to share information, develop policy strategies for efforts impacting specialty crops, and coordinate our efforts to represent our constituencies.” Congressman Doc Hastings and Congressman Dennis Cardoza will serve as the Co-Chairs of the House Specialty Crops Caucus and other members include: Rep. Steve Southerland, Rep. Michael Michaud, Rep. Pete DeFazio, Rep. Kurt Schrader, Rep. Rick Larsen, Rep. Jim Costa, Rep. Jeff Denham, Rep. Jean Schmidt, Rep. Alcee Hastings, Rep. Vern Buchanan, Rep. Greg Walden, Rep. Bill Owens, Rep. Gregorio Sablan, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and Rep. Bill Huizenga.
06.01.2011	The House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Environment and the Economy today held a hearing entitled, “The Department of Energy’s Role in Managing Civilian Radioactive Waste.” Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson was asked to testify about the Administration’s attempt to terminate the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. “The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is supposed to serve as an independent watchdog, driven by science, not politics,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, the Chairman of the NRC has lost sight of its mission in order to affect a political outcome and has eroded the reputation of the NRC at a time when public confidence is needed most and he should be replaced.” Current law designates Yucca Mountain as the nation’s repository to receive spent nuclear fuel and other high-level nuclear waste. Last year, the Administration requested the license application for Yucca Mountain be withdrawn and the NRC’s licensing board denied that request. Since that time, the Chairman of the NRC, Gregory Jaczko has refused to act on the licensing board’s ruling, essentially stalling the project. “Let’s be perfectly clear here, we all know why this decision was made. It wasn’t about science or the suitability of Yucca Mountain, or even the need for a geological repository for high-level nuclear waste. It was a promise made during the heat of a presidential campaign – it was pure politics,” Simpson said. “However, the issue of citing the nation’s nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain is a matter of law, not politics. It serves as the clearest example of an ever changing policy, which is costing the taxpayers billions of dollars and diminishing our ability to advance a long term energy policy for our country.” To watch Congressman Simpson’s full testimony visit his YouTube webpage.
05.31.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted against a “clean” debt limit increase proposal. The bill, never expected to pass, was intended to show that the House will not agree to an increase in the debt limit without significant debt reduction proposals included. President Obama proposed and 114 House Democrats signed a letter to their leadership asking for a “clean” increase of $2.4 trillion in the debt limit with no spending cuts or debt reduction plans attached. The House has rejected that notion 97 to 318. “This vote sets a marker that the House will not pass a debt limit increase without substantial commitments that will show the American people that Congress is serious about reducing the national debt and bringing spending back under control,” Simpson said. “President Obama’s proposal, supported by many House Democrats, won’t pass.” The current debt limit is expected to be reached on August 2, 2011. “No one wants to be in this situation,” said Simpson, “but Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, needs to take this opportunity to take stock of past mistakes made by running up record budgets and making little effort to pay for them. The days of record deficits and soaring debts must end. Congress needs to meet this challenge and take another step toward lasting fiscal security for this country.”
05.25.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today acted to protect taxpayers by requiring new transparency in a federal program that pays people to sue the federal government. Simpson did so by signing on as an original cosponsor to the Government Litigation Savings Act, authored by Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), which reforms the federal Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) and shines a spotlight on abuses of the program, which are particularly prevalent with regards to land management agencies. Simpson is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. “For too long, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and its millions of dollars in yearly federal payouts, has operated without review by Congress and without regard for taxpayers, allowing litigation to become a cottage industry,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “The Government Litigation Savings Act is a prudent, responsible step in the right direction toward a more accountable and less costly judicial access program for those with limited means. It is well past time for this program to see fundamental reforms, and I am pleased a bill like this is now before Congress.” Among its many provisions, the Government Litigation Savings Act: Requires that EAJA filers must show a “direct and personal monetary interest” in the action to be eligible for payments. Direct and personal interest includes personal injury, property damage, or unpaid agency disbursement. Establishes a cap of $175 per hour for attorney’s fees, pegged to inflation. Caps total EAJA reimbursements to $200,000 for any single action, and allows no more than three EAJA awards in a calendar year. Establishes reporting requirements government-wide, including an explanation from the agency explaining why its position was not substantially justified, and establishes an online, searchable database for funds paid out of EAJA and to whom the funds were paid. Requires that funds paid from EAJA in sealed settlement agreements must be included in the online report. In addition, the legislation requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct an audit of EAJA payments over the last 15 years. “The EAJA program was originally intended to help people with limited resources seek redress against the wrongs of the federal government, and nobody disagrees with that intent,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, it has turned into a program that uses taxpayer dollars to subsidize the litigious addictions of special interest groups. American taxpayers, businesses, farmers, and ranchers, as well as our nation’s court system, are ill-served by EAJA in its current form and that is why this legislation is so important."
05.12.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is joining his colleagues in opposing EPA’s efforts to regulate dust by becoming a cosponsor of H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act of 2011. This legislation would stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in its current review from imposing more stringent dust standards for one year. Simpson, like many of his western colleagues, has deep concern about the impact of the dust regulation on communities in the arid west and believes the increased regulatory burden associated with dust standards would cause extreme hardship to farmers, livestock producers, and other resource-based industries throughout rural America. “The EPA acknowledges that the evidence that rural dust is damaging to human health is inconclusive, yet they continue to regulate it in the same manner as other forms of particulate matter, for which evidence is more definite,” said Simpson. “This is a prime example of the EPA overstepping its authority without justification. Once again, the EPA has failed to recognize the everyday impacts of over-regulating based on inconclusive evidence.” The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is in the midst of a five-year review of the Clean Air Act’s National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for Particulate Matter (PM). One form of regulated matter, coarse PM (dust), becomes airborne when a person drives on unpaved roads or farmers work in their fields, and is composed primarily of soil particles and naturally occurring organic materials. Simpson is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, which oversees funding for the EPA.
05.04.2011	The Idaho Congressional Delegation today praised the actions of the U.S. Department of the Interior to delist the recovered gray wolf in the Northern Rocky Mountains. The decision came after Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Appropriations Interior Subcommittee, inserted language in the recent continuing resolution to return the gray wolf to state management. “No one can rationally argue that the Rocky Mountain gray wolf is still endangered. Wolf populations in the west are robust and far exceed recovery goals,” said Simpson. “If the Endangered Species Act is going to be effective at all, we need to remove recovered species from the list and consider it a victory. In this case, instead of recognizing that wolves have made a strong recovery, advocates have been intent on listing them in perpetuity, preventing wildlife managers from making good management decisions and undercutting the intent of the ESA. Today we’re finally moving past this controversy, putting wolf management back into the hands of the state, where it belongs.” “I commend the Department of the Interior and Fish and Wildlife Service for promptly complying with the wolf delisting provision that was included in the recently-passed Continuing Resolution for the remainder of this fiscal year,” said Senator Mike Crapo. “As I have said on many occasions, the wolf is recovered in the northern Rockies and the State of Idaho has proven that it can and will effectively and responsibly manage wolves. Now that the federal government has taken this step, the State of Idaho can finally get to work.” “Common sense has finally prevailed when it comes to managing wolves in Idaho,” said Senator Jim Risch. “This species is fully recovered and now state wildlife experts can manage gray wolves just like other predator species found throughout the state. It is unfortunate that it was such an arduous task to get this issue resolved.” “The original purpose of the ESA has been perverted to do the bidding of activist environmentalists. This is the first step to ensuring these groups no longer misuse the ESA to permanently protect a species regardless of its recovery,” said Congressman Raúl Labrador. “The recovery of the gray wolf took place several years ago and since that recovery many Idahoan ranches and outfitting businesses have suffered through the killing of livestock and prime hunting herds by these apex predators. We must remain vigilant in the future to other overbearing federal restrictions on state sovereignty. This is a great example of a crisis that could have and should have been handled by the state itself and not the federal government.” Simpson’s language in H.R. 1473 overturned the August 2010 decision by a district court in Montana to put wolves in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Utah back on the endangered species list, in spite of the fact that these populations have met and exceeded recovery goals. The language directed the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue its 2009 decision to delist wolves in Idaho and Montana within 60 days of enactment. Today’s action by the Fish and Wildlife Service complies with the law, republishing the final rule and allowing for state management, including managed hunts, in Idaho and Montana this year. This rule is effective immediately upon publication. Gray wolves will remain protected in Wyoming, but Simpson’s language protected the ability of the state of Wyoming to negotiate its own state management plan, which, once approved, would allow the Fish and Wildlife Service to delist the entire Northern Rocky Mountain population.
05.04.2011	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl R. Labrador supported H.R. 1213 and H.R. 1214, which both repeal large mandatory spending funds in President Obama’s health care bill that was signed into law last year. H.R. 1213 would repeal the portion of the health care bill that gives the Secretary of Health and Human Services access to the “amount necessary” to implement health insurance exchanges. This “amount necessary” is not specified in the bill, essentially granting an unlimited tap on the U.S. Treasury to implement the health care bill. H.R. 1214 repeals a large mandatory construction fund for School-Based Health Centers. However, these newly constructed facilities may never provide care because no mandatory fund exists in the health care bill to actually pay for care. Additionally, between the stimulus bill and the health care bill, $3 billion is available for construction at Community Health Centers, making this mandatory fund duplicative and unnecessary. The bill saves $100 million according to the Congressional Budget Office. Both bills passed in the House of Representatives and now move to the Senate for consideration. “There is absolutely no reason that the funds used to set up the health insurance exchanges and construction funds in the bill should not be justified every year in Congress just like many other programs,” said Simpson. “Essentially, the Health Care bill requires that large sums of money be spent, and then provides that money within the law and takes away the Appropriations Committee’s ability to reduce or eliminate these funds.” “H.R. 1213 was both unacceptable to me from a philosophical standpoint as well as a practical one. Exchanges theoretically show promise as a means to bring free market competition to health care, which should bring down costs, but this Health and Human Services “slush fund” did nothing more than allow the Secretary to pick winners and losers among the states,” said Labrador. “Worse, the funding pool was basically uncapped and it was not tied to any mechanism that would encourage innovation, efficiency and most importantly accountability. We need real healthcare reform in this country and not new systems that will increase rather than decrease costs and spending, as these health exchanges would have done.”
05.01.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement regarding the killing of Osama Bin Laden’s. "It goes without saying that news of Bin Laden's death is welcome news here in the United States and across the globe and stands as a stark reminder to would-be terrorists that our nation will not rest until it brings to justice the many faces of terror. While we celebrate this news, it is important that we remember the victims of terrorism and offer our gratitude to the men and women of our nation who have sacrificed so much to protect our freedoms. It is also important that we remain vigilant against those who would do us harm and act prudently in the coming days, weeks, and months to guard against future acts of terrorism."
04.27.2011	Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and Bureau of Land Management Director Bob Abbey will join Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson at the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC) in Boise on Thursday. Salazar, Abbey and Simpson will discuss the early start to the 2011 fire season in the southwest, safety and preparations for the rest of the year, and a national strategy designed to address America’s wildland fire challenges. Media is invited to participate in the tour and media availability. WHO: Ken Salazar, Secretary of the Interior Robert Abbey, Director of the Bureau of Land Management Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson WHAT: Tour of the National Interagency Fire Center and Press Availability WHEN: Thursday, April 28, 2011 12:30 p.m. MDT – Tour of the National Interagency Fire Center 1:30 p.m. MDT – Press Availability WHERE: National Interagency Fire Center, Jack Wilson Building 3833 S Development Ave Boise, ID
04.27.2011	Participants of the Congressional Art Competition will be featured in an exhibit in the Idaho Falls Art Museum (300 S. Capitol Ave.) on Thursday, April 28, 2011. Congressman Mike Simpson invites all to attend the unveiling ceremony that will begin at 5:00 p.m. Many students will be in attendance and this event is open to the media and public. High School art students around the congressional district had the opportunity to create an artwork to enter in this year’s Congressional Art Competition. The winner will be sent to the Architect of the U.S. Capitol and will be on display at the Capitol for one year. Southwest Airlines will also fly the student and his or her parent to Washington, D.C to attend the National Ceremony in June. “There were some amazing entries this year that demonstrated a lot of talent,” said Simpson. “I’m always impressed in the abilities of our youth.” The jurors focused on originality, technical skill and how well the artist’s work reflected the theme of the show - Colors of Idaho. All entries will be on exhibit from April 28 thru May 7. Photography 1st place: Matt Armstrong, Timberline High School - “Night in the Desert” 2nd Place: Jessica Rodriguez, Timberline High School - “Blossomed Flower” 3rd Place: Kaitlyn O’Kelly, Timberline High School - “River Rocks” Honorable Mention 1: Sarah Thomas, Rigby High School - “Nature’s Rainbow” Honorable Mention 2: Katie Schneider, Hillcrest High School - “Guitar” Painting, Pastel & Pencil 1st place: Marissa Lords, Bonneville High School - “Wondering” 2nd Place: Taylor Allen, Hillcrest High School - “Watercolor Barns” 3rd Place: Shae Sullivan, Bonneville High School - “The Old Neighbor’s Truck” Honorable Mention 1: Shalee Haroldson, Bonneville High School - “Glimpse of Wilderness” Honorable Mention 2: Katie Mathis, Snake River High School - “Mr. Potato Head” The Grand Prize winner that will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol is Marissa Lords from Bonneville High School artwork titled “Wondering” and her art teacher is Dale Mortimer
04.18.2011	“Following on the heels of his election, President Obama claimed he wanted to begin a serious conversation with Republicans that could lead to bipartisan consensus on issues facing our nation. At the 2010 Republican retreat in Baltimore, he asked; “At what point can we have a serious conversation about Medicare and its long-term liability, or a serious conversation about Social Security or a serious conversation about budget and debt where we’re not simply trying to position ourselves politically? That's what I'm committed to doing.” “If only he had meant what he said. “After putting out an annual budget two months ago that did absolutely nothing to address the deficit threatening our nation’s future, on Thursday President Obama made a half-hearted attempt at a 180, putting forth an un-detailed deficit reduction plan in response to Chairman Paul Ryan’s FY2012 budget. He also completely reversed his previous commitment to finding bipartisan consensus, calling Mr. Ryan’s plan un-American and dishonest, and, incredibly, claiming that Republicans are committed not to deficit reduction but to pitting ‘children with autism or Down syndrome’ against ‘every millionaire and billionaire in our society.’ “Americans have grown tired of the constant bickering, politicking, and gridlock that have defined their government for the last several years. They know that the deficit is the greatest threat our nation faces, and they are ready to have an honest look at all possible solutions. “We need to have this conversation now. Let’s ignore the politically divisive and patently false claims that one side wants to ‘throw the elderly or poor under the bus,’ or that the other side wants to ‘weaken our national defense and embolden terrorists.’ This debate is too important to get bogged down with that kind of rhetoric. “That said, the differences between President Obama’s plan and House Republicans’ plan to tackle the debt are vast. The House Republican plan reduces the deficit by $4.4 trillion by cutting $6.2 trillion over the next ten years and lays out a path to pay off the national debt. President Obama’s plan postpones any spending cuts until after 2013, after his reelection campaign. The House Republican plan prevents President Obama’s pending tax increases and reforms our outdated and complicated tax code. President Obama would raise taxes by more than $1 trillion. The House Republican plan reforms our ailing Medicare program so that it will be there for future generations without impacting the current benefits of anyone 55 or older. These programs are crucially important, but they are going bankrupt. They are also the main drivers of our debt. President Obama’s plan offers no substantive solutions to this looming problem. “The American people are demanding real solutions to our debt crisis, and we need a plan that offers more than partisan platitudes. While the Republican plan may not be perfect, it is a first step toward facing down our challenges.”
04.18.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has joined a large, bipartisan group of congressional leaders in expressing concern about guidance put out by the Environment Protection Agency and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers that would change the definition of waters subject to the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act. Simpson is Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the EPA. In December 2010, EPA and the Corps sent draft “Clean Water Protection Guidance” to the Office of Management and Budget for regulatory review. By the agencies’ own admission, this “Guidance” will substantively change federal policy with respect to which waters fall under the jurisdiction of the Clean Water Act and significantly increase the scope of the federal government’s power to regulate waters. “In the West, water is critical to our way of life. Allowing the federal government to claim jurisdiction over state waters would have a devastating impact on rural communities throughout our state and the food supply throughout our nation,” said Simpson. “The ‘Guidance’ substantively changes the policy of both the EPA and the Corps of Engineers and appears to short-circuit the legislative process, something that would have damaging impacts on communities, farms, ranches, and businesses throughout Idaho.” The letter, signed by the 170 Members of Congress, states, “By developing this ‘Guidance,’ the Agencies have ignored calls from state agencies and environmental groups, among others, to proceed through the normal rulemaking procedures, and have avoided consulting with the States, which are the Agencies’ partners in implementing the Clean Water Act.”
04.15.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior Member on the House Budget Committee, joined his Republican colleagues in passing H.Con.Res. 34 with a final vote of 235-193. This budget, named Path to Prosperity, is the first and only proposal offered that lays out a path to a balanced budget and ultimately eliminates the national debt by fundamentally reforming entitlement programs. “I was glad to see my Republican colleagues unite behind this budget. It is the first serious proposal in Congress to tackle the biggest issues facing our country: the national debt, our outdated tax code, and our ailing entitlement programs,” said Simpson. “It fundamentally strengthens and secures Medicare and Medicaid for future generations but does not alter the benefits for those in or near retirement. House Republicans are leading the way with this tough but fair proposal.” The Senate will act next by putting out its own FY2012 budget, then the difference between the two will be reconciled before a final budget is passed.
04.14.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1473. This legislation provides the largest spending cut in history for the federal government and contains Simpson’s language to delist wolves and defund Department of Interior’s Wild Lands initiative. “Congress has the constitutional responsibility to fund government operations, and choosing not to do so would have been a failure of leadership. It is important to recognize the sea change in public debate about spending has been taken up by Congress. Just a year ago the conversation was about the government’s growing appetite for spending. Today we passed a bill that cut more in spending than any other single bill in our nation’s history. We still have a long way to go to address the deficit crisis facing our nation, but passage of H.R. 1473 is an important step in the right direction. “This bill makes $40 billion in real reductions in government spending, including a 16% cut in funding for the EPA, which is under my subcommittee’s jurisdiction. It also includes some provisions that are vital to Idaho, including language to remove wolves from the endangered species list and a provision to defund the Department of the Interior’s controversial Wild Lands policy. With these provisions, Idahoans are better equipped to make the best decisions for their families, communities, ranches, and businesses. I want to commend Speaker Boehner and Chairman Rogers for crafting a remarkable bill that ensures that the government continues to serve the American people and puts us squarely on the path to fiscal responsibility."
04.12.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement today regarding language providing for the delisting of the Northern Rocky Mountain wolf population in western states that is included in H.R. 1473, the FY2011 Continuing Resolution. H.R. 1473 will be considered by the House and Senate later this week. Simpson is Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. “I am confident that this language gets us closer to our ultimate goal, which is seeing the entire Northern Rocky Mountain wolf population taken off the endangered species list and managed exclusively by the states,” said Simpson. “Not only do wolf populations in the west far exceed recovery goals, but without proper management they have become so robust that they are adversely impacting other wildlife populations in the region and are spilling into other states not in the original recovery area. This language takes an important first step by allowing for a wolf hunt this year in Idaho and Montana and allowing Wyoming to move closer to developing an approved state management plan.” Simpson’s language overturns the August 2010 decision by a district court in Montana to put wolves in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, and Utah back on the endangered species list, in spite of the fact that these populations have met and exceeded recovery goals. H.R. 1473 directs the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to reissue its 2009 decision to delist wolves in Idaho and Montana and allows for state management, including managed hunts, in those states this year. The language also protects the ability of the state of Wyoming to negotiate its own state management plan, which, once approved, would allow the Fish and Wildlife Service to delist the entire Northern Rocky Mountain population. The language comes on the heels of a decision this weekend by District Court Judge Molloy to reject a proposed settlement between environmental groups and the federal government that would have restored state management of wolves in Idaho and Montana. Judge Molloy’s decision means wolves will remain on the federally protected list indefinitely without congressional action. “Judge Molloy’s decision has left little doubt that without the passage of my language wolves would remain under unnecessary federal protection indefinitely,” said Simpson. “If the courts are incapable of recognizing when a species if fully recovered, then Congress will have to make that determination for them. I am glad to see Congress confirm the original intent of the endangered species act by moving to return to state control the management of a species that has met and surpassed even the most optimistic recovery goals.”
04.12.2011	Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement today regarding language he included in H.R. 1473, the final budget bill for fiscal year 2011, that would prohibit the Department of Interior from using taxpayer funding to carry out its controversial Wild Lands initiative. The Secretarial Order, which was put out shortly before Christmas, directs the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to designate BLM lands with wilderness characteristics as “Wild Lands” and manage them accordingly, and Simpson has expressed grave concern that the initiative will increase the number of lawsuits filed against the agency and make it more difficult to manage public lands. “The longer this initiative has been out in the public, the more concerns I hear about the impact it will have on ranching, energy production, recreation, and even the BLM’s own ability to manage their lands,” said Simpson. “To that list, I would add my own deep concern that with this initiative, the Department has overstepped its authority. Only Congress has the authority to create new land designations, and I intend to restore that authority by including this provision in the CR.” Simpson is the Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Department of Interior, including the BLM.
04.12.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, made historic cuts to funding for agencies under his jurisdiction that were included in H.R. 1473, the final continuing resolution for fiscal year 2011. H.R. 1473 cuts nearly $40 billion in federal spending, the largest non-defense funding reduction in our nation’s history and the biggest budget cuts since World War II. Agencies under Simpson’s jurisdiction were cut by $2.62 billion, a cut of over 8% compared to current funding levels. Cuts to the EPA in H.R. 1473 represent 61% of the subcommittee’s reduction. “The Obama Administration has dumped money into the EPA over the past two years, and what the American people have seen as a result is a slew of new regulations pouring out of the agency,” said Simpson. “These cuts give us the opportunity to take a close look at how the agency is spending its dramatic increases in funding and look at whether the regulations it is putting out are appropriate and within the limits of the authority Congress has given the EPA.” H.R. 1473 includes other significant cuts to programs under Simpson’s jurisdiction, including a 33% reduction for federal land acquisition and a $49 million reduction for climate change funding. In the bill, Simpson focused on the core mission programs of agencies, ensuring that agencies like the BLM, the Forest Service, and the National Parks Service can continue to carry out fundamental operations that serve the American people. “Nearly everyone will be able to find something they don’t like in H.R. 1473, but at the end of the day we all know that we simply can’t continue to spend money that we don’t have,” said Simpson. “By making historic cuts to federal programs for the remainder of the current fiscal year, Republicans have made it clear that they are serious about getting our deficit under control and getting our economy going again. We all know that reducing discretionary spending by nearly $40 billion is only the first step in restoring fiscal responsibility, but it is a step in the right direction.” The Interior and Environment portion of the bill also includes language returning management of Northern Rocky Mountain wolf populations back to states with approved management plans and language limiting the use of funds for the Department of the Interior’s “Wild Lands” policy.
04.07.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Budget Committee, joined his Chairman Paul Ryan in passing the Fiscal Year 2012 budget resolution out of committee late last night. The committee worked all day Wednesday and into the night crafting and debating portions of the budget, which was unveiled Tuesday, and cuts $6.2 trillion over its ten year window. “This really is an extraordinary accomplishment in budgeting,” said Simpson. “It is a crucial first step in the process of reforming our entitlements and ending our debt crisis because it provides a plan by which Congress can stabilize our long term budget outlook and end the practice of run-away spending in Washington.” The budget resolution, known as the Path to Prosperity, not only reduces yearly spending to below 2008 levels, but it reforms Medicare and Medicaid without affecting the benefits of those in or near retirement, forces bipartisan discussions on securing the future of the Social Security system, reforms the tax code, repeals Obama’s health care law and reforms and privatizes Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. These reforms create enormous savings. “The House Budget Committee has passed a Resolution that tackles the problem head on. This has not been the case in recent years; in fact, last year, the Democratic Majority did not even propose a budget, let alone pass one. Republicans have committed themselves to taking the difficult, sometimes unpopular steps needed to fix the real problems our country faces. I am proud to be a part of this endeavor.”
04.07.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted to cut federal spending by $12 billion in one week, ensure that troops in harm’s way continue to get paid, and prevent an unnecessary government shutdown. The House of Representatives voted 247-181 for H.R. 1363, legislation to provide funding for the military for the remainder of the fiscal year and save taxpayers $12 billion while final negotiations continue on a long-term bill funding government operations for the rest of the fiscal year. “My colleague from across the aisle says that this is an ideological position on which Republicans will not yield, and he is right—our ideological position is that this country is in a fiscal crisis, and we have got to get this house back in order,” said Simpson from the House floor. “If that’s the position for which we’re being criticized, I welcome that criticism.” “No one wants a government shut down, and there’s no reason for one. The smart thing to do would be to pass this one-week CR that saves taxpayers $12 billion in a single week and meets the dual goals of addressing the fiscal crisis that we’re in and averting a government shutdown,” Simpson continued. “It also funds our troops for the rest of the fiscal year, and it enables our congressional leaders and the White House to dot the i’s and cross the t’s on the final spending bill for FY11 so that we can clean up this mess and move on to the real budget battle in FY12. That would be the smart thing to do.” H.R. 1363 provides $151.76 billion in funding for the Department of Defense through the remainder of the fiscal year, which constitutes a 1.4% increase over current levels and is equal to the funding provided to DOD in H.R. 1. The bill reduces discretionary funding for non-Defense programs by $13.1 billion. It also includes language preventing Guantanamo Bay detainees from being transferred into the U.S., as well as language prohibiting federal and local funding to be used to provide abortions in the District of Columbia. “Congress has the constitutional responsibility to fund government operations. Failing to do so is not a smart political strategy, it is a failure of leadership,” said Simpson. “This is why I am frustrated and disappointed that Senator Harry Reid has refused to pass a long-term continuing resolution in the Senate and negotiate in good faith with the House. The only way to interpret his refusal to get serious about finishing the budget is that he wants to shut the government down. The American people elected us to lead and to make the hard decisions needed to get our budget on track, but Senator Reid has made it clear that he is not interested in being a leader.” H.R. 1363 will now be considered by the U.S. Senate. In order to prevent a government shutdown, the bill must be passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President by tomorrow, when the current continuing resolution expires.
04.07.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised House passage of legislation to limit the EPA’s regulatory authority. H.R. 910, the Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011, clarifies that EPA does not have authority to regulate greenhouses gases under the Clean Air Act. Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and the Environment Appropriation Subcommittee that oversees EPA’s budget, is a cosponsor of the bill. “To me, it is pretty clear the Obama Administration’s climate change regulations circumvent the legislative process and take the decision about how to address our nation’s energy future out of the hands of the American people,” said Simpson. “The Administration is basically trying to use the EPA’s authority under the Clean Air Act to force Congress to pass cap and trade legislation that is widely opposed by the American people, all without regard for the impact that it would have on our still-fragile economy. “ H.R. 910 responds to the EPA’s decision that greenhouse gases endanger public health and welfare and subsequent regulations put out by the agency to regulate greenhouses gas emissions from stationary sources. The bill includes a number of exemptions to ensure that existing vehicle emission standards and other programs continue to operate, but it prevents the EPA from imposing regulations that would constitute a significant energy tax on American families and businesses. “Businesses in Idaho have made it clear that they cannot afford to invest in job creation with burdensome, expensive regulations hanging in the balance,” said Simpson. “It is imperative that Congress clarifies that the Clean Air Act is not the appropriate statute under which to regulate climate change to provide the certainty that job creators need to get our economy going again. This is why I included language in H.R. 1 to prevent EPA from using funding to implement greenhouse gas regulations and why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 910.” H.R. 910 was passed by the House of Representatives this afternoon by a 255-172 vote.
04.05.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a senior Member on the House Budget Committee, joined Chairman Paul Ryan and other members in releasing a robust budget for fiscal year 2012. This budget, named Path to Prosperity, is the first and only proposal offered that lays out a path to a balanced budget and ultimately eliminates the national debt by fundamentally reforming entitlement programs. “This Republican budget takes on the biggest challenges facing our country and offers real solutions that will encourage economic growth and provide stability,” said Simpson. “While we continue to wait for President Obama and Senator Harry Reid to offer up their budget solutions, the House Budget Committee is taking responsibility and leading the way by confronting the drivers of the debt.” The House Budget Committee’s proposal reduces taxes and simplifies the tax code. It addresses entitlement spending, and it spurs economic growth. “We’ve done more than just cut spending, we have provided a blueprint of how to achieve the financial goals that Americans want and provided a long term plan to return our government and country to stable footing,” said Simpson. Specifically the House Budget: Cuts spending by $6.2 trillion over the next decade compared to Obama’s budget request; Cuts $179 billion next year below Obama’s requested level; Reduces non-security discretionary spending to below 2008 levels; Balances the federal budget over the long term and puts the government on track to pay off the national debt; Eliminates the $800 billion tax increase in Obama’s health care law and rejects the President’s $1.5 trillion tax increase proposed in his FY12 Budget request; Simplifies the tax code for individuals, families and businesses by capping rates and incentivizing growth, savings and investment; Spurs economic growth which will create 1 million new private-sector jobs next year; Reforms and repairs our broken Medicare and Medicaid systems by providing flexibility to states and giving individuals the opportunity to choose the plan they want while not effecting the current benefits of anyone over age 55; Repeals Obama’s Health Care law and reforms and privatizes Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Read the entire Republican’s budget proposal, Path to Prosperity, or visit the House Budget Committee’s website to get more information. You may also watch Chairman Ryan explain the proposal in this video.
03.31.2011	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl R. Labrador today supported legislation to provide certainty on how pesticide application should be regulated. H.R. 872, the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act of 2011, responds to a misguided federal court ruling that would have added an additional layer of duplicative regulations on pesticide application near waterways. In 2009, the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals overturned the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s long-standing policy that application of pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) did not also require a permit under the Clean Water Act. H.R. 872 overturns the court decision and clarifies Congress’s intent that existing FIFRA regulations are adequate for regulating aquatic pesticide use. Both Simpson and Labrador are cosponsors of the legislation. “Congress never intended for pesticide applications that are already regulated under FIFRA to also require permits under the Clean Water Act. Yet because the court did not interpret congressional intent correctly, we must act now to ensure that farmers, ranchers, and forest managers—as well as mosquito abatement districts and local governments—won’t face unnecessary and duplicative regulations that would make it more difficult to do their jobs,” said Congressman Simpson during debate on the bill last night. “Everyone here supports protecting our water supply from polluters who are acting in violation of our nation’s environmental laws and regulations. But adding another layer of regulation by requiring NPDS permits for application of these pesticides doesn’t make them safer—it only piles unnecessary paperwork on top of day-to-day operations for small businesses, farmers, and local governments.” “The passage of this bill represents a step forward toward certainty for many in the agricultural community,” said Congressman Labrador. “Mr. Simpson and I, along with a bipartisan mix of our colleagues from around the country, have spoken with one voice to prevent yet another burdensome regulation from stifling economic activity in rural America.” H.R. 872 received broad bipartisan support in committee and passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 291-130. Congressman Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, spoke in favor of H.R. 872 during floor debate last night. To view his statement on the House floor, click here.
03.31.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today chaired the House Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee hearing discussing the budget for Department of Energy’s Office of Nuclear Energy and the budget for Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Both the Acting Assistant Secretary of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Dr. Pete Lyons, and the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Gregory Jaczko, testified before the Subcommittee. Simpson used the hearing to explore the lessons learned in the aftermath of Japan’s tsunami. Both Jaczko and Lyons stated for the record that although there are lessons to be learned from the disaster in Japan, U.S. reactors are currently safe. In addition, the NRC is conducting additional reviews of all licensed nuclear power plants and DOE is reviewing all of its licenses, including Idaho’s Advanced Test Reactor. The hearing also highlighted safety improvements going forward with passive safety technology. Passively safe reactors rely on gravity and pressurized tanks, thus eliminating the need for electricity and operator action. Later, Simpson grilled Jaczko over the handling of Yucca Mountain and his decision to terminate licensing activities despite the clear intent of Congress that those activities move forward. “I firmly believe that you are acting outside the law,” Simpson told Jaczko. When Jaczko began defending the commission’s action by referencing provisions in the President's budget that do not have the effect of law, Simpson cut him short and responded, “Commission approval of a budget doesn’t mean diddly - what matters is what passes Congress.” Simpson has actively opposed attempts by the Obama Administration to terminate preparations of Yucca Mountain as our nation's permanent repository for spent nuclear fuel and high-level nuclear waste. He has repeatedly acted to support continuation of Yucca Mountain's development and used his position on the House Appropriations Committee to ensure adequate funding for activities at the site. Following the hearing, Simpson expressed his dismay with the actions of the Obama Administration and Chairman Jazko in relation to Yucca Mountain. “It doesn't take a doctorate in political science to recognize that this Administration's actions to close down Yucca Mountain are driven more by politics and a desire to please Nevada Senator Harry Reid than they are by science or what is best for taxpayers,” said Simpson. “Chairman Jaczko is purposefully defying the will of Congress and acting unilaterally to waste billions of taxpayers dollars. It is very frustrating to me and to most Members of Congress that this type of manipulation is happening at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and we intend to make sure Chairman Jaczko is held to account for his actions and that the requirements of federal law are fulfilled.”
03.18.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today responded to the settlement agreement reached between environmental groups and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to delist wolves in Idaho and Montana. The groups, the agency, and states have been involved in ongoing litigation over last year’s decision by Judge Molloy to reinstate Endangered Species Act protection of the gray wolves in the northern Rocky Mountains. The agreement must be approved by the federal court in order to go into effect. Simpson included language in H.R. 1, legislation continuing operations for the federal government for the remainder of the fiscal year, to overturn Judge Molloy’s decision and return management of wolf populations in the region to states with approved management plans, putting pressure on environmental groups to settle. “There is no doubt in my mind that the states, not the federal government, should be managing these animals,” said Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “The Fish and Wildlife Service made the right decision in delisting wolves and returning management authority to the states. Idaho and Montana have effective, approved plans in place for managing wolves and should regain control over management. “I am hopeful that this proposal moves us closer to that goal, and I deeply appreciate Secretary Salazar’s tenacity in finding a long-term solution to this problem. I am concerned, however, that this settlement could have a negative impact on states like Oregon, Washington, and Utah, which were not part of the original reintroduction area. Wolf populations have grown so robustly that they are spilling over into other states, and those states should continue to have the flexibility to manage these populations. “This settlement proposal makes it clear to me that those who have forced wolves back on the endangered species list realize that their position is not defensible,” said Simpson. “They also realize that if they continue to push to have wildlife management decisions made by the courts, Congress will step in. The House has already done so by including language in H.R. 1 to overturn Judge Molloy’s decision, and I will continue to push to have this measure signed into law.”
03.16.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today sought assurances from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service that existing recreational activities on Lake Lowell would be protected in a new Comprehensive Management Plan for Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge. Simpson, who is Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, expressed his concern about this issue to the Service’s Deputy Director Dan Ashe and Acting Director Rowan Gould during a Subcommittee hearing on the Obama Administration’s Budget for Fiscal Year 2012. The US Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) is in the process of creating a new Comprehensive Management Plan for Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge. The Refuge is co-located with Lake Lowell, a man-made irrigation reservoir that has been used over the course of the last century for a wide array of recreational uses. As part of its consideration of a new management plan, the USFWS has refused to rule out the potential elimination or curtailment of existing recreational activities on the Lake. “Quite frankly, it is very frustrating to me that the Fish and Wildlife Service continues to cause great concern among my constituents and the people of Idaho by leaving open the possibility of ending recreational uses on Lake Lowell,” said Simpson following the hearing. “That is why it was important to put this issue on the table with the Deputy Director and Acting Director and let him know what I am hearing from the people of Idaho on this matter. Idahoans are upset, and rightly so, that an inflexible federal government would even consider banning recreational uses on any lake, much less one that is man made.” Simpson brought this situation to the attention of the Deputy Director in response to a letter he received from Idaho State Senators Patti Anne Lodge, Curt McKenzie, John McGee and Melinda Smyser seeking his help. “We asked Congressman Simpson to get involved in this issue because he has a direct line of communication with the agency through his role in writing its budget and because our constituents are extremely concerned with the continued uncertainty surrounding future activities on the Lake,” said Senator John McGee. “I am grateful that the Congressman is pursuing our concerns with the agency and look forward to working with him to ensure recreational activities on the Lake Lowell are protected well into the future.” In response to Simpson’s questions, Gould said that the Service had no intention of going through a process without recognizing the value of recreational uses and committed to working with the Chairman to make sure that the final plan addresses the concerns of the community. Following the hearing, Simpson pledged to continue working with the four Senators, the recreational community, and the rest of the Idaho Congressional Delegation to protect recreational uses on Lake Lowell. “The Fish and Wildlife Service understood the concerns I expressed today, and I am hopeful that they will act accordingly to ensure recreational uses on Lake Lowell continue,” said Simpson. “But if they did not understand my message, I am committed to doing whatever is necessary to make sure traditional uses on Lake Lowell are protected.” ####
03.14.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Committee, questioned Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell regarding a major shift in priorities for the Forest Service. The hearing gave Simpson and other subcommittee members the budgetary opportunity to examine President Obama’s budget request for the U.S. Forest Service for FY2012. “I recognize the value of providing opportunities for people to connect with our forests, National Parks, and amazing natural resources, but it doesn’t make sense to me that we would dramatically increase land acquisition instead of focusing our limited resources on desperately needed efforts to improve forest health,” said Simpson. “At a time when our forests are significantly overstocked and unhealthy, the Forest Service proposes reducing spending on hazardous fuels, forest health, grazing, and fire suppression. Many of these programs support private jobs in rural communities—from ranching and forestry to recreation and wilderness management—and should be a priority.” Chairman Simpson and Chief Tidwell discussed the value of responsible land use in the West to forest management and the impact of the President’s budget request on rural communities. When Simpson expressed concern about the impact of closing grazing allotments in the Payette National Forest, the Chief pointed out that the livestock industry provides enormous benefits to wildlife habitat and ecosystem management. Similarly, Simpson expressed appreciation that the Forest Service included funding for the Secure Rural Schools program in the FY12 budget request, but he was concerned that the Administration’s proposal robs from other accounts critical to rural communities in order to do so. The program’s authorization expires on September 30. “The Secure Rural Schools program is critical for many rural counties in the west,” said Simpson, “but I am concerned that this proposal moves this program from mandatory to discretionary spending, essentially taking funding away from fire and hazardous fuels reduction, upon which counties in Idaho also depend.” During the hearing, Simpson also discussed his concern about the Forest Service’s cost recovery program, ongoing travel management planning, and efforts to consolidate budget line items.
03.10.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, questioned BLM Director Bob Abbey regarding a number of issues, including the Wild Horse and Burro program, grazing on public lands, and the Administration’s new “Wild Lands” policy. Simpson’s subcommittee examined the President’s FY2012 budget request for the Bureau of Land Management. One of Simpson’s biggest criticisms of the budget request is the fact that it diverts funding from land management accounts in order to fully fund land acquisition accounts. “With the current budget crisis facing our country, I find it puzzling that the BLM requests $50 million for land acquisition and $1 billion for the new America’s Great Outdoors initiative when it has difficulty managing the land it already holds,” said Chairman Simpson. “I’m deeply concerned that this proposal will exacerbate an already out-of-control problem facing the BLM, and that is the increasing cost of litigation. When you shift resources from land management to acquisitions, you are unable to provide the land managers in your field offices with the resources they need to make environmentally sound decisions, leaving the door wide open to groups looking for any opportunity to sue.” Chairman Simpson also expressed concern about the fact that the BLM is unable to track payments that go out under the Equal Access to Justice Act, which allows those who win lawsuits against the government to recoup their legal costs. “I find it incredible that these fees come out of your budget, but you can’t track them,” said Simpson. “How can you possibly operate responsibly when you have no idea how much money is coming out of your budget to pay for lawsuits?” Simpson recently joined other Western members in requesting a study by the Government Accountability Office on payments under EAJA. During the hearing, Simpson also spoke about his frustration about the ever-increasing costs of the BLM’s Wild Horses and Burros program. The President’s budget request includes a $11 million increase over current funding, and Simpson questioned whether the agency would be able to put the program on a sustainable path in the future.
03.08.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who chairs the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, questioned Interior Secretary Ken Salazar regarding domestic oil production, the cost of environmental litigation, and the Secretary’s controversial “Wild Lands” initiative. The oversight hearing gave Chairman Simpson and other members of the subcommittee the opportunity to examine the President’s FY2012 budget request for the Department of the Interior. Simpson again expressed deep concern about the Obama Administration’s Wild Lands initiative. “It’s no secret that Western Members of both parties—including myself—have very strong objections to your Wild Lands Secretarial Order granting the BLM the authority to identify and manage lands in the West as wilderness,” said Chairman Simpson. “Only Congress has the authority to designate wilderness, and I can guarantee you that any subcommittee bill this year will include a funding prohibition relating to the Wild Lands policy, whether it is included in the underlying bill or added on the floor with an amendment.” Simpson included language in the recently-passed continuing resolution prohibiting the Department from using funding to implement the Wild Lands policy. “You say that this is intended to reduce the number of lawsuits you face, but I’m afraid it’s only going to increase lawsuits,” he argued. “We are already spending far too much taxpayer money in courts, money that we should be spending managing these lands so that they can be enjoyed by the public.” During the hearing, Secretary Salazar also addressed questions regarding efforts to recover the Rocky Mountain wolf population. He stated that it is the Department’s view that the Rocky Mountain wolf species has been recovered, and he commended Simpson’s efforts to return management of the species to states like Idaho with approved management plans. Following the hearing with Secretary Salazar, Chairman Simpson has scheduled oversight hearings with agency heads at the Department. Tomorrow the subcommittee will examine the budget request for the National Park Service, and Thursday both the BLM Director and the Director of the Office of Surface Mining will testify before the subcommittee. To watch video of Chairman Simpson at the hearing, visit his YouTube website.
03.04.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee supports National Ground Water Awareness Week. If you own a household water well, you depend on groundwater. If you don’t have a water well, you still depend on groundwater in many ways. Either way, here are some things you should know about groundwater during National Ground Water Awareness Week, March 6-12. Groundwater makes up more than 90 percent of the available fresh water in the world. Because it is so widespread, nearly 45 percent of Americans rely on ground water, either from private wells or community water systems. Not only that, ground water supplies 53.5 billion gallons a day for agricultural irrigation. It also feeds 492 billion gallons a day to surface water bodies such as rivers, lakes and streams. “The occasion of National Ground Water Awareness Week provides the perfect time for all of us to consider the ways in which we use water and contemplate how we might help conserve it,” said Simpson. “The National Ground Water Association has long been a tireless advocate for fresh water resources and I greatly appreciate the work they do. Their list of “best practices” is something everyone should read and utilize in their daily lives.” If you own a well, consider getting an annual well maintenance check and water test. Private well owners are responsible for making sure their water supply is safe, so regular maintenance and water testing for bacteria, nitrates and anything else of local concern are important. If you don’t own a well, you still have a responsibility to protect groundwater. Improper storage or disposal of hazardous household substances can pollute groundwater. These include household cleaners, herbicides, pesticides, antifreeze, fertilizer, paint, paint thinner, oil and other chemicals. What you dump on the ground, pour down the drain or throw in the trash could end up in the groundwater. Store hazardous household substances in secure places using proper containers. If possible, dispose of such substances at hazardous waste drop-off sites. Use water wisely, whether you own a well or not. There is no shortage of groundwater nationally, but demand on a local or regional basis can create water scarcity. It only makes sense not to waste water. Fix leaky toilets or faucets to save thousands of gallons of water a year. Use water-efficient appliances. Use low-flow shower heads and water-efficient toilets. Avoid wasting water on the driveway, sidewalk or street when watering outside. Run the dishwasher only when it’s full. Consider other ways to recycle or conserve water. Learn more visit NGWA’s Ground Water Awareness Week Web page or its Web site for well owners, www.wellowner.org.
03.04.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, questioned Environmental Protection Administrator Lisa Jackson regarding the EPA’s budget request for FY2012. Simpson also grilled Administrator Jackson regarding what many perceive as the EPA’s regulatory overreach and the impact that the agency’s actions are having on the economy. Simpson questioned the agency’s decision to reduce the EPA’s budget on the backs of states, which are already struggling to balance their own budgets, as state grants have been reduced by 22% while EPA operations and research budgets are reduced by only 2%-4%. “This is not the blueprint for reduced federal spending and debt reduction that the American people and congressional Republicans are demanding,” said Simpson. “In stark contrast, we cut more spending out of the SRFs in the House-passed full year continuing resolution than has been proposed in your entire 2012 budget. The demand for 2012 is simple: cut more and regulate less.” Simpson also defended provisions included in H.R. 1, the continuing resolution (CR) that reduces funding for the EPA by 30% for the remainder of the current fiscal year, which would have limited funding for what he called EPA’s “litany of overreaching regulations.” Simpson pushed for language to be included in the bill to limit EPA’s ability to regulate greenhouse gases, as well as language to prohibit funding for efforts to expand EPA’s jurisdiction over state waters. In addition, during consideration on the House floor over 20 amendments limiting funding for EPA were accepted by the House. “It should be up to Congress, not the Administration, to determine whether and how to regulate greenhouse gases,” said Simpson. “We put a hold on all of these regulations in the House-passed CR in order to relieve the burden on industry and to give our authorizers the opportunity to address these issues in a more comprehensive fashion this year. The fact that so many amendments regarding the EPA were offered to the CR and passed so overwhelmingly makes it clear that there is a problem with the way the EPA is cranking out regulations, and I think these funding limitations provide us with an important roadmap for going forward in the 112th Congress.” ###
03.03.2011	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raul Labrador joined their colleagues in passing H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act. H.R.4 will repeal the IRS expansion of information reporting requirements for payments of $600 or more to corporations included as part of the Democrat health care plan. The bill passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with a final vote of 314-112. “The entire health care bill needs to be repealed, but while we wait for the U.S. Supreme Court to bring the case forward and rule on its constitutionality, this requirement must be repealed immediately,” said Simpson. “The Democrat health care bill contains expensive and burdensome regulations on small businesses that they cannot afford. We should repeal this excessive reporting provision immediately and continue to work on full repeal so we may focus on promoting measures that would encourage small businesses to grow and create jobs.” “The repeal of the 1099 health care reporting mandate closes a chapter on one of the more illogical, poorly thought out elements of a thousand page bill that no one had read a year ago. If someone had taken the time to read it before voting on it, they would have realized this provision of the president’s health care law created a mountainous bureaucratic burden on all existing small businesses and a crippling obstacle for any new start up business in trying to comply with it,” said Labrador. “This single provision stands as a prime example of an administration that does not understand business nor has any experience in creating the necessary environment in which businesses can create jobs.” The Internal Revenue Service’s own National Taxpayer Advocate highlighted several problems with this requirement in a recent report stating that the new reporting burden, particularly as it falls on small businesses, may turn out to be disproportionate as compared with any resulting improvement in tax compliance. The report further stated that small businesses that lack the capacity to track customer purchases may lose customers, leaving the economy with more large national vendors and less local competition. The National Federation of Independent Business says this provision, which was created without any input or discussion from the small business community, will have a “direct negative impact on small businesses.”
03.02.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announces the addition of a congressional fellow, a new hire, and several promotions within his Washington, D.C., staff. Dr. Peter D. Friedman is on sabbatical from the University of Massachusetts and is currently serving as a Congressional Fellow in Simpson’s office. Friedman is the Chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Massachusetts Dartmouth, where he has been a faculty member since September 2002. Friedman was also a nuclear submarine officer in the United States Navy where he served on two nuclear submarines, including the Engineering Department Head aboard the USS Hyman G. Rickover and a mechanical engineering professor at the United States Naval Academy. He received his BS and MS in Mechanical Engineering from The Georgia Institute of Technology and his PhD in Mechanical Engineering from The Johns Hopkins University. “Pete’s resume speaks for itself,” said Simpson. “It is a privilege to have him join our team this year and the people of Idaho will benefit from his experience. His interest in advancing a science-based, forward-looking energy policy makes him an excellent fit to handle issues pertaining to energy, defense, and homeland security,” Simpson also hired Solara Linehan to be his new Legislative Assistant. She will oversee policy issues related to finance and banking, foreign affairs, agriculture, veterans’ affairs, judiciary, telecommunications, and government reform. Linehan has deep Idaho roots and is part of a fifth-generation family farm. She received her BS from Lewis-Clark State and continued her education at Georgetown University where she obtained her graduate certificate in International Business Management. Before joining the Simpson office, Linehan worked for then-Idaho Congressman C.L. “Butch” Otter, and most recently served as an associate at Deloitte. “Solara’s knowledge and experience in agriculture are exceptional and her educational background in business will be an asset as she moves forward handling these important issues,” said Simpson. “I am happy to welcome her to the Simpson team.” MJ Henshaw is adding Legislative Correspondent to her duties as a staff assistant. Henshaw joined the Simpson office over a year ago and works tirelessly to ensure constituents needs are met. She attended Utah State University where she received her BS in Journalism. Before joining the Simpson team, Henshaw held an internship in Congressman Zach Wamp’s office and served Idahoans while working in Senator Criag’s office. “Handling constituent services is a very important job for a congressional office and MJ performs this task with great skill and talent,” said Simpson. “I am thrilled to expand her duties to include legislative issues in order to better serve Idaho constituents.” Nathan Greene was promoted to Senior Legislative Assistant and will oversee issues pertaining to the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, as well as the Budget Committee, both of which Congressman Simpson is a member. “For several years, Nate has superbly served Idahoans,” said Simpson. “I’m confident that his knowledge and experience will continue to pay off as he advances to new challenges within our office. Both the House Budget Committee and the LHHS Appropriations Subcommittee have enormous tasks ahead, and I’m pleased that Nate is eager to address these important issues.”
03.01.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today began his hearing schedule for the 112th Congress by holding the first of a series of oversight hearings on the agencies funded through the subcommittee’s bill. This morning’s hearing focused on management challenges at the Department of the Interior. “Oversight is not one of the most exciting things that Congress does, but it is one of the most important,” said Simpson. “At a time of record budget deficits, we have a responsibility to carefully scrutinize how every taxpayer dollar is spent. Hearings like the one held today provide subcommittee members with the information we need to write a subcommittee budget for fiscal year 2012 that reduces government spending and forces agencies to become more efficient.” Simpson has scheduled over 20 budget oversight hearings over the next two months. Tomorrow the subcommittee will hold a hearing on management challenges at the Environmental Protection Agency, at which representatives of the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the EPA’s Inspector General will testify. A similar hearing regarding challenges facing the U.S. Forest Service is scheduled for next week.
02.19.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his Republican colleagues early this morning in supporting H.R. 1, legislation that cuts federal spending by over $100 billion for the remainder of the current fiscal year. The House debated this legislation under an open process for the past four days, during which nearly 600 amendments were offered. “This continuing resolution is the largest spending reduction in our nation’s history,” said Simpson. “These cuts and the open process under which they were considered represent a turning point for our nation, as Congress begins to respond to the concerns of the American people about the size of government and the growing national deficit. Cutting spending by over $100 billion is a huge step in the right direction, but it is only the first step, and Republicans are committed to doing what it takes to reduce federal spending, balance our budget, and get our economy growing again.” As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Simpson reduced funding for the agencies under his jurisdiction by over 14%--including a 30% reduction in funding for the Environmental Protection Agency. The continuing resolution also included a number of provisions to limit EPA’s regulatory authority, including provisions to prohibit EPA from using funds to impose job-killing regulations over greenhouse gases and to usurp state authority over water. Simpson also added a provision to the bill to prevent the Department of the Interior from enacting its new “Wild Lands” policy, as well as a provision overturning a court decision last summer to put wolves back on the endangered species list. H.R. 1 was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 235 - 189.
02.18.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported an amendment to H.R. 1, the FY2011 Continuing Resolution, offered by Labor Health and Human Services-Education Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Denny Rehberg to defund the implementation of President Obama’s health care bill that was signed into law last year. The amendment passed with a final vote of 239-187. "The Democrats’ health care bill is wrong for our country,” said Simpson. “With 26 challenges to the law in various state courts, including Idaho, and the recent ruling in Florida finding the law unconstitutional, it doesn’t make sense to continue funding its implementation - especially considering the Supreme Court should ultimately strike it down. I have also supported full repeal and defunding the bill so that we can then begin passing smaller bills that enjoy bipartisan support and focus on bringing down costs for American healthcare consumers.” Simpson acknowledges the prospects for a full-scale repeal are slim because President Obama can veto any such legislation, but he will continue to work to defund the law through the appropriations process. “This amendment to the continuing resolution will make it more difficult to fund some of the programs in the health care bill that Americans have overwhelmingly rejected.”
02.15.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is spearheading an effort to undo the August 2010 ruling by Judge Molloy that put wolves back on the endangered species list. The continuing resolution (CR) under consideration by the House of Representatives this week includes a provision to overturn the court decision and ensure that it does come not before Judge Malloy again. Congressman Simpson is also an original cosponsor of H.R. 510, the Idaho and Montana Wolf Management Act of 2011, introduced by Montana Representatives Denny Rehberg, and H.R. 509, an effort to legislatively delist wolves. “I fully support efforts to take gray wolves off the endangered species list throughout the country, and it has been an honor to work with Congressman Rehberg on both H.R. 509 and H.R. 510,” said Simpson. “Until that bill can be taken up by the House, I believe we need to take advantage of the opportunity that the CR provides to overturn Judge Molloy’s decision. Not only does this provide an immediate solution to the wolf management problem in the western United States, where wolf populations have grown robust and where effective plans are in place for managing these populations, but it gives us the chance to continue working for a broader solution like the one Congressman Rehberg has proposed.” Simpson’s provision puts management of wolves back into the hands of states which had been managing wolves under approved and effective state management plans before Molloy’s decision, and it allows wolf hunts scheduled in Idaho and Montana and portions of several other states to be reinstated. “Ultimately I support complete delisting of this species, but this provision is a step in the right direction,” said Simpson. “Today the choice is between preventing state management by keeping wolves on the endangered species list and overturning Judge Molloy’s decision so that western states can implement their wolf hunts again, so I will strongly advocate for state management in Idaho.”
02.15.2011	Today in the House Budget Committee, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned White House Budget Director Jacob Lew regarding President Obama’s fiscal year 2012 budget, which was released on Monday. Responding to claims that Obama’s budget included serious cuts and amounted to a “tough love” budget, Congressman Simpson said, “What the American people are saying is, ‘Get your fiscal house in order.’ I don’t see this budget getting our fiscal house in order. We are going to have $400 billion savings in [Obama’s] budget over ten years. You say the overall size of the budget this year is $3.73 trillion. But you only offer $40 billion in savings per year? That is around one percent in savings. That is not tough love. It is continuing the current path we are on, with no future balanced budget ever. The American people are rejecting it.” Simpson focused his questions on the size of President Obama’s budget and the need to create a balanced federal budget every year. “I’ve heard [Democrats say] that we need to make tough choices, we have to live within our means,” said Simpson. “Let me ask, is there a balance projected in this budget?” Director Lew responded, “To get to balance will require a set of decisions that are beyond what anyone is discussing right now… We’ve gone through ten years of a combination of things that have driven the deficit up, we’ve had an economic crisis, but we’ve also had decisions to not pay for what we’re doing. We now are going to have to deal with the results of that and it’s not going to be a quick process…” After the hearing Simpson said, “I am disappointed to hear that balancing the budget is not even a part of the conversation in the White House. Fortunately, it is a discussion that is happening in earnest amongst House Republicans, and some Democrats.” Simpson is a member of the House Budget Committee and is an original cosponsor of H.J.Res. 2, which would amend the U.S. Constitution to require a balanced budget every year. The bill has 194 cosponsors. The entirety of Congressman Simpson’s questions can be seen on his YouTube page.
02.11.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of H.Res. 72. The resolution directs ten House Committees to inventory and review existing, pending and proposed regulations, orders and other administrative actions or procedures by federal agencies within the committees’ jurisdiction. The committees include: Agriculture, Education and the Workforce, Energy and Commerce, Financial Services, the Judiciary, Natural Resources, Oversight and Government Reform, Small Business, Transportation and Infrastructure, and Ways and Means. “This resolution is the first step in the process toward building a more transparent and fair system,” said Congressman Simpson. “I have talked to countless Idahoans who have told me that the burdensome regulations handed down from executive agencies and put into effect without the consent of Congress are making it hard for them to create jobs and help the economy grow. We simply cannot let one branch of government run rough-shod without any system of checks and balances. There are numerous regulations that create uncertainty and increase costs for small business owners, farmers and ranchers, and Congress must have the ability to stop or reverse them.” H.Res. 72 passed the U.S. House of Representatives today with a final vote of 391-28 In addition to supporting this resolution, Congressman Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 10, the Regulations from the Executive In Need of Scrutiny Act, commonly referred to as the REINS Act. This legislation would require Congress to approve major regulations by federal agencies, including any regulation that has an impact of more than $100 million. The bill was included in the Republican Pledge to America. There have been estimates that the total costs of all regulations from federal agencies is more than $1 trillion annually, or more than $10,000 per household per year. “Each year, federal agencies issue thousands of new regulations affecting the entire American economy, thus negatively impacting job growth,” said Simpson. “Congress needs to reestablish its authority to oversee these rules and act upon them in order to reduce the burden on all businesses in order to stimulate real job growth.” H.R. 10 is currently under consideration in both the House Judiciary Committee and the House Rules Committee.
02.11.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined several of his colleagues in sending a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson today urging the Environmental Protection Agency to finalize a rule exempting milk storage facilities from the agency’s Spill, Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) regulations. Under the EPA’s current rule, milk is subject to EPA’s oil spill regulations, and if dairy producers do not comply with the EPA’s rule they will be subject to punitive damages. “Most of us don’t consider milk to be an environmental hazard,” said Simpson, who is Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee which oversees funding for the EPA. “Our nation’s dairy industry is already facing difficult challenges in this economic environment, and the last thing they need is to be saddled with burdensome regulations by an agency that is overreaching.” Last year, the EPA announced a one-year compliance extension specifically to address requirements for milk and milk product containers within EPA’s Oil Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasure program, which directs producers to have an oil spill prevention plan by November 10, 2011. While EPA has indicated that it intends to address this issue, to date a finalized rule exempting milk has not been made. In the letter to EPA, Simpson and other members strongly urge the agency to exempting milk storage facilities from this regulation. Below is the text of the letter to the EPA: February 11, 2011 Administrator Lisa P. Jackson Environmental Protection Agency Ariel Rios Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20460 RE: EPA-HQ-OPA-2008-0821 Dear Administrator Jackson: We write to you today to urge the Environmental Protection Agency to finalize a rule exempting milk storage facilities from Spill, Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure (SPCC) regulations. As you know, EPA is granted authority to administer the SPCC program in efforts to prevent oil discharges into U.S. waterways. SPCC regulations require facilities that store or use significant quantities of oil or fuel develop a prevention plan in order to prevent and contain any potential spills on site. While the lessons of the Gulf oil spill and other incidents have proven that more preventative action is needed, unfortunately, under the definition set forth by the SPCC program, milk is classified in the same category as petroleum due to its animal fat content. While this issue has been brought up before, it has failed to come to a close, and continues to loom over the heads of dairy producers who are already under economic duress. Enacted in 1995, the Edible Oil Regulatory Reform Act was intended to correct this misclassification. This legislation mandated that all federal agencies differentiate between oils, animal fats, and grease in its regulations. However, 15 years later, the issue that this law was intended to rectify still exists, exemplified by the classification of milk in the same category as oil. On January 15, 2009, EPA announced its proposed rulemaking for exempting milk containers from SPCC requirements. While the EPA has extended the compliance deadline specifically to address SPCC requirement for milk and milk product containers, the agency has failed to finalize the suggested exemption over the last two years. This lack of clarity has created great concern and uncertainty within the dairy industry, whom all the while have been regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. It is evident that extending SPCC regulations to the dairy industry is excessive, overreaching, and unnecessary. We ask that EPA move immediately to finalize the proposed rule that would permanently exempt certain milk containers and associated piping and appurtenance from the Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure program. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request, and we look forward to your response. Congresswoman Candice Miller (MI-10) Congressman Frank Lucas (OK-3) Congressman Bob Latta (OH-5) Congressman Jeff Denham (CA-19 Congressman Sam Graves (MO-6) Congressman Mike Simpson (ID-2) Congressman Bill Owens (NY-23) Congressman Bob Gibbs (OH-18) Congressman Joe Courtney (CT-2) Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (KS-2) Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (MD-6) Congressman Devin Nunes (CA-21) Congressman Bill Huizenga (MI-2) Congressman Tim Holden (PA-17) Congressman Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-9) Congressman Tom Petri (WI-6) Congressman John Carter (TX-31) ###
02.11.2011	Congressman Mike Simpson put out a statement today supporting H.R. 1, the continuing resolution for fiscal year 2011. H.R. 1 cuts federal spending by $100 billion for the current year, the largest spending reduction in the nation’s history, in an effort to rein in out-of-control government spending and take the first steps toward reducing the national debt. “For years I have been saying that the fiscal crisis facing our nation threatens our national economy and the economic stability of American families, farmers, and businesses, and the spending spree of the past two years is having alarming consequences,” said Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee. “Given the enormity of this crisis, Republicans are stepping up to the plate and starting to make the tough decisions necessary to get our fiscal house back in order. We cannot afford to continue spending at current rates and borrowing money to pay for it.” As Chairman of the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Simpson has reduced his subcommittee’s budget by over $4.5 billion, 14% below the President’s FY11 budget request. Cuts to the EPA comprise 69% of the bill-wide cut below current levels. The bill terminates 27 programs within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction. “Cutting billions of dollars out of our subcommittee’s budget means that we’ve had to make some very difficult decisions, and funding decreases of this magnitude will certainly be felt in states like Idaho that have large percentages of federal land,” said Simpson. “I realize that many of these cuts will not be popular, but the simple truth is that you can’t spend money you don’t have. If we are serious about getting our deficit under control, we have to do what every family in America does every day: figure out what our priorities are and create a responsible budget that reflects those priorities.” Compared to the President’s FY11 budget request, H.R. 1 would: • Reduce funding for the EPA by 30%; • Reduce federal land acquisition by $532 million, 90% below the FY11 request; • Cut climate change funding across agencies within the subcommittee’s jurisdiction by 41%. H.R. 1 was filed with the House Rules Committee tonight. The House of Representatives will consider it on the floor next week.
02.09.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced his membership in the bipartisan Congressional Dairy Farmer Caucus for the 112th Congress in order to provide a forum for members and staff to meet with policy makers, organizations, and industry leaders that impact dairy farmers. “Idaho Dairymen and their counterparts across the nation face unique challenges,” said Simpson. “Producers are facing fluctuating prices, growing input costs, increasingly onerous regulations, and changes in international trade policy that combine to create a very difficult business climate. Congress has enormous influence over many of these issues, and it is important that those of us who represent dairy producers have a forum in which we can come together to learn, listen, and lead." America’s dairy industry supports over one million full-time jobs and generates approximately $140 billion in economic activity. The American dairy industry is an integral component of our national and local economies; it is undeniably the foundation of many of the rural communities in Idaho and across the country. "I hope we can grow the membership of this caucus and its influence over federal agriculture, tax, and regulatory policy in a way that is positive for rural America," said Simpson. "I look forward to sharing the stories and recommendations of Idaho dairy producers with my caucus colleagues in the coming weeks and months."
02.08.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is proud to congratulate four Idaho students for outstanding acts of volunteerism. Dylan Bass, 18, of Garden Valley and McKenzie Gredler, 13, of Meridian were named Idaho's top two youth volunteers for 2011 by the Prudential Spirit of Community Awards, a nationwide program honoring young people for outstanding acts of volunteerism. As State Honorees, each will receive $1,000, an engraved silver medallion, and an all-expense-paid trip in early May to Washington, D.C., where they will join the top two honorees from each of the other states and the District of Columbia for several days of national recognition events. Ten of them will be named America’s top youth volunteers for 2011 at that time. The program judges also recognized two other Idaho students, Zana Davey, 17, of Hailey, and Emily Miller, 19, of Kuna, as Distinguished Finalists for their impressive community service activities. Each will receive an engraved bronze medallion. “These young people are exemplary in the manner in which they choose to live their lives,” said Simpson. “I am proud of each of them and know they will enrich their lives and the lives of others through the service they provide, especially at such a young age.” The awards program, now in its 16th year, is conducted by Prudential Financial in partnership with the National Association of Secondary School Principals (NASSP). Since the program began in 1995, more than 95,000 young volunteers nationwide have been honored at the local, state or national level. Many prominent public figures have assisted in saluting these honorees over the years, including Jimmy Carter, Barbara Bush, Magic Johnson, John Glenn, Madeleine Albright, Rudy Giuliani, Whoopi Goldberg, Colin Powell, Peyton Manning, Laura Bush, and Condoleezza Rice. “These award recipients have proven that young people across America are critical to the future of our neighborhoods, our nation, and our world,” said John R. Strangfeld, chairman and CEO of Prudential Financial. “Each and every one of these honorees deserve our respect and admiration, and we hope by shining a light on them, they will continue to serve as an example for others.” “The young people recognized by the Prudential Spirit of Community Awards demonstrate an enormous capacity for giving and reaching out to those in need,” said Gerald N. Tirozzi, executive director of the National Association of Secondary School Principals. “NASSP is proud to honor these student leaders because they are wonderful examples of the high caliber of young people in our nation’s schools today.” Dylan Bass, a senior at Garden Valley High School, is his community’s coordinator for a program that provides overseas military families with manufacturer’s coupons to help stretch their budgets. His commitment to volunteering started at the age of four when he rode his tricycle a mile to raise funds for a local ambulance service. “No one thought I’d go very far, so they pledged a bunch of money – they were pretty shocked when they had to pay up!” Bass said. Over the years, he helped in various capacities in his community but it wasn’t until his junior year of high school that Bass decided to devote his efforts to helping military personnel. “The meager salary of a junior enlisted soldier is barely sufficient for living, and if they have any dependents, they are considered under the poverty line,” he said. That was when he stumbled onto a website about the Overseas Coupon Program. After “adopting” the U.S. Naval and Marine Corp base in Sigonella, Italy, Bass, with the help of his mother, went to work collecting, printing, clipping, sorting, and shipping coupons. At first it was slow going, but after an article about his efforts appeared in the local paper, volunteers in Idaho, Nevada and Oregon began clipping for his project. It wasn’t long before his house was filled with stacks of coupons waiting to be mailed. And Bass far surpassed his goal of a few thousand dollars in coupons. At last count, he had sent coupons worth $96,000 overseas to help ease the strain on military budgets. “I believe that when these monthly bundles of coupons arrive to be spread out on tables at the base commissary, a gift of thanks to our military members goes with it,” said Bass. McKenzie Gredler, an eighth-grader at Sawtooth Middle School, is training a service dog to enhance the life of a disabled person. Gredler said she had always enjoyed helping people with disabilities, but her interest intensified when her mother suffered a spinal stroke that required months of rehabilitation. When her parents told her that Canine Companions for Independence needed people to train puppies to be service dogs, she jumped at the chance. “This organization combines two of my passions, animals and helping others,” said Gredler, who wants to be a veterinarian when she grows up. After being accepted as a trainer, a black lab puppy named “Giga” moved in with Gredler. As a service dog trainer, Gredler’s day starts at 5:30 a.m. when she takes Giga for a run. Then she feeds her, gets her ready for the day, and spends time training her after school. At the end of the day, she documents her dog’s progress in a journal. To ensure that the puppy is socialized and easily adapts to many situations and environments, Gredler takes Giga everywhere with her – to the movies, the doctor’s office, nursing homes to visit residents, the orthodontist, even to restaurants. Sometimes the two travel to school classrooms where she talks to students about volunteerism. After 15 months, Giga will graduate and move on for advanced training that will qualify her to be a service dog to a disabled person. Although she will be sad, Gredler said it will be one of her proudest moments. “Whenever I get sad about having to give up my new best friend, I remind myself that she was never mine, and I am only a chapter in Giga’s service life.” Zana Davey, 17, of Hailey, a senior at the Community School in Sun Valley, is an active volunteer with the Hunger Coalition, a local charity that helps to feed and empower the needy. After volunteering over the summer, Davey was invited to become a student representative on the board and in this position has helped to secure donations and often speaks on the organization’s behalf at public events. Emily Miller, 19, of Kuna, a senior at Kuna High School, created a student service group called Harambee, a name that means “unity” in Swahili. Miller organized a number of projects including a bullying prevention program, a greeting card project for the troops, a Christmas gift collection for underprivileged women, and a fund-raiser to help students pay for the ACT college entrance exams. For information on all of this year’s Prudential Spirit of Community State Honorees and Distinguished Finalists, visit spirit.prudential.com or www.nassp.org/spirit.
02.08.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has once again cosponsored H.R. 459, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act. Currently the Government Accountability Office (GAO) can audit non-monetary policy functions of the Federal Reserve (Fed), but in the 1970’s Congress limited its ability to audit the Fed’s monetary policies. This bill would eliminate restrictions on GAO audits of the Federal Reserve, thus opening Federal Reserve operations to enhanced scrutiny. “Like many Members of Congress, I was surprised to learn that GAO’s authority is so limited,” said Simpson. “In light of the recent crisis facing our financial system and its continued impact our economy, I believe it is time that we look carefully at the Fed’s policies, its role in regulating financial institutions in this country, and the impact that its decisions have on our economy.” The GAO is restricted from conducting audits on transactions with foreign banks and governments, decisions and actions on monetary matters, and transactions made under the direction of the Federal Open Market Committee. By opening all Fed operations to a GAO audit and calling for such an audit to be completed by the end of 2012, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act would achieve much-needed transparency of the Federal Reserve.
01.27.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.R. 462, the Tax Code Termination Act. This legislation would abolish the Internal Revenue Code and call on Congress to fundamentally reform the federal tax system. “Over the last few years there have been several proposals to curtail the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) intrusion into the American homes. These include proposals to implement a flat tax or a national sales tax,” said Simpson. “I believe the most effective course of action is to sunset the current complex and unfair federal tax code and replace it with a simple and fair alternative.” Americans work more than four months a year just to pay their tax bills. The average American family pays more in taxes than it spends on food, shelter and clothing combined. The tax code Americans are forced to comply with is unfair, discourages savings and investment, and is impossibly complex. “A new tax code should provide tax relief for working Americans, protect the rights of taxpayers, reduce tax collection abuses, and eliminate disincentives for savings and investment,” said Simpson. Similar legislation has already been passed twice by the House of Representatives, first in 1998 by a vote of 219-209 and then in 2000 by a vote of 229-187. Simpson has been a cosponsor of similar legislation since he was elected to Congress.
01.27.2011	daho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raúl Labrador joined Montana Congressman Denny Rehberg by introducing a comprehensive legislative solution to the ongoing wolf controversy aimed at returning wolf management authority to the states once and for all. H.R. 510, Idaho and Montana Wolf Management Act of 2011, responds to frustration throughout Idaho and Montana after a U.S. district judge in Montana overturned the Fish and Wildlife Service decision, which was supported by both the Obama Administration and the Bush Administration, to remove gray wolves from the endangered species list in Idaho and Montana. As a result, Idaho and Montana cannot manage wolves under the management plan approved by the Fish and Wildlife Service. In recent months, both Simpson and Rehberg have solicited comments from Idahoans and Montanans to get their ideas on how to solve this problem. Many of these comments have been incorporated into H.R. 510. “As we look for a viable long-term solution to this issue that returns the authority to manage wolves within their borders to the states, I depend on the input and advice of the Idahoans who are most impacted by the court’s decision to relist wolves,” said Simpson. “This input is reflected in this bill, and I look forward to working with Congressmen Rehberg and Labrador to move forward on this issue by seeing the Idaho and Montana Wolf Management Act signed into law.” “The gray wolf isn’t endangered, which is why Republicans and Democrats alike are joining forces to end the misuse of the Endangered Species Act to advance extremist policy agendas,” said Rehberg, a rancher from Billings. “I heard from thousands of Montanans, and folks get it. They know that states are better at managing our own local wildlife than the federal government thousands of miles away. Unless there’s a darn good reason – and there’s not – the federal government has no business getting involved. Years of research, dedicated efforts by land owners and local officials, and the expert opinions of on-the-ground wildlife managers have been given a back seat to profit-motivated environmental groups. We need to end this abuse and solve an issue that should have been put to rest years ago.” “Increasing numbers of wolves in Idaho show that protection under the endangered species act is no longer needed,” said Labrador. “The endangered species act is a tool to recover a species, not a program for infinite and never-ending federal oversight. The wolves are thriving, the science is definitive and the time has come to delist the gray wolf permanently.” Simpson is the Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, which oversees funding for the Fish and Wildlife Service.
01.25.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union speech delivered this evening. Simpson agrees that political rhetoric should become more civil and that our country must become energy independent, and he strongly believes that unnecessary strict federal regulations impact job growth. “The top issues for all Americans are the national deficit and the economy, and I am glad to hear the President say he is committed to creating jobs. If we really want to eliminate the national debt, we need to get spending under control and get our economy going again. I am concerned, however, that his Administration’s actions don’t always match up with his sound bites, particularly when it comes to the regulatory agenda that the EPA and other agencies have been advancing under his watch. One thing businesses need to succeed is certainty, and the rate at which the Obama Administration has issued new regulations has created an atmosphere of uncertainty among job creators in America. Company after company, big and small, has told me how they are sitting on capital rather than creating jobs or investing in the growth of their businesses because they don’t know how government regulations are going to affect them. “I was particularly interested in the President’s call for clean energy sources. Our economic and national security depend on our nation becoming energy independent, but for too long, neither Congress nor the President have been serious about this goal. I applaud the President’s recognition that we can’t expect to achieve energy independence without embracing every opportunity available, especially nuclear power. I am convinced that we can never meet clean energy goals like the one the President laid out tonight if we don't experience a nuclear renaissance, and Idaho is poised to help lead the nation in this effort. If we are serious about becoming energy independent, we need to enact policies that don’t pick political winners and losers but look at all of our options.”
01.19.2011	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Raul Labrador voted today in favor of H.R. 2, legislation repealing the Democrat’s health care law. The bill fully repeals President Obama’s health care reform bill that was signed into law last year. The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2 with a final vote of 245-189. Both Simpson and Labrador were original cosponsors of the bill. “The Democrats’ health care bill is wrong for our country,” said Simpson. “I strongly believe the best thing we could do is to repeal the bill in its entirety and start the process over by passing smaller bills that enjoy bipartisan support and focus on bringing down costs for American healthcare consumers.” “With this vote, the House took a big first step towards repealing this unconstitutional law – a step in the direction asked for by a majority of Idahoans,” said Labrador. “Repealing this law will enable Congress to begin the process of finding constitutional, market-based solutions to providing Idahoans with accessible and affordable quality healthcare without stifling job growth and increasing government spending.” The bill now needs the support of the Senate before potentially moving to the White House, where President Obama can veto any legislation, however the Idaho Congressmen vow to work to repeal and amend the law in any way possible to limit its impact on small businesses and taxpayers. Congressman Simpson and Labrador pledge to move forward with other measures that have a chance of becoming law offering Americans genuine health care solutions. They both support Idaho’s constitutional challenge to the Democrats’ bill; they will both work to amend the bill to alter its most onerous provisions; and they will both seek to limit funding of its implementation. Simpson and Labrador are also cosponsors of three other bills that would repeal individual sections of the burdensome health care legislation. The bills include: H.R. 21, the Reclaiming Individual Liberty Act, introduced by Congressman Scott Garrett (R-NJ). This bill repeals the unconstitutional individual mandate. H.R.154, the Defund the Individual Mandate Act, introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-TX). This bill prohibits funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to any federal department or agency to be used to implement or enforce any federal mandate to purchase health insurance. H.R. 144, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011, introduced by Congressman Daniel Lungren (R-CA). This bill repeals the onerous and burdensome small business tax reporting provision that requires business owners to submit a separate 1099 reporting form for every single business-to-business transaction that totals more than $600 in a given year.
01.07.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is now the Chairman of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. The subcommittee, of which Simpson has been Ranking Republican for the past two years, oversees funding for the Department of the Interior, the U.S. Forest Service, and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as smaller related agencies. “This is an extremely important subcommittee for Idaho,” said Simpson. “The federal government owns nearly two-thirds of the land in our state, so Idahoans interact with agencies like the Forest Service and the BLM on a daily basis. Land management agencies need to be good neighbors, and I will work to ensure that they are able to act effectively and efficiently on the public’s behalf.” As Chairman, Congressman Simpson will be tasked with reducing spending levels that have grown out of control in recent years under Democrat control. In particular, he has his eyes set on the EPA, which has seen exponential growth in its budget since President Obama came into office. “The EPA is the scariest agency in the federal government, an agency run amok,” Simpson said. “Its bloated budget has allowed it to drastically expand its regulatory authority in a way that is hurting our economy and pushing an unwelcomed government further into the lives of Idahoans. As Chairman of this subcommittee, I look forward to bringing some common sense to the EPA and some certainty for our nation’s job creators.” Simpson will once again serve on the Committee’s Energy and Water Development Subcommittee during the 112th Congress. The Energy and Water Development Subcommittee has jurisdiction over all activities of the Department of Energy, including the National Nuclear Security Administration, and the Office of Nuclear Energy. Its jurisdiction also includes the Bureau of Reclamation, the Army Corps of Engineers, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Bonneville Power Administration and numerous other independent agencies. The Subcommittee’s jurisdiction includes the overwhelming majority of work being conducted at the Idaho National Laboratory including nuclear research and environmental remediation. “I have thoroughly enjoyed serving on the Energy and Water Subcommittee over the past eight years and am pleased to be able to continue my work on a Subcommittee so important to Idaho and the Pacific Northwest,” said Simpson. “Our nation is on the precipice of a nuclear renaissance and I hope to use my position on the Subcommittee to accelerate that renaissance and move us closer to energy independence. In the process, I hope to not only protect the interests of the Idaho National Laboratory, but to expand its capabilities and foster its growth in the coming years.” Simpson will also serve on the Committee’s Labor, Health and Human Services and Education and Related Agencies that has jurisdiction over the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, all extremely important agencies to Idaho. The Subcommittee will be at the forefront of efforts to reduce the federal budget and streamline federal programs. It will also play a lead role in Republican efforts to block the implementation of the Democrat’s health care reform bill. “I look forward to playing a key role on this subcommittee in advancing the principles of limited and efficient government and in blocking attempts to expand the federal government’s reach in inappropriate ways,” said Simpson.
01.05.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will preside over the U.S. House of Representatives when they convene at 10:00 am EST/ 8:00 am MST on Thurs., Jan. 6. The first order of business will be reading the U.S. Constitution and will be shown live on CSPAN. “It is extremely humbling to preside over the U.S. House of Representatives and I often think about the members throughout our nation’s history who previously held the gavel and the difficult decisions they faced,” said Simpson. “History captivates me, and it is an honor to have the privilege of presiding over the reading of the U.S. Constitution, the first step in keeping our pledge to the American people to change the way Congress works.” Congressman Simpson, who was one of the last members presiding in the 109th Congress when Republicans last had control of the U.S. House of Representatives, will be one of the first members to preside over the 112th Congress.
01.05.2011	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today cosponsored the Repealing the Job-Killing Health Care Law Act. This bill would fully repeal the job-killing health care law and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 that were signed into law last year. The U.S. House of Representatives plans to vote on this bill as early as next week. “The Democrats’ healthcare bill is wrong for our country,” said Simpson. “I strongly believe the best thing we could do is to repeal the bill in its entirety and start the process over by passing smaller bills that enjoy bipartisan support and focus on bringing down costs for American healthcare consumers.” Simpson also stressed that while they continue to push a full-scale repeal, Republicans in Congress and in the states should work to repeal and amend the law in any way possible to limit its negative impact. “The simple truth is that the prospects for full-scale repeal are slim as long as President Obama is in office and can veto any legislation we might be able to pass through Congress,” said Simpson. “So while we wait for the presidential election of 2012, we should move forward with other measures that hold more near-term promise of blunting the impact of this bill. Those efforts include supporting Idaho’s constitutional challenge to the Democrats’ bill, amending the bill to alter its most onerous provisions, and seeking limitations on funding of its implementation. Limiting the reach and impact of this bill must be a multi-pronged approach.” Simpson is also a cosponsor of three other bills introduced in the House this week to repeal individual sections of the bill. He is a cosponsor of a bill introduced by Congressman Scott Garrett, the Reclaiming Individual Liberty Act, which would repeal the unconstitutional individual mandate. He also is a cosponsor of legislation introduced by Congressman Ted Poe. The Defund the Individual Mandate Act would prohibit funds from being appropriated or otherwise made available to any federal department or agency to be used to implement or enforce any federal mandate to purchase health insurance. In addition, he is a cosponsor of the Small Business Paperwork Relief Act. Introduced by Congressman Dan Lungren, this bill would repeal the onerous and burdensome small business tax reporting provision that requires business owners to submit a separate 1099 reporting form for every single business-to-business transaction that totals more than $600 in a given year.
12.17.2010	Late last night, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted against the $858 billion omnibus tax bill, calling it “a picture perfect example of the misguided spending and legislative procedures overwhelmingly rejected by the American people in November.” The bill, H.R. 4853, would have extended current tax rates and provisions for two years, but it also included a number of other provisions added onto the bill to entice members to support it, including a temporary Social Security tax reduction and tax breaks for ethanol, NASCAR, and television and movie producers. Simpson, who supports making tax cuts for families and small businesses permanent, expressed concern about continuing uncertainty in the tax code and the failure of Congress to provide families, farmers, and businesses with long-term tax certainty. “As I talk to farmers, ranchers, and businesses throughout Idaho about the economic challenges they face, the common theme I hear is that tax and regulatory uncertainty has forced them to hunker down and wait out the economic storm, rather than investing in their businesses and creating new jobs,” said Simpson. “If we truly want to get our budget deficit under control, we need to get our economy going again. Regrettably, instead of providing our nation’s job creators with the certainty they need to jumpstart our economy, this bill only creates more uncertainty and piles even more debt on our children and grandchildren through its inclusion of countless extraneous provisions.” Simpson also expressed concern about a provision to take $112 billion from the Social Security Trust Fund next year through a short-term reduction in the payroll tax. “Experts across the political spectrum, including those on the President’s own Debt Commission, are warning Congress that it needs to make tough decisions not only on discretionary spending, but on programs like Social Security and Medicare. This bill not only fails to start the process of making those tough choices, it actually makes matters worse by moving Social Security even closer to insolvency,” said Simpson. Over the course of the last year, Simpson has repeatedly argued that reducing the budget deficit and national debt should be the number one priority of Congress. H.R. 4853, he argues, moves our nation further away from solving its budget problems. "Given the enormity of the fiscal crisis facing our nation, Congress can't continue to produce so-called compromises where everyone simply gets everything they want. Regrettably, this bill represents the ‘borrow and spend’ mentality that has enabled our fiscal crisis and is a product of a broken legislative process that disgusts the American people.” Simpson voted against an amendment offered by Representative Pomeroy (D-ND) to raise the estate tax from the 35 percent included in the bill to 45 percent and reduce the exemption level from $5 million to $3.5 million. The amendment failed. The House passed H.R. 4853 by a vote of 277-148 late last night. The bill, which has already passed the Senate, now goes to the President for his signature.
12.07.2010	Idaho Congressman Simpson participated in the New Millennium Nuclear Energy Summit today, which was co-hosted by the Third Way and the Idaho National Laboratory. The summit brought together senior government and industry officials, NGO representatives and energy investors to discuss the future of nuclear energy in our nation. During the summit, Simpson noted the importance of holding continued discussions on the future of nuclear energy. He said, “Nuclear energy must be a part of our energy future if we are going to truly address the issues of greenhouse gases and climate change. However, if we’re going to advance nuclear industry in this country, both government and industry need to know where we are and where we’re going.” The summit featured a variety of stakeholders, including Secretary of Energy Steven Chu, White House Advisor Carol Browner, Nuclear Regulatory Commissioner Chairman Gregory Jaczko, Idaho National Laboratory Director John Grossenbacher, as well as industry CEOs and other stakeholders. The stated goal of the summit is to provide a forum to start developing broader consensus on the future of nuclear energy in the United States and determining the steps needed to revive the nation’s nuclear energy industry. “We must work together to develop and sustain a long term nuclear energy vision with the government and industry - working together as partners and putting down a strong footprint towards implementing these goals,” said Simpson. “This summit is a strong first step, and I look forward to moving ahead on this vision.” The summit represents the first of a series of meetings and conversations to be held over the coming year on the future of nuclear energy.
12.07.2010	Today, the House of Representatives passed S. 3987, the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010. In October 2009, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Congressman John Adler (D-NJ), and Congressman Paul Broun (R-GA) introduced and passed similar legislation, HR 3763, which would protect small businesses and small health care practices from complying with a burdensome and unnecessary federal regulation known as the Red Flags Rule. This bill then went to the Senate where they passed S. 3987, which clarifies the definition of a creditor for the purposes of complying with the Red Flags Rule. The Red Flags Rule requires financial institutions and creditors to develop and implement a written identity theft program. Under S. 3987, a creditor would include only those entities that regularly use consumer reports or furnish information to consumer reporting agencies. “It is obvious that physicians and dentists are not financial institutions and therefore do not present the same level of risk as financial institutions in cases of identity theft. The definition of creditor under the Red Flags Rule is overly broad and encompasses far too many businesses that should not be included. Many providers are considered creditors because they don’t require full payment at the time of service—instead they bill the insurance company first, and then they bill the patient the remainder of the bill. This system should not be treated the same as a loan with a bank,” said Congressman Simpson. “Health care is expensive enough; we don’t need to create needless regulations that will only increase costs even more.” This bipartisan legislation recognizes that the definition of a creditor under the Red Flags Rule is overall broad and requires businesses that do not pose an identity theft risk to spend hundreds of dollars complying with additional, unnecessary regulations. Entities such as health providers, accountants and others were never meant to be included in the definition of creditor, and this legislation is an appropriate next step to better defining who is a creditor and should comply while protecting our small businesses from needless costs and regulations. “I am pleased to see that Congress is going to address this very important issue before the rule takes effect on January 1st,” said Simpson. “This bill is a good compromise to addressing the concerns of impacted businesses and healthcare providers while still tackling the very real need to protect individuals and groups against the threat of identity theft.” This bill passed the House unanimously and will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. To watch a video of Congressman Simpson's floor speech, visit his YouTube website.
12.01.2010	Congressman Simpson today urged congressional leadership to act promptly to prevent a dramatic increase in the estate tax. Without congressional action, the estate tax, which has been phased out over the past nine years, will come back in full force on January 1, 2011. As a result, families who hope to pass down the family farm, ranch, or small business will face a crippling tax. In January, the estate taxes are set to be reinstated at a $1 million exemption with a top rate of 55 percent. The letter, which was signed by members of the Congressional Caucus on Beef, urges leaders to act quickly to ensure that any estate tax that is reinstated next year will have a higher exemption level that is indexed for inflation and a lower tax rate. The members also advocate for a tax deferral for land that stays in agriculture production. “In many cases, families are forced to sell assets in order to pay the estate tax,” the letter states. “Families have been left guessing on the ever-changing rules when attempting to make plans for the future of their businesses. We believe that clear policy direction is needed to ensure that farmers and ranchers around the nation are able to make sound planning decisions for the future.” Simpson is a cosponsor of legislation to make permanent the repeal of the death tax.
11.19.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is advocating for the U.S. Forest Service to implement policies that recognize the value of public access and recreation on national forests. The Forest Service is currently developing a formal draft National Forest System land management planning rule. Today Simpson joined 19 other members of the Congressional Sportsmen’s Caucus in sending the agency a letter urging them to ensure that any such rule does not create new obstacles for those who recreate on public lands. “In Idaho, we know firsthand the value that public lands bring to our way of life,” said Simpson. “Hunting, fishing, and backpacking are activities that promote a healthy and active lifestyle and provide opportunities for families to spend time together. What is more, those who live and recreate on public lands are great stewards of the land, and I believe ensuring that people continue to have the opportunity to recreate in our national forests benefits both communities and our forests.” The letter highlights the fact that millions of American families visit the national forest system each year to enjoy recreational activities, including camping, mountain biking, hiking, hunting and fishing, horseback riding, and off road and other motorized recreation. These activities not only benefit individuals and families, but they are important economic engines for local economies. In light of these benefits, Simpson and his colleagues expressed concern about terms used in the Forest Service’s Draft Recreation Approach posted online that are not defined and could lead to litigation or misinterpretation that might reduce recreational opportunities. The letter reads: “As the Forest Service develops the rule, we believe it should be simple, unambiguous, and allow individual national forest officials the flexibility to manage these lands based on local needs and input. We also believe that any rule must either eliminate or clearly define vague terms that could lead to endless litigation and interpretation. Finally, we encourage the Forest Service to ensure that any national planning rule that is proposed allows for robust and diverse public access to and recreation on our national forests so current and future generations can enjoy their public lands.” Congressman Simpson is the lead Republican on the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Forest Service.
11.18.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson introduced a House Resolution today condemning the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for his unilateral decision to begin the closure of the Yucca Mountain license application review. He was joined by twelve other Republican members, many of whom sit on committees with jurisdiction over the NRC or Yucca Mountain. Simpson condemned the decision and called on the NRC to immediately resume activities. “Time and time again, Congress has supported Yucca Mountain as the only option for a long–term nuclear storage site, and it has repeatedly and overwhelmingly rejected attempts to shut down the program,” said Simpson. “The American taxpayer has spent over $8 billion studying Yucca Mountain and is liable for billions more for breach of contract. During a time of record budget deficits, it is unconscionable that the NRC Chairman and DOE would waste billions of dollars of taxpayer money with no return on the investment.” NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko has been quoted as saying that he is moving the agency to close down licensing activities based on the guidance of the Administration’s FY2011 proposed budget. The agency is currently operating under a temporary continuing resolution because its final budget was not approved before the 2011 fiscal year started on October 1st. This resolution notes the NRC’s Atomic Safety and Licensing Board found that the Yucca Mountain license application cannot be legally withdrawn and that the NRC’s Inspector General has launched an investigation of the Chairman’s unilateral decision to terminate the review of the Yucca Mountain application. It formally condemns the Chairman and calls on the NRC to resume license activities immediately pending further direction from Congress. “Historically, the NRC maintained a role as an independent apolitical regulatory and oversight body,” said Simpson. “It is unconscionable that the NRC Chairman is moving forward unilaterally to shut down the program without the support of Congress or the support of his own commissioners. The Chairman’s recent actions jeopardize the NRC’s reputation and put the Chairman at risk of making it into just another agency playing partisan politics with Americans’ hard-earned money.” The cosponsors include the following: Jerry Lewis (R-CA); Ranking Member, Committee on Appropriations Doc Hastings (R-WA); Ranking Member, Natural Resources Paul Ryan (R-WI); Ranking Member, Committee on Budget Joe Barton (R-TX); Ranking Member, Committee on Energy and Commerce Ralph Hall (R-TX); Ranking Member, Science and Technology Committee James Sensenbrenner (R-WI); Ranking Member, Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming Rodney Frelinghuysen (R-NJ); Ranking Member, Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Zack Wamp (R-TN); Member of Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Dennis Rehberg (R-MT); Member of Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Ken Calvert (R-CA); Member of Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Rodney Alexander (R-CA); Member of Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations Gresham Barrett (R-SC); Represents Savannah River Cleanup Site Ed Whitfield (R-KY); Represents Paducah Cleanup Site
11.16.2010	United States Congressmen Mike Simpson, Doc Hastings, and Paul Ryan sent a letter to Office of Management and Budget Acting Director Jeffrey Zients requesting a review of the decision taken by Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Chairman Gregory Jaczko to shut down the review of the Department of Energy’s application for Yucca Mountain. Chairman Jaczko acted unilaterally to discontinue the review of the Department of Energy’s application for Yucca Mountain and terminate the project. In their letter, the Congressmen noted that while the Obama Administration opposes Yucca Mountain, it remains our nation’s repository for spent nuclear fuel and high level defense waste under the law. The members also pointed out the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board rejected the Department of Energy’s motion to withdraw the Yucca Mountain license application and the Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not yet weighed in on this decision. In addition, litigation contesting the shutdown is pending in federal court. “I am greatly concerned by the NRC Chairman’s decision to unilaterally shut down the Yucca Mountain license application over the concern of other Commissioners and Congress,” said Simpson. “The NRC is an independent apolitical regulatory agency, and the fact that it is ignoring sound science and strong Congressional support in favor of partisan politics is very concerning.” Currently, the federal government is operating under a continuing resolution based on the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations levels. NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko has been quoted as saying that he is moving the agency to close down licensing activities based on the guidance of the Administration’s FY2011 proposed budget. The Fiscal Year 2011 budget has not been approved by Congress and the President’s budget proposal does not have the force of law. The Congressmen also requested a detailed explanation from the Office of Management and Budget outlining the legal budgetary authority of Chairman Jaczko to shut down the Yucca Mountain review and terminate the project. A copy of the letter is attached.
11.16.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today cosponsored H.R. 6403, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Rescission Act. H.R. 6403 will rescind all remaining unobligated stimulus dollars left from the $282 billion in discretionary spending that was originally appropriated in the stimulus bill. “During a time when the national debt is nearly $14 trillion, this is unacceptable and the American people are demanding a stop to federal spending,” said Simpson. “This legislation is the first step toward reducing the deficit. It is vital that we pass this bill as soon as possible.” Much of the discretionary stimulus funding has already been distributed to specific programs, with most of it dispersed to projects that failed to create jobs. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), there is currently $12 billion in unobligated funds available for rescission. Congress has the opportunity to end this wasteful spending and return the remaining billions in taxpayer funds back to the Treasury for deficit reduction. “On November 2, Americans made history and sent a strong message to Congress. The wasteful spending has to stop and the deficit has to be reduced. Returning the unspent stimulus money back to the Treasury is the first step to rebuilding our economy,” said Simpson. H.R. 6403 was referred to the House Appropriations Committee, the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Republicans hope to quickly move the bill to the floor for a vote so it can be sent to the President for a signature by the end of this session.
10.21.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson sent a letter to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) expressing his concern over their decision to shut down the Yucca Mountain license application. Along with the other Republican members of the House Energy and Water Subcommittee on Appropriations, which has jurisdiction over funding for the NRC as well as the Yucca Mountain project, Simpson questioned the justification for this action as well as its appropriateness in an election year. “The NRC has long maintained a reputation as an independent, apolitical regulatory and oversight body,” said Simpson. “It is unthinkable that its leadership would choose to play partisan politics by shutting down the Yucca Mountain license application in an effort to help one candidate in his election.” NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko has been quoted as saying that he is moving the agency to close down licensing activities based on the guidance of the Administration’s FY2011 proposed budget. The Agency is currently operating under a temporary continuing resolution because its final budget was not approved before the 2011 fiscal year started on October 1st. In their letter, Republican members of the Subcommittee noted that the NRC should continue to follow FY2010 guidance until a final FY2011 budget has been approved. They also questioned whether this is a responsible decision, given that the NRC’s Atomic Safety and Licensing Board has rejected the Department of Energy’s motion to withdraw the application. The NRC has not yet weighed in on this decision. “We are concerned that your actions call into question whether the NRC, under your leadership, will be able to maintain its historical role as an independent regulatory and oversight body,” the letter to Jaczko wrote. “If you continue to shut down the Yucca Mountain license application, which can only be seen as a partisan act, we will reconsider the flexibilities which the NRC has long enjoyed due to its reputation as an independent body,” the letter stated later.
10.05.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is seeking input from Idahoans on a long-term solution for the management of wolves in Idaho. Simpson has posted draft legislation on his website that would remove the Rocky Mountain Wolf from the endangered species list in Idaho and Montana, returning management authority to the states. In August, a U.S. district judge in Montana overturned the Fish and Wildlife Service decision supported by both the Obama Administration and the Bush Administration to remove gray wolves from the endangered species list in Idaho and Montana. As a result, Idaho cannot manage wolves under the management plan approved by the Fish and Wildlife Service, including implementing a controlled wolf hunt for 2010. “Idaho hunters, ranchers, and land users are the ones most directly impacted by Judge Molloy’s decision to put wolves back on the endangered species list,” said Simpson, “and I am confident that Idahoans have the best ideas when it comes to finding a workable, long-term solution to the ongoing problem of wolf management.” Simpson is asking Idahoans to review a legislative proposal drafted by Congressman Denny Rehberg from Montana and provide comments. Simpson and Rehberg will review the comments from Idahoans and Montanans in order to craft final legislation that can be introduced in the House of Representatives. “After hearing from literally thousands of people over the past several weeks at listening sessions and through the internet, it’s clear the frustration is well past the boiling point and federal legislation is likely necessary,” said Congressman Rehberg. “It’s time to start working toward a solution that works for western states, not just powerful out-of-state interest groups.” “There is no scientific reason to keep wolves on the endangered species list when their recovery has clearly exceeded the goals that were laid out at reintroduction,” said Simpson. “We need to find a solution to this issue that can be passed by Congress and will stand up in court, and I strongly believe that the input of Idahoans is critical in this process.” Idahoans wishing to provide comments and feedback should visit Simpson's webpage at www.simpson.house.gov and click on the wolf icon located on the right side of the page. Simpson is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, which oversees funding for the Fish and Wildlife Service.
09.27.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 144 Members of Congress in sending a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi requesting an up-or-down vote on extending the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts before the November election. If Congress fails to act on extending these tax credits before the end of the year, American families and small businesses will see a tax increase of almost $4 trillion. “All taxpaying Americans have benefited from marriage penalty relief, increased child tax credits, and a reduced tax burden on their income and their investments,” said Simpson. “Right now American families are struggling to make ends meet and small businesses are facing the possibility of laying off employees or closing their doors, and I simply don’t believe that a huge tax increase on families and job creators is the best way to get our economy growing again.” Because many small businesses pay taxes within the framework of the individual income tax, small businesses are three times more likely to see their taxes increase, compared to other individuals. “Small businesses are the engines of our economy, and if we want our economy to recover, we need to give them the tools that they need to grow their businesses and hire more employees,” said Simpson. “Now is not the time to raises their taxes, pile unnecessary regulations on them, and create more uncertainty that will impede their ability to create jobs.” Simpson is a cosponsor of numerous pieces of legislation to extend or make permanent existing tax relief provisions, including the repeal of the death tax, increased child tax credits, and relief from the marriage penalty.
09.23.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson enthusiastically endorses the House Republicans ‘Pledge to America.’ This new governing agenda addresses their top priorities – including creating jobs, cutting spending, and changing the way Congress works. “Our nation is at a historical crossroad. Americans have been engaged and vocal about the direction in which they think our country should be heading, and this Pledge addresses their concerns,” said Simpson. “Our country needs certainty in order to overcome the challenges we are facing. Businesses need to know that they won’t face increased taxes and regulatory burdens. Families need to know their jobs are secure and our economy is strong. Citizens need to know that Congress is working on behalf of the American people. Our Pledge addresses these priorities.” The Pledge is the culmination of a months-long engagement with the American people in which House Republicans sought their ideas and priorities for Congress. The agenda offers concrete solutions that can be implemented immediately to tackle the issues that are most important to the nation, including job creation, spending restraint, national security, health care, and reform of Congress itself. “Across America, the people see a government in Washington that isn’t listening, doesn’t get it, and doesn’t care. Today, that begins to change,” House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH) said. “This new governing agenda, built by listening to the people, offers plans to create jobs, cut spending, and put power where it belongs: in the hands of the people. 'A Pledge to America' offers a new way forward that hasn’t been tried in Washington: an approach focused on cutting spending instead of accelerating spending, and eliminating uncertainty for the private-sector innovators and entrepreneurs who create jobs.” Down load a PDF format of ‘A Pledge to America’ here. This new governing agenda is comprised of five specific policy plans: • Creating Jobs. “A Pledge to America” reflects Americans’ demand for immediate action on policies that will end uncertainty for small businesses and help our economy get back to creating jobs. This new governing agenda contains a plan to create jobs, end economic uncertainty, and make America competitive – including stopping all tax hikes, reining in red tape, and repealing ObamaCare’s ‘1099 mandate’ that puts severe burdens on small businesses. • Cutting Spending. “A Pledge to America” embodies Americans’ rejection of the now-thoroughly discredited notion that we can simply tax, spend, and borrow our way to prosperity. This new governing agenda contains a plan to cut spending and reduce the size of government – including cutting government spending to pre-‘stimulus,’ pre-bailout levels, imposing a hard cap on future discretionary spending, and ending TARP once and for all. • Reforming Congress. “A Pledge to America” acknowledges that we cannot get our arms around the issues of the day when we have a government that refuses to listen to the people and ignores their priorities. This new governing agenda contains a plan to reform Congress and restore trust – including implementing ‘read the bill’ reform, allowing for more open and fair debate, and requiring that every bill contain a citation of constitutional authority. • Repealing and Replacing the Job-Killing Health Care Law. “A Pledge to America” recognizes that the American people continue to squarely oppose the government takeover of health care, with its higher costs, higher taxes, job-killing mandates, and Medicare cuts to pay for a massive new entitlement. This new governing agenda contains a plan to repeal and replace the job-killing health care law with common-sense reforms focused on lowering costs and protecting American jobs. • A Strong National Defense. “A Pledge to America” reinforces Congress’s responsibility to help provide for a strong national defense and fashion a coherent strategy to confront and defeat the terrorist threat. This new governing agenda contains a plan to keep our nation secure at home and abroad – including passing clean troop funding bills, keeping terrorists off American soil, and fully funding missile defense.
09.20.2010	Congressman Mike Simpson has signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 5523, the Firearms Freedom on Federal Lands Act, introduced by Representative Denny Rehberg (R-MT). The bill extends second amendment rights to Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) lands, ensuring the permanency of hunting and gun rights on our federal lands. “This bill is essentially a preemptive strike at any attempt to ban hunting on federal lands,” said Simpson. “We have to be proactive to protect our rights, and I hope Democrats and Republicans in Congress can act to do so.” While the Forest Service and the BLM do not currently restrict firearms, there has been concern amongst Members of Congress that the administration may move to do so. Members point to recent climate change regulations issued by the Department of the Interior and a leaked secret document revealing administration plans to recommend 13 million acres of land to be designated as new National Monuments. Last year, Congress voted to prevent the National Park Service and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Refuges from banning firearms; this bill extends those same rights to all federal lands. H.R. 5523 prevents any presidential executive order or regulation from banning or restricting firearms and keeps the authority with state governments. Simpson is the Ranking Member on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, which oversees both the Forest Service and the BLM.
09.16.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined over 70 of his republican colleagues in signing a discharge petition for H.R. 5141, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act. Representative Daniel Lungren (R-CA) introduced H.R. 5141 on April 26, 2010. This legislation would repeal the expansion of information reporting requirements for payments of $600 or more to corporations included as part of HR 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “This requirement must be repealed,” said Simpson. “During these difficult economic times, we should not be creating new unnecessary, expensive and burdensome regulations on small businesses that they cannot afford. We should repeal this provision and instead focus on promoting measures that would encourage small businesses to grow and create jobs.” The Internal Revenue Service’s own National Taxpayer Advocate highlighted several problems with this requirement in a recent report: “[T]he new reporting burden, particularly as it falls on small businesses, may turn out to be disproportionate as compared with any resulting improvement in tax compliance." "[S]mall businesses may have to acquire new software or pay for additional accounting services, incurring additional costs.” “In our view, it is highly likely that the IRS will improperly assess penalties that it must abate later, after great expenditure of taxpayer and IRS time and effort.” “[S]mall businesses that lack the capacity to track customer purchases may lose customers, leaving the economy with more large national vendors and less local competition.” The National Federation of Independent Business says this provision will have a “direct negative impact on small businesses.” In a statement, the increased costs and burdens resulting from this 1099 provision, which was created without any input or discussion from the small business community. When a majority of Members of Congress sign the Discharge Petition for H.R. 5141, it will force House Leadership to bring the bill to the floor for a vote. ###
09.15.2010	Congressmen Denny Rehberg (MT-AL), Allen Boyd (FL-02), Vernon Ehlers (MI-03), Mike Simpson (ID-02) and Walt Minnick (ID-01) have announced the House passage of their resolution in the House of Representatives supporting recreational aviation and backcountry airstrips on America’s public lands. “Aviation has become as important to the modern West as horses were to the early explorers, trappers and prospectors,” said Congressman Rehberg, a member of the House General Aviation Caucus. “There are too many benefits to backcountry strips to list them all. They enable search and rescue, fire management, research, disaster relief and wildlife management. In the event of mechanical problems or inclement weather, they serve as emergency landing sites when larger airports are out of reach. They allow public access to some of the most beautiful, remote federal lands in America—regardless of one’s physical ability—and they serve as efficient access points for tourists, who in turn contribute to local economies and small businesses. I'm pleased that we were able to get this done.” “For some people, the only way to get to some of the most beautiful places in Idaho is by plane—in fact, in the summer one of the busiest airports in our state is a backcountry airstrip on the Middle Fork of the Salmon River,” said Congressman Simpson, who is Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. “I’m pleased that Congress has recognized the value of these backcountry airstrips and the importance of recreational aviation in America.” “Backcountry airstrips are a valued part of Idaho’s rugged heritage and provide vital access to the most remote parts of our state,” Congressman Minnick said. “I have been fortunate to have flown into many of these airstrips in Idaho’s backcountry and I want future generations of Idahoans to enjoy them as well.” “Backcountry airstrips are a big part of life for many Americans, and should be protected,” said Congressman Ehlers. “They serve as access to beautiful backcountry wilderness areas that would otherwise be unreachable by other means, allowing people to hike and camp. More importantly, it provides access for firefighters, land managers, and other workers. Some are concerned about noise problems, but backcountry airstrips, and the small planes using them, are much quieter than alternatives such as helicopters and highways in dense wilderness areas.” "As a pilot, I understand the important role backcountry airstrips play to rural communities, aviation enthusiasts and tourists across the country," said Congressman Boyd, co-chair of the House General Aviation Caucus. "I am pleased to have the opportunity to work with my colleagues to honor the role backcountry airstrips play to our national heritage." Backcountry airstrips are often targeted for closure by powerful special interest groups or simply neglected by bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. Yet, they are a part of life for many Americans. In addition to search and rescue, fire management, research, disaster relief and wildlife management, they also provide access to some of the most beautiful, remote federal lands in America—regardless of one’s physical ability to otherwise enjoy the backcountry. For pilots, in the event of mechanical problems or inclement weather, they serve as emergency landing sites when larger airports are out of reach. Finally, backcountry airstrips serve as efficient access points for tourists, who in turn contribute to local economies and small businesses. “Backcountry airstrips connect vast tracks of wilderness with the rest of the nation. They are vital to emergency rescue, land management, and firefighting operations, and they often provide the only means of access to some of the nation’s most beautiful public lands,” said Craig Fuller, President of Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. “They deserve our protection, and AOPA is pleased that members of Congress recognize the value of keeping them open to the benefit of all Americans.” “The Recreational Aviation Foundation expresses our deepest appreciation to Congressman Rehberg and his colleagues for their leadership and strong support on this important resolution,” said John McKenna, President of the RAF. “This recognition will help protect the airstrips that provide safe havens for pilots in emergency situations, as well as provide public benefits such as a means for search and rescue and firefighting. The Congressman's efforts in protecting recreational airstrips will also ensure increased opportunities for all Americans to access our wild and beautiful country.” McKenna lives and works in Bozeman, Montana, the headquarters of the national non-profit organization.
09.14.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined Republican Appropriation Committee Members in sending a letter to Chairman David Obey calling for any Continuing Resolution (CR) legislation to be "clean" and free of any extraneous spending or policy provisions. Because Congress has failed to pass a single appropriations bill this year, a CR will be necessary to continue government operations past the end of the fiscal year, which expires on September 30th. "We have serious and growing concerns about the process and composition of any potential CR… At a time of extreme spending and political fatigue, it is simply unacceptable to use a must-pass CR as a legislative vehicle for more wasteful federal spending or completing an array of unfinished political business before the election,” the Republican Members wrote. “It is becoming very clear that Congressional Democrats are planning to use the CR as a way to approve even more unnecessary and extraneous spending and to implement policies that lack the support of Congress and the American people,” said Congressman Simpson. “Just like every American family must create a budget and then keep to it, Congress has a responsibility to pass its own spending plans and not force through additional spending that isn’t accounted for as part of the process. This letter makes it clear that Republicans will not support these efforts.” The letter also stated, “We want to make our position abundantly clear: we will not support efforts to pass a CR that contains any unnecessary spending or legislative provisions unrelated to maintaining government operations. We respectfully request that you fashion a CR true to the purpose of temporarily continuing the activities of government at the absolute minimum level necessary until we finish our work on the fiscal year 2011 spending bills.” The full text of the letter is attached.
09.10.2010	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today sent a letter to Secretary of Interior Ken Salazar asking that the Department of Interior work to immediately address to issues of critical importance in Idaho. Simpson and Minnick asked for cooperation from the Department to find solutions on the issues of wolf management in Idaho and potential changes to recreational activities on Lake Lowell in Canyon County - in both cases they express their willingness to fix these problems through legislation if necessary. Simpson and Minnick expressed deep concern about the impact that the recent court decision to put wolves back on the Endangered Species list is having on the State of Idaho. “There can be no doubt that wolves are now a fully recovered species in the interior West and that state management of wolves is not only warranted, but necessary,” wrote the Congressmen. “We urge you to use any and all authorities available under existing law to ensure state management of wolves continues.” The letter continues, “We would prefer for this matter to be resolved cooperatively and outside of the legislative process, but should the Department find itself unable to meet the request of Governor Otter and should wolves remain protected under the Endangered Species Act, we will work with you to find a legislative remedy that allows the Department to delist wolves and turn over management to the State of Idaho.” The Congressmen also pushed for the Department to preserve traditional recreational uses on Lake Lowell. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is currently considering a new Comprehensive Conservation Plan for Deer Flat National Wildlife Refuge, and many Idahoans are concerned that the Service will curtail boating and other activities on the lake. “The people of Idaho are, unfortunately, well-accustomed to the inevitable loss of access that has accompanied any re-evaluation of multiple uses on federally managed property over the past few decades,” wrote Simpson and Minnick. “Given their prior experiences, our constituents keenly sense that the outcome of this process may be pre-determined and that recreational boating will be the clear loser….In the strongest possible terms, we urge you and the Department of Interior to take immediate steps to reassure the people of Idaho that recreational boating, including waterskiing and other uses, will not be significantly curtailed.” In February of 2009, Minnick and Simpson also urged the President to allow Idaho’s first wolf hunting season, which Idaho Department of Fish and Game officials, reported as a success. Congressman Simpson is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, which oversees funding for the Department of the Interior.
07.28.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today praised the House passage of the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. “This bill provides critical funding for our nation’s veterans, and I am pleased to see that the House has approved this legislation in a timely manner,” said Simpson. “Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedom, and we have a responsibility to provide them with the very best service in return.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs bill provides funding for military construction projects on bases in the United States and throughout the world, and it also provides funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Veterans Health Administration. Funding is provided for a variety of veterans’ programs, including compensation for veterans and survivors, pension payments for disabled veterans, widows and children, training and tuition assistance, and veterans’ medical care and treatment. “Taking care of our veterans is one of our highest priorities as a nation,” said Simpson. “I am proud that this bill provides sufficient funding to ensure they receive the care and treatment they deserve.” The bill passed the House by a vote of 411-6. It now awaits consideration in the Senate.
07.27.2010	Today, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson spearheaded Republican efforts to examine the waste of taxpayer dollars by abandoning Yucca Mountain as our nation’s long-term disposal site for nuclear materials. The hearing was largely bipartisan, as both Democrats and Republicans pushed Department of Energy (DOE) Under Secretary Kristina M. Johnson and other officials to justify their decision to close Yucca Mountain and look elsewhere after 25 years of planning at that site. Simpson began his questioning by stating, “I honestly don’t believe that anybody within the Department of Energy or here (in the Committee) believes that a good decision was made by shutting down Yucca Mountain.” He would later add after the hearing, “The simple truth is a campaign promise made between Senator Reid (NV) and President Obama is what now dictates this county’s long-term nuclear waste storage policy. Without a doubt, this Administration has chosen politics over science, and it has already cost billions of taxpayer dollars. Sadly, we do not yet know, and cannot estimate, the amount of taxpayer dollars that will be wasted because of this decision.” The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is currently reviewing the legality of the Administration’s attempt to withdraw the Yucca Mountain licensing application without the consent of Congress, and Congress has not included funding to continue the license application in as part of the relevant House and Senate appropriations bills. Simpson sought answers from the DOE on the issue of funding, asking, “Should the NRC rule, as I believe they correctly will, that the Administration cannot unilaterally withdraw the application, what will the DOE do in terms of the $100 or $200 million that will be necessary to proceed with the licensing application? Will they come in and ask for a reprogramming to do that or will they just ignore it and say ‘we don’t have any funds?” Undersecretary Johnson answered broadly that they will follow the direction of Congress and the NRC should that happen. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water which funds DOE, Simpson supported an amendment offered during consideration of the FY2011 Energy and Water Development Act to provide funding to continue the licensing process, but it was ultimately defeated. After the hearing Simpson said, “This is the most studied piece of land on earth, at the cost of billions of dollars, and is ideal for long term storage, but it is the ONLY site in the country that will not be considered for storage in the future. I am still waiting for an answer to my simple question: why not Yucca? I fear that I already know the answer, as do most Americans: Washington politics.” Simpson is a member of the House Budget Committee, which establishes broad guidelines for funding, and is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development which oversees funding for the Department of Energy, including the Yucca Mountain Project. To watch a video of Congressman Simpson from the hearing, visit his YouTube webpage.
07.22.2010	It’s no surprise that disputes over land use in central Idaho have gone unresolved for decades. This is a complex issue, involving those who depend on this land for their livelihoods and those who know the value of preserving it for future generations. The reality is that complex issues don’t always have simple solutions, and such is the case with CIEDRA. CIEDRA is not a perfect bill. It requires each side to give a bit in order to find an answer. But Idahoans have decided that the gridlock and uncertainty of the status quo is no longer acceptable and have come together to find a solution that ultimately resolves the long-standing conflicts for all stakeholders. From the start, I have said that those who live and recreate in an area should have a say in the management decisions made there. I am proud that CIEDRA balances the needs of all those who live near and use the Boulder-White Clouds. CIEDRA permanently releases 130,000 acres of wilderness study areas from restrictive management into traditional multiple use, allowing mining, ranching, and recreation in areas where it is currently not allowed. By designating three new wilderness areas, it frees those who live and recreate there from the uncertainty of administrative management changes or the possibility that President Obama could further restrict access by unilaterally designating this area as a national monument. CIEDRA provides a solution for ranching families who are on the verge of losing their livelihoods by making them eligible for compensation from private sources, should they voluntarily retire grazing permits. CIEDRA gives Custer County, which is nearly 97% public land, needed assistance for economic development and community services and ensures that communities are better prepared to meet the needs of those who live and visit there. CIEDRA locks in use of the Germania corridor now and into the future and maintains access to many of the best high elevation snowmobile areas while protecting a pristine, wild landscape for future generations. Some folks would have you believe that CIEDRA isn’t necessary—or that it doesn’t go far enough to protect this land—but most Idahoans know that the best response to a problem is to find a solution. After years of collaboration and compromise, I know that CIEDRA is that solution, and I hope we take hold of the opportunity to control our own destiny by rallying around it.
07.22.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today fought to rein in unnecessary regulations coming from the Environmental Protection Agency. Simpson, who is Ranking Member of the House subcommittee that funds the EPA, offered a number of amendments during subcommittee markup of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY2011 intended to prevent the EPA from implementing onerous regulations that would negatively impact the economy. First, Simpson offered an amendment to prohibit the EPA from using taxpayer dollars to implement laws or regulations that would expand EPA jurisdiction over state waters. Congressional Democrats are currently working to remove the term “navigable waters” from the definition of waters subject to EPA regulation under the Clean Water Act. Currently non-navigable waters are regulated by the states. “Most farmers and ranchers I talk to are scared to death about the possibility that the EPA would be able to regulate their irrigation ditches, drainage ponds, and even groundwater, and I understand why,” said Simpson. “In the West, water is critical to our way of life. Giving the federal government jurisdiction over Idaho’s water would have a devastating impact on rural communities throughout our state and the food supply throughout our nation.” Unfortunately, the amendment was not accepted by the subcommittee but instead failed on a party-line vote. Simpson also offered an amendment to add report language to the bill to put the Committee on record opposing efforts by the EPA to require dairy producers to develop oil spill prevention plans in the event of a milk spill. A recently implemented EPA rule would lump dairy producers and processers in with oil companies, which are required to have oil spill prevention plans for storage containers that hold 1,320 gallons or more of oil of any kind. The EPA asserts that milk, which contains animal fat, falls under the requirement. The rule would impact between 70 and 80 percent of dairy operations in the US, and producers that don’t comply would face punitive damages and fines every day they are not in compliance. “Frankly, I find it absolutely ridiculous that, in its zeal to respond to the crisis in the Gulf, the EPA has decided that milk is an environmental hazard,” said Simpson. “Our dairy industry has faced devastating losses in recent years, and having to comply with these unnecessary regulations would make it that much harder for Idaho dairy producers to weather the terrible economic storm they are in.” The subcommittee accepted the amendment without objection. The Interior and Environment Appropriations Act now goes before the full House Appropriations Committee for consideration.
07.22.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today successfully defended grazing on public lands in the West during the subcommittee markup on the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2011. Simpson, who is Ranking Member of the House subcommittee that funds the Bureau of Land Management and other land management agencies, offered an amendment to strike language from the bill that would have created a voluntary grazing buyout. Simpson’s amendment was accepted by a vote of 13-1. “In the West, we know that if you don’t graze on public lands, you don’t graze at all,” said Simpson. “Creating a federal buyout program is a dangerous step toward ending grazing on public lands, which would have a devastating impact on local economies throughout the West and would have unintended consequences on the environment. Now is not the time to ignite another War on the West.” In addition to striking buyout language from the bill, Simpson’s amendment inserted language to allow the BLM to continue working through the growing backlog of grazing permits that need to be reprocessed. Similar language has been included in the Interior Appropriations bill since 1998, and the BLM requested that it be added again because of the positive impact it has had in allowing the agency to focus on environmentally sensitive areas without unnecessarily disrupting ranching in the West. “The truth is that we need a comprehensive solution to the challenges posed by our current grazing policies, which are resulting in unmanageable backlogs that negatively impact ranchers and prevent agencies from spending their time and resources enacting good land management policies,” said Simpson. “This language gives the BLM one more tool in the tool chest to help address the current backlogs, and I will continue to work with the Department of the Interior and the Forest Service to develop a thoughtful, responsible, and long-term strategy that protects grazing interests while better monitoring range conditions and preserving ecologically sensitive rangelands.” Simpson was also able to add language to the bill that would require the Department of the Interior to report on fees paid out under the Equal Access to Justice Act. These fees have not been tracked since the mid-1990’s. The Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY2011 will now be considered by the full House Appropriations Committee.
07.21.2010	Of all the rumors about what my CIEDRA bill does or doesn’t do, the most common rumor I hear is that this bill is going to give away vast swaths of state land and dramatically increase federal regulation in our state. These claims are absolutely false. Idahoans deserve the truth about this bill and about land designations in the Boulder-White Clouds. First and foremost, it is important to know that CIEDRA does not give any state or private lands to the federal government. It does not create any additional federal land. In fact, the only land transfers in the bill give federal land to local counties to be used for important public purposes, like a cemetery, a waste transfer station, a fire station, and a school bus turnaround. Most areas affected by CIEDRA are existing federal lands that are currently designated as wilderness study areas. As such, the federal government already manages them as if they were wilderness, which means that land use in this area is significantly restricted right now. Because the federal government has complete discretion over this land today, federal agencies could further restrict access, or even designate the area as a national monument without any local input. I don’t want to see that happen. I believe that Idahoans should have a say in how this land is managed. In fact, I originally became involved in this issue because the Idahoans whose livelihoods were being threatened by the status quo asked me to help them find a solution to this problem. This is why I have worked for nearly a decade with local ranchers, elected officials, recreationists, and other affected parties to craft legislation to ensure that they are not longer subject to the whim of the federal government. One thing CIEDRA does do is permanently release 130,000 acres of wilderness study areas from restrictive management into multiple use so that it can be used for recreation, ranching, mining, and other traditional purposes. I believe this is vastly preferable to the status quo. So do those who live and recreate in the Boulder-White Clouds and need long-term solutions to the serious land management conflicts in this area. I think that Idahoans can be very proud of the compromise that they have developed to ensure that all Idahoans can use and enjoy the Boulder-White Clouds now and into the future.
07.21.2010	Congressman Mike Simpson has signed an amicus curiae, or “friend of the court” brief, in support of the State of Arizona, which has been sued by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). The suit challenges the state’s strict new immigration law, SB 1070, which helps law enforcement more effectively implement federal immigration laws. “The federal government should focus on coming up with real solutions to our nation’s immigration problems rather than suing states that have been forced into impossible positions because of the federal government’s inaction,” said Simpson. “The Arizona situation is an example of what happens when the federal government fails to secure our borders or address illegal immigration.” The amicus brief contends that the DOJ is mistaken in claiming that Arizona law illegally conflicts with and preempts federal law. Instead, the brief states that Congress, not the executive branch, that has authority to prescribe immigration laws. It also identifies numerous statutes demonstrating that Congress has encouraged state immigration enforcement in the past, with the DOJ recognizing that right. “While a state-by-state approach to border security or immigration enforcement is not the ultimate solution, Arizonans are the front line of our immigration emergency, and the federal government must show the American people that they are serious about solving the problem. This is a wakeup call.” Simpson added, “I also question the decision of the DOJ to sue Arizona while continuing to allow cities to declare themselves ‘sanctuary cities’ for illegal aliens in clear defiance of federal law.” The U.S. District Court in Phoenix is likely to rule on this case before SB 1070 goes into effect at the end of the month. ###
07.20.2010	One of the most contentious issues in the wilderness debate is access. As I have worked with Idaho stakeholders to address serious land management conflicts that exist in the Boulder-White Clouds area of central Idaho, I have heard from a number of Idahoans who are concerned about losing existing access to motorized trails and recreation opportunities. The truth is that CIEDRA seeks to address a number of threats currently facing recreationists in central Idaho, ensuring that they continue to have access to this beautiful area. Right now most of this area is being managed by the federal government as though it is wilderness. If we do nothing, the federal government could at any time increase restrictions through management plans, court decisions, or presidential monument designations. First and foremost, it’s important to know that CIEDRA has no impact on roads that are currently open to cars, trucks, or other recreational vehicles. You will still be able to drive to your favorite spot in central Idaho. If you like to snowmobile or ride OHVs in this area, CIEDRA strikes an important balance to preserve your access. Stakeholders, including ranchers, local officials, conservation groups, and recreationists, have found a compromise that protects this area without significantly reducing access for motorized users, giving them certainty into the future. Under this compromise, CIEDRA limits wilderness designation to areas that have the least impact on motorized and other existing uses and maintains existing snowmobile access in high elevations by adjusting wilderness boundaries so that they do not impact popular snowmobiling areas. CIEDRA also releases wilderness study areas where motorized use is currently limited, giving recreationists more access to these areas than they have today. In drafting the bill, I intentionally excluded the Frog Lake Loop from wilderness so that it will remain open under its current use for motorized and mechanized travel. Finally, of the two existing motorized corridors, CIEDRA closes the Grand Prize trail while ensuring that the Germania corridor must remain open in the future. This is the compromise reached by conservation groups and recreationists, to which I have remained committed throughout this process. If you are interesting in learning more about CIEDRA or viewing maps of the areas impacted by the bill, please visit my website at www.simpson.house.gov/ciedra.
07.20.2010	In the first full House Appropriations Committee markup of the year, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported a Republican proposal to limit government spending. Ranking Member Jerry Lewis offered the alternative funding proposal that would save $31 billion in FY2011 and $341 billion over the next ten years. At today’s hearing, Congressman Mike Simpson said, “We all ought to be concerned about the debt we are incurring that we are putting on our children. We can point fingers at Republicans, at Democrats, it doesn’t matter, but everyone needs to be concerned about the debt we are piling on our children’s future, on our grandchildren’s future, and on our great-grandchildren’s future.” He continued by addressing unemployment benefits and said that while Republicans care about extending the benefits, they think that Congress should pay for the extension. “With the size of the federal budget, don’t you think we can find $33 billion to cut in this budget to pay for unemployment benefits?” The Republican proposal provides $1.09 trillion in regular discretionary spending for Fiscal Year 2011, which is the same as last year’s level. It will save taxpayers $31 billion this year alone, and at least $39 billion less than President Obama’s budget request. While the Administration talks about enacting a domestic spending “freeze” in their budget request, the Republican proposal is the only plan that actually holds non-defense, discretionary spending at or below last year’s levels. “The Democrat majority has spent money hand over fist over the last three years, without regard for the consequences, and what has it gotten us? An unemployment level that is stuck at nearly 10%, disillusioned and distressed citizens, and historic levels of deficits and debt that are spiralling us into economic ruin,” Lewis said, “It is time to put a stop to this self destruction, and make tough fiscal decisions that will put us back on a sustainable and prosperous economic path.” To watch Congressman Simpson’s entire opening statement visit his YouTube page at: http://www.youtube.com/CongMikeSimpson
07.16.2010	For nearly a decade I have worked with Idahoans to solve land management issues in central Idaho. In ten years, it’s easy for the facts to become distorted and the issues that prompted action in the first place to be overlooked. So let’s look at the facts. CIEDRA is an Idaho solution crafted by Idahoans, not federal bureaucrats or outside interests—right down to compromising on which trails to close and which to keep open. For decades, Idaho’s congressional delegation has tried—and failed—to find a solution to the complicated issues in central Idaho because passions run high when it comes to deciding how to manage this land. But eventually, lawsuits, ESA restrictions, and other conflicts forced all parties to reconsider the need to compromise. I began this process ten years ago after a meeting with ranchers. They were under the constant threat of losing their livelihoods because of lawsuits filed against them. I agreed to bring together county commissioners, recreationists, and conservationists to find long-term stability for all interested parties in the face of serious land management conflicts in this area. After working closely with the wide range of stakeholders for a decade, I feel more strongly than ever that the problems caused by the current status of the Boulder-White Clouds must be addressed. If we leave things as they are, we give federal agencies free rein to cut off existing access or change land use policies at any time. There is a real risk that the Obama Administration could unilaterally designate this area as a national monument, giving Idahoans no input into how the land on which they live and recreate is managed. The stakeholders know these challenges can’t be ignored, and they’ve crafted an Idaho solution. Each group has had to compromise, but they are standing behind this bill and the solutions it proposes. They have struck a delicate balance to solve complex issues, including conservation, recreation, and community development, and they have given the East Fork ranchers hope for the future. Most importantly, they make sure that Idahoans have a say in land use decisions in our back yard. Extremists on both sides of this issue may refuse to find middle ground, but for most Idahoans, this solution is one we can’t do without. To learn more about CIEDRA, visit my website at www.simpson.house.gov/ciedra.
07.15.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water, today announced the inclusion of funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy in Fiscal Year 2011. This legislation was approved today by the Subcommittee. This legislation provides $174 million for the new facilities and management at the Idaho National Laboratory, which is an increase of $11.5 million over the President’s request. This additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing facilities, development of new capabilities, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. “This funding demonstrates the continued commitment by the Committee and Congress to revitalize the INL’s infrastructure and maintain its position as the lead nuclear laboratory in the country,” said Simpson. “The employees at the INL should be proud that their cutting edge work is being recognized by the continued investment in the facilities and capabilities at the Lab.” This legislation provides $422 million for cleanup activities at the Idaho National Laboratory, which is a $10 million increase over the President’s request. It also provides $9 million for the National Spent Nuclear Fuel program. This program oversees the regulatory compliance and disposition of DOE-owned spent nuclear fuel, which is even more important given DOE’s efforts to cancel the Yucca Mountain program. This legislation provides no funding to continue the licensing activities at Yucca Mountain. While Republicans offered an amendment to provide $100 million for this program, it was defeated on a party line vote. “The House has repeatedly demonstrated its support for opening Yucca Mountain, and I am disappointed to see that Nevada politics are now setting policy decisions in the House,” said Simpson. While Members usually wait to offer amendments until the full Committee markup, Republicans chose to offer amendments at the Subcommittee because it remains unclear if the full Committee will mark up bills this year. Congressman Simpson offered two amendments at the markup and both were voted down on a party line vote. The bill provides $25 billion for loan guarantees for nuclear power plants and $25 billion for loan guarantees for renewable energy projects. Simpson’s first amendment would have cut the additional funding for the renewable energy projects. “While I strongly support the loan guarantee program as a fiscally sound way to jumpstart our energy industry, I cannot ask taxpayers to provide additional funding for the renewable energy program when there is over $50 billion in loan guarantee authority sitting at the Department of Energy waiting to be awarded,” said Simpson. “We should save our taxpayer dollars until the kinks have been worked out and taxpayers can feel confident that this money is being used in a wise and industrious manner.” Currently, US consumers of nuclear power pay a 0.01 cents per kilowatt hour tax into the Nuclear Waste Fund to pay for the design and construction of a nuclear waste repository, which was being constructed at Yucca Mountain. Given DOE’s attempts to shut down Yucca Mountain, the second amendment Simpson offered would halt the collection of fees paid by consumers until the government meets its commitment to ratepayers to dispose of the nuclear waste. “Why should ratepayers continue to give the government their hard-earned dollars when the government has failed to meet their legal obligation to dispose of the commercial nuclear waste,” Simpson questioned. “This amendment will keep money in the hands of hardworking American families to spend on their needs and to restart our economy instead of putting it in the hands of the government.” This bill was approved by the Subcommittee and now awaits consideration by the full Appropriations Committee.
07.08.2010	Today the Supreme Court ruled 5 to 4 that Second Amendment rights cannot be banned by state and local governments. In the case McDonald v. City of Chicago the Court found that the Second Amendment indeed protects most Americans’ right to own most types of firearms, and that states and local governments do not have the authority to deny that right. “Today is another great day for supporters of the Second Amendment,” Congressman Simpson said. “Just like 2008 when the Court ruled that Washington, D.C.’s gun ban was unconstitutional, they have knocked down Chicago’s similar law.” This ruling is different because the D.C v. Heller case found that the federal government cannot ban firearms because the Second Amendment is an individual right. The McDonald decision expands on that ruling to prohibit states and local governments from making similar restrictions. While the decision itself only undoes a few specific city gun-ban laws in Illinois, it will likely provide the framework by which future unconstitutional gun bans can be overturned in court. “I am encouraged by this decision, and hope to see it used to overturn restrictive and unfair gun bans in many cities across the country.” Simpson added, “This finding will also confine the ability of activist judges to deny citizens rights to bear arms in the future.” Congressman Simpson had signed an Amicus, or “Friend of the Court” Brief to the Supreme Court affirming that state and local governments should not have the right to circumvent the Second Amendment.
06.29.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson congratulated the Nuclear Regulatory Commission’s (NRC) Atomic Safety and Licensing Board for its decision rejecting the Department of Energy (DOE) motion to withdraw the license application for Yucca Mountain today. The Board’s decision noted that the Nuclear Waste Policy Act does not provide the Secretary with the authority to withdraw the application, and it rejects the Secretary’s argument that he can withdraw the application without the approval of Congress. “I congratulate the Board for its commonsense finding,” said Simpson. “Congress has repeatedly shown its support for building a permanent nuclear repository at Yucca Mountain, and this decision is a first step to rejecting DOE’s misguided efforts to waste the billions of dollars and decades of work that have already been invested in the Yucca site.” The Board noted that because Congress directed DOE to file the Application and the NRC to consider the application, “unless Congress directs otherwise, DOE may not single-handedly derail the legislated decision-making process by withdrawing the Application,” and therefore it must deny DOE’s motion. As a member of the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which oversees DOE, Simpson has often challenged the Secretary on this issue. “The Yucca Mountain repository has been thoroughly studied and is demonstrated to be a safe, suitable repository for our nation’s spent nuclear fuel and defense waste,” said Simpson. “I strongly support efforts to move forward on this project and avoid further unnecessary delays.” While this is a significant victory for pro-Yucca advocates, it is an interim one. The full Commission now has the authority to take up the order and vote to support or overturn this finding.
06.17.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a member of the newly re-formed Congressional Caucus on Beef. The House Beef Caucus will elevate awareness of issues that impact the beef and cattle industry in order to better educate and inform members of the House and their staff about cattle and beef production in the United States. “House caucuses are often bipartisan and are a great mechanism for bringing awareness to important issues,” said Simpson. “The U.S. cattle industry faces many challenges, and Congress needs to be better informed of their issues in order to make better decisions. I’m hopeful this caucus will help address these concerns.” The U.S. beef industry faces a wide range of challenges, including international trade, animal health, food safety, environment, conservation, and economic viability. The House Beef Caucus will provide the opportunity to speak as a collective voice about the importance ranching plays in our country and will utilize opportunities in Congress to help ranchers succeed.
06.17.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined Western colleagues in expressing concern about EPA’s efforts to regulate energy production from biomass combustion under the Clean Air Act. Simpson signed a letter to EPA asking that the agency postpone implementing the rule while it reconsiders its decision. The EPA recently released its final PSD Tailoring Rule outlining which stationary sources of carbon emissions will be subject to EPA’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions control regulations, which will be implemented beginning in January 2011. Although the draft regulation did not propose regulating emissions from biomass combustion, the EPA reversed its decision in the final rule. Both Congress and the Administration have consistently recognized biomass as a clean renewable energy resource. “We are writing to express our deep disappointment and concern over the EPA’s decision in its final PSD Tailoring Rule to depart from the government’s consistent past practice of excluding biomass combustion emissions in calculating GHG emissions,” the letter states. “This decision contracts federal precedent regarding the carbon neutrality of biomass combustion and will discourage the responsible development and utilization of renewable biomass that could and should play a more significant role in our nation’s energy policy.” Simpson has long promoted biomass not only as a resources that provides clean, renewable energy, but also as a mechanism through which forests can be properly managed and the risk of catastrophic wildfires on public and private lands can be reduced. Biomass energy product also puts to use a byproduct that would otherwise be wasted or burned in the open. “There is enormous potential to generate renewable energy from waste products gathered on public and private lands,” the letter continues. “This includes byproducts of preventative treatments that are removed to reduce hazardous fuels, to reduce or contain disease or insect infestation, or to restore forest health…Further, this would help stimulate the economies of rural communities surrounded by federal lands by creating jobs.” “In light of the EPA’s decision to reverse federal and international precedent and ignore clear Congressional intent regarding biomass utilization, we respectfully request a written detailed response explaining your plan to reconsider the treatment of emissions of biogenetic carbon dioxide under the PSD and Title V programs,” the letter concludes.
06.16.2010	Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 5529, the Children of Fallen Warriors AMT Relief Act. This legislation would protect the surviving children and spouses of service members killed on active duty from facing a punitive tax on their survivor benefits. “Our brave men and women in uniform stand in the gap between us and those who wish to do our country harm, and when they sacrifice their lives in the line of duty, it is our responsibility to ensure their families receive the treatment they deserve,” said Simpson. “The last thing that the families of fallen servicemen and women need is to see their taxes skyrocket.” The Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) was created in 1969 to close loopholes used by the super-rich to avoid paying taxes. Unfortunately, because the current tax system classifies the survivor benefits as unearned income, the survivor benefits provided to some eligible children could be taxed under the significantly higher tax rates created by the AMT. H.R. 5529 would reclassify these annuities as earned income, ensuring that they fall under normal tax regulations instead of the punitive AMT. “The fact that the children and spouses of service members killed in action are being taxed under a system designed to keep multi-millionaires from itemizing their taxes away makes it abundantly clear that the AMT is one of the worst provisions of the current tax code,” said Simpson. “Fundamental reform of our tax system is critical, and H.R. 5529 is a step in the right direction.”
06.15.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today in favor of a motion to repeal the individual mandate, which requires individuals to purchase health insurance. The Motion to Recommit was offered by Congressman Dave Camp from Michigan. “There can be little doubt that the mandate to purchase health insurance in Obamacare is unconstitutional and needs to be removed,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. Simpson also noted that supporters of Obamacare who compare the mandate in the bill to requirements on automobile liability insurance are misguided. “Supporters of Obamacare often say, ‘You have to purchase car insurance, what is the difference?’ What they are missing is the freedom of choice. Individuals choose to buy and drive vehicles; it is not a requirement of citizenship. By mandating that all Americans purchase health insurance, the government is taking away your freedom to choose. We must repeal this mandate.” The Motion failed with a vote of 230-187. Congressman Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R.4995 which would repeal individual and employer mandates enacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
06.09.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Budget Committee, today questioned Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on the economy, the national debt, and the budget. The hearing occurred the day after a report from the Treasury Department was released stating that the U.S. debt will top $13.6 trillion this year and reach an estimated $19.6 trillion by 2015. “My main take-away from this hearing is that Chairman Bernanke, our nation’s top banker, feels that Congress' inability to address the national debt or to pass a budget will have a negative effect on the economy,” said Simpson. He added, “The American people are demanding a plan to address the national debt and pass a responsible budget. Democratic leadership and the Administration must present a plan, or in the very least, allow the Republicans to put theirs forward.” It is looking more and more likely that for the first time since the modern budgeting system was created in 1974, the House of Representatives will not consider a federal Budget. This is happening while people across the country remain unemployed, our national debt continues to grow, and government spending skyrockets. “We all agree that the federal budget is on an unsustainable path,” said Simpson. “More spending and artificial stimulation of the economy is not the answer. Instead, Congress can develop both short and long term solutions to the debt problem, which will inspire more confidence in the markets, and help turn the economy around.”
06.08.2010	Members of Idaho’s Congressional Delegation and Boise Mayor David Bieter announced today that the Boise Airport will retain the TRACON radar control system. During personal telephone calls today to Delegation Members and the Mayor, U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the department is dropping plans to co-locate the Boise TRACON with Salt Lake City. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had wanted to move the Boise system because of alleged cost savings, but the Delegation and Mayor had challenged the budget figures and argued that safety and jobs would be best preserved by keeping the existing system in place with the move to a new airport control tower. Secretary Ray LaHood agreed. “I was pleased to speak directly with the Secretary today and am glad that the FAA has made a decision that looks to the best interests of Idahoans and is based on facts instead of best guesses,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “With this decision behind us, I am hopeful that we can look forward to ensuring that the Boise Airport can continue to support economic growth in the Treasure Valley.” “I appreciate speaking with Secretary LaHood today and applaud his decision to maintain a Terminal Approach Radar in Boise,” said Senator Mike Crapo. “This is the best solution in terms of cost and safety for Southwest Idaho air traffic control. Additionally, it will preserve good-paying jobs at the Boise Airport as we build toward future growth and development.” “Leaving the TRACON in Boise was the right decision for the FAA to make. From a cost and efficiency standpoint the facts are clear that leaving the radar operation in Boise was the only decision they could make,” said Senator Jim Risch. “This is great news for Idaho travelers and for Idaho's economy,” said Congressman Walt Minnick. “The decision to keep the TRACON tower at the Boise Airport is not only the most cost-effective solution for taxpayers, but it is also a fitting way to remember and honor the legacy of my friend Ed Stimpson, who was a true leader in aviation safety. Not only will passengers be more certain of safe travel, but the men and women who keep them safe will continue to do their jobs in Idaho and help keep our economy on the road to recovery.” "This decision is great news for Boise and for every traveler and business that depends on the Boise Airport," Mayor David Bieter said. "By keeping TRACON here, we will preserve high quality local jobs, ensure continued safety and convenience for travelers and protect the airport's position as a major hub for aviation and commerce. I applaud the FAA for keeping this important asset in Boise. This victory is the result of four years of hard work by Idaho's congressional delegation, the late Ed Stimpson, former US Ambassador and Boise Airport Commissioner, and the City of Boise. It's time to celebrate."
05.26.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded this week’s roll-out of the America Speaks Out project. America Speaks Out is a new Republican effort to seek feedback from the American people on current and future policy ideas and initiatives. The project is intended to give Americans the opportunity to have a say about the direction the government should take on issues facing our country today. “Over the past year, Idahoans have expressed to me how frustrated they are that Washington is not listening to them. It’s long past time to bring government back to the people,” said Simpson. “America Speaks Out gives them an opportunity to take back the reins from those who believe that government, not the people government represents, knows best, and I’m excited to have the chance to dialog with the Idahoans who participate.” To learn more about America Speaking Out, please visit here. Congressman Simpson invites Idahoans who are interested in voicing their views through this initiative to visit his website.
05.20.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored legislation to ensure that American taxpayers are not put at risk by international efforts to bail out Greece and other European Union nations. H.R. 5299, the European Bailout Protection Act, would halt U.S. participation in the roughly $950 billion package recently announced by the EU and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to assist nations facing financial crises. “There is no doubt that Greece’s serious debt crisis could have ramifications here at home, but I am deeply concerned about the long-term implications that bailing out other countries have for both the global economy and the U.S. economy,” Simpson said. “Putting other nations at risk because one country overspent and racked up enormous amounts of debt is a dangerous precedent to set.” In spite of the fact that the Treaty on European Union requires EU member states to stay below a government budget deficit ceiling of 3% of GDP, Greece currently has a budget deficit of over 13%. In response to Greece’s financial crisis, the EU and the IMF, to which the United States is the largest global contributor, have taken unprecedented steps to bail out heavily indebted European governments. H.R. 5299 would prohibit U.S. funding for efforts by the IMF to provide finance to any EU nation until all EU nations are in compliance with their own debt ratio requirements. “Fiscal restraint is necessary for a healthy economy, and the international community should encourage responsibility, not reward reckless behavior,” said Simpson. “Greece’s situation should sound an ominous warning about our own out-of-control federal deficit and the impact that it has on our nation’s economy and taxpayers, as well as future generations of Americans who will be expected to pay it down. Getting our financial house in order is my top priority.”
05.20.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues in sending a letter to Mexican President Felipe Calderon Hinojosa encouraging him to loosen trade restrictions on U.S. potatoes. Calderon is currently visiting Washington, DC, and the letter was hand-delivered today during a meeting with lawmakers. “Giving U.S. potato growers full access to the market in Mexico would have a dramatically positive impact on the Idaho potato industry,” said Simpson. “I am hopeful that President Calderon will recognize that reducing trade barriers would prove beneficial to both of our countries.” Mexico currently limits shipments of U.S. potatoes to areas within 26 kilometers of the border. The Mexican government claims that these restrictions are necessary to ensure that pests from U.S. potatoes are not spread to Mexican crops, but U.S. potato producers exporting to Mexico are subject to the same requirements to manage risks of diseases and pests as domestic producers who ship their products throughout Mexico. The letter calls on the Mexican government to provide the same treatment for U.S. potato imports that domestic potatoes get. “The supplies of fresh potatoes produced domestically in Mexico are not adequate in quantity to meet the needs of Mexican consumers and processors on a year round basis,” the letter reads. “Access to high quality U.S. fresh potatoes at prices which are lower than domestically produced potatoes will improve the well being of Mexican consumers and the productivity of Mexican potato processors…Treating U.S. potato imports in a similar manner as potatoes produced in Mexico would be good for Mexican consumers and would encourage the mutually beneficial trade relationship we both seek.”
05.20.2010	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today praised a decision by the U.S. Department of Energy to provide federal loan guarantees for construction of the Eagle Rock Uranium Enrichment Plant near Idaho Falls. AREVA officials say the project would create 400 permanent jobs near Idaho Falls, create another 1,000 construction jobs and result in the creation of up to 5,000 jobs in related services. The Energy Department announced today that AREVA’s U.S. subsidiary, AREVA Enrichment Services LLC, will obtain $2 billion in federal loan guarantees to assist in construction of the Idaho project. All four members of the Idaho Delegation have supported the project in letters and phone calls and note that appropriate federal support will lead to the expansion of clean nuclear power. They said the DOE Loan Guarantee Program is among the few policy tools immediately available to deliver market-ready innovative, clean energy technologies that will have economic and environmental impacts. “Developing new U.S.-based sources of uranium enrichment is critical to the country being able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, achieving energy independence, having a reliable supply for domestic power reactors and protecting our national security,” said Crapo. “If we are going to have a chance at reducing greenhouse gas emissions, a robust expansion of nuclear power is the only way to do it without tanking the economy. The Eagle Rock plant will be one of Idaho’s contributions to this worthy and attainable goal.” “This loan guarantee from the Department of Energy is a crucial step in meeting the demand for a reliable, U.S.-based source of enriched uranium to fuel our nuclear power plants,” said Risch, a member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee. “It is also a great benefit to our local communities and the state for the positive economic impact the new construction and permanent operation jobs that will come about from this facility.” “I want to congratulate AREVA and the people of Eastern Idaho who have worked so hard to secure this loan guarantee and bring the Eagle Rock facility to our state,” said Simpson, a member of the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Department of Energy and the Loan Guarantee program. “Nuclear energy must play a strong role in our nation’s energy future and the Eagle Rock facility’s contribution to that future will be enormous.” "This project will have impact far beyond Idaho Falls,” said Minnick. “Alternative energy solutions such as nuclear power and woody biomass are a crucial part of our work toward an economic recovery. This project will help Idaho businesses and universities do just that, and will help meet our shared goal of Idaho becoming a national leader in the new energy future."
05.17.2010	“Every year the House Budget Committee starts the budget process by creating the federal budget resolution, which then goes to the House floor for a vote. It is one of the few things that Congress must do every year: it sets the spending framework within which Congress must work that year, and creates a budget picture for years into the future. It is one of the basic responsibilities of Congress, upon which every spending decision is based. You may not have heard, but this year, there is no budget. “The deadline for a House budget passed with little fan-fare on April 15th, and while the President has submitted his unbinding proposal and the Senate has begun consideration of their version, Speaker Pelosi and the House Democrats appear unwilling to reveal theirs. Without a House budget, there is no federal budget. There will be no spending limits and no plan to address deficits. Congress will likely pass a “deeming resolution,” which deems the budget passed at their chosen limit, but it won’t set a discretionary spending cap or require consistency between the House and Senate spending bills. Democrats have indicated that they also may punt responsibility to a budget commission, which is akin to the pilot asking a passenger to fly the plane while he takes a nap. Passing a budget is Congress’s responsibility, and to fail to pass a budget would be negligent. “In a year when spending restraint and long term budgeting are more crucial than ever, you may ask why there is no budget. The truth is disheartening. Speaker Pelosi simply doesn’t want her members to be on the record as supporting what could be the largest federal budget in history and she doesn’t want them to be forced to explain themselves to their constituents before elections this fall. A budget would reveal the trillion dollar deficits and expose the results of the reckless spending of the last several years, made drastically worse this year by passage of the budget-busting health care bill. However, a $1.5 trillion yearly deficit is not something you can hide from. “Democrat leaders have said it best themselves in years past -- in 2006 Representative Steny Hoyer said that enacting a budget was “the most basic responsibility of governing,” and the top Democrat on the House Budget Committee, John Spratt, said, “If you can’t budget, you can’t govern.” I couldn’t agree more. “Yet this will be the first time since the 1974 Congressional Budget Act that the House will fail to pass a budget. As families and businesses across the country continue to make sacrifices and cut their budgets, Congress can’t be bothered to even create theirs. As we move forward this month, I sincerely hope Democrat leadership changes course and begins the regular budget process. Only then can Congress start implementing responsible spending limits and begin working on slowing down the growth of government and the national debt.” Congressman Simpson is a member of the House Budget Committee.
05.09.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined fellow Republicans in cosponsoring H.R. 4995, End the Mandate Act of 2010. The legislation, authored by Rep. Ron Paul, would restore the freedom to choose health insurance by repealing the mandate that all Americans obtain government-approved health insurance. “There can be little doubt that the mandate to purchase health insurance in Obamacare is unconstitutional and needs to be removed,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “I simply cannot accept that our Founding Fathers would permit the federal government to compel the purchase of a private product as a condition of citizenship. It is unprecedented, unwarranted, and un-American.” Simpson went on to say that efforts among supporters of Obamacare to compare the mandate in the bill to requirements on automobile liability insurance are misguided. “Supporters of Obamacare often say, ‘You have to purchase car insurance, what is the difference?’ What they are missing is the freedom of choice. Individuals choose to buy and drive vehicles; it is not a requirement of citizenship. By mandating that all Americans purchase health insurance, the government is taking away your freedom to choose. We must repeal this mandate.” H.R.4995 would repeal individual and employer mandates enacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.
05.05.2010	In the U.S. House of Representatives today, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson recognized teachers across the United States for their critical role in shaping our nation's future. This week is National Teacher Appreciation Week. In a floor speech Simpson said, “As Congress considers education reform legislation, we must keep in mind the needs of educators, who have the most important job of all -- preparing our young people for the future.” Teacher quality has been proven to be the single most important factor influencing student learning and achievement. Studies have found that 40 to 90 percent of the difference in student test scores can be attributed to teacher quality. Simpson concluded his remarks with, “Teachers play a critical role in shaping our future. They touch the lives of children every day. They inspire, encourage, motivate, and educate the next generation. I applaud their efforts and thank them for their dedication.” Some researchers and policymakers estimate that school districts will have to hire about 200,000 teachers annually over the next decade to keep pace with rising student enrollments and teacher retirements, for a total of 2.2 million additional teachers. A full copy of Congressman Simpson floor speech is attached.
05.01.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson assumed the temporary role of a House Agriculture Committee member during a field hearing in Nampa today that explored potential changes to legislation impacting our nation’s agriculture policies. The field hearing, held by the House Agriculture Committee, was attended by six members of the House of Representatives including Committee Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN), Ranking Member Frank Lucas (R-OK), and Idaho’s lone member on either the House or Senate Agriculture Committees Walt Minnick. Simpson was allowed to participate under an agreement between the House Agriculture Committee and the House Appropriations Committee. “First and foremost, I want to commend each and every Idaho witness at the hearing today for their insight and outstanding testimony,” said Simpson. “Some of Idaho agriculture’s best advocates spoke today and provided the Committee with an idea of the strengths of the agriculture industry and some of its biggest challenges. I believe my colleagues heard some things today that will make them think very carefully about how we put together a new Farm Bill and how such a bill impacts the very people it is intended to help.” In addition to Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Lucas, attendees included Representative Stephanie Herseth-Sandlin (D-SD) and Representative Jim Costa (D-CA), along with Minnick and Simpson. Idaho witnesses at the hearing included Fred Brossy representing Idaho’s organic agriculture industry, Scott Brown representing the Idaho grain growers, Doug Gross representing Idaho potato growers, Kelly Henggeler representing Idaho fruit growers, Galen Lee representing Idaho sugar growers, Brian Kernohan representing Idaho forestry, Ron Bitner representing the Idaho winegrape industry, Charlie Lyons representing Idaho beef producers, Adrian Boer representing Idaho dairy producers, and Cindy Siddoway representing Idaho’s wool growers. The hearing took direct testimony from each of the Idaho witnesses about the state of their industries and the impact federal farm legislation has on Idaho producers. The Committee is seeking testimony in several field hearings across the United States in preparation for consideration of a new Farm Bill beginning next year. “The impact of the Farm Bill on Idaho’s farming and ranching families cannot be overestimated,” said Simpson. “Our ability to maintain a cheap, safe, and domestic supply of food in the United States is tied directly to the policies put forth in the Farm Bill. Too few people in our nation appreciate the complexities of maintaining a domestic supply of food while too many under appreciate the work, money, and emotion that goes into being a farmer or rancher. We have to do everything we can to keep our food grown right here in the United States and the hearing today helped move us in the right direction.” “I want to commend Congressman Minnick for his leadership in bringing the Committee to Idaho and thank the Committee for allowing me to take part in the hearing,” said Simpson.
04.29.2010	The pro gun demonstrations in Washington, D.C., and the crowds gathered across the Potomac River in Virginia last week were a stark reminder of the passion with which Americans value their personal freedoms. These men and woman journeyed from across the country to remind their government that the Second Amendment, the right to keep and bear arms, is a right guaranteed them as law abiding citizens and is as fundamental as the First Amendment, which allowed them to make their voices heard in the first place. Debate on the floor of the House last week about gun rights and congressional representation in the District of Columbia perfectly illustrated the flaw in anti-gun Members of Congress arguments. They speak eloquently about preserving the constitutional rights of residents of the District of Columbia by granting them a voting Member of Congress, and in the next breath deny them the constitutional right to peacefully keep and bear arms. These members want to pick and choose which constitutional rights they feel Americans deserve to keep. This is a defective line of reasoning, and the American people are not buying it. The gatherings in Virginia themselves were a victory for gun rights supporters. Even one year ago it was illegal to carry a firearm into a national park. One year ago each demonstrator would have been fined or arrested, but last week they were allowed to carry out their peaceful demonstration without interference. This victory is one of many, including the landmark Heller decision by the Supreme Court, that have shown a recent trend toward strengthening the Second Amendment in this country. Indeed, 24 states loosened restrictions on firearms last year alone. That said, the right to bear arms remains under attack from interest groups and politicians, including many Members of Congress who want to erode the Second Amendment by enacting burdensome regulations. There are even Members who would prefer to just eliminate gun rights all together, and abolish the Second Amendment, saying it is outdated and obsolete. They say that the Framers only wrote it out of a distrust of standing armies, that they never intended it to be an individual right of every American. They are wrong. The ability of law abiding citizens to protect themselves, their families and their homes is a right that will never be unnecessary. The right to collect historic firearms or to hunt will never be outdated. These are rights upon which our country was built and maintained, and nothing could be more important. That is why I have once again cosponsored H.R. 5162, the Second Amendment Enforcement Act, which would restore the Second Amendment rights of D.C. residents, as the Supreme Court declared in the Heller case and as is required by the Constitution. Placing blame on a gun after an act of violence is akin to blaming a hammer after completion of a shoddily built home. I will continue to push for stricter penalties for those who use firearms to commit crimes and I will continue to ensure law abiding citizens have the right to peacefully keep and bear arms.
04.28.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined Republican colleagues on the House Budget Committee in sending a letter to Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt requesting a hearing with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Chief Actuary. The Actuary recently released new information concerning the cost of the health care bill signed into law last month. “This massive health care takeover will not save money nor create a better health care system,” said Simpson. “I cannot stress enough the damage that this bill will do. It will make our health care system weaker, not stronger, and it will damage our economy by adding more and more taxes that continue to stunt our economic growth. The public has the right to know what the true costs are of this legislation.” This week, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released an analysis that estimates large tax increases will hit millions of Americans making well below $200,000 annually. CMS also issued its own analysis demonstrating the new health care law will further drive costs upward, not downward, with national health expenditures increasing by an additional $311 billion above original projected costs. Additionally, the new law would adversely impact Medicare providers and reduce Medicare Advantage enrollees by 50%, according to the report. “This is exactly why I and many of my Republican colleagues repeatedly asked Democrat leadership to slow down the process in Congress so we could find the real costs before passing the bill.” Simpson added, “Had these reports come out before the final vote, I believe the bill would not have passed.”
04.27.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of a bill that eliminates the automatic cost of living adjustment (COLA) Members of Congress were scheduled to receive for fiscal year 2011. This is the second year in a row that Members have not received a pay raise, after previously voting to eliminate the COLA for fiscal year 2010. “With job numbers at historic lows and the national debt at record highs, it would simply be unacceptable for Members of Congress to allow themselves any kind of personal pay raise.” said Simpson. “Most of my constituents won’t get a pay raise this year and I shouldn’t either.” The COLA is an annual adjustment in wages to offset a change, usually a loss, in purchasing power. Since 1989 the standard has been to adjust congressional pay on a regular basis by scheduling an annual adjustment, in part to promote consistency and in part to reflect comparable movement in private-sector pay. That adjustment has now been canceled for fiscal years 2010 and 2011. H.R. 5146 passed in the House of Representatives 402-15, with all Republicans voting in favor.
04.26.2010	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick issued the following statement today concerning the announcement of the Idaho National Guard deployment: “First and foremost, our thoughts are with the families whose loved ones will be deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom. We are pleased that the Idaho National Guard will be providing family support training sessions to help prepare them for the deployment. We have always supported efforts to ensure our military men and women have the resources they need to carry out and complete their missions successfully. The 116th Cavalry Brigade Combat Team is home to some of the nation’s finest, and we know they are trained and prepared for their upcoming mission. We wish them success and look forward to welcoming each of them home.” Approximately 1,500 Idaho soldiers form the 116th Cavalry Brigade will be deployed to Iraq for the duration of 12 months beginning this September. The Idaho Army National Guard is headquartered at Gowen Field in Boise, Idaho. Idaho National Guard units are dispersed throughout the state in 27 communities. The 116th Cavalry Brigade is the state’s largest unit.
04.22.2010	Congressman Simpson expressed his concern about border security on land managed by the Department of the Interior along the southern border of the United States. The recent death of Arizona rancher Robert Krentz, who was murdered by an illegal alien who entered the country through the San Bernardino Wildlife Refuge, has underscored the importance of border security on federal land. Simpson, who is Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, sent a letter today to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar expressing his concern about this situation. “Right now we have serious issues with drug and weapons trafficking across the southern border of the United States, which lead to crime problems in our own country and instability in Mexico, making it imperative we tackle the dangerous and growing problem of border security,” wrote Simpson. “Keeping drug dealers, human traffickers, and criminals, like the one who murdered Mr. Krentz, out of our country requires the cooperation of multiple federal agencies.” Most of the federal lands along the southern border are under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, the National Park Service, and other agencies within the Department of Interior. Simpson expressed concern over past reports that bureaucratic hurdles and agency regulations have made it difficult for the Border Patrol to carry out its mission, and he questioned Salazar about how these agencies are coordinating with the Department of Homeland Security to address border security issues. “I have been concerned by past reports that bureaucratic hurdles and agency regulations have made it difficult for the Border Patrol to monitor the border and pursue those who have entered this country illegally,” wrote Simpson. “I look forward to learning more about the Department’s efforts to secure the borders over which they have jurisdiction.”
04.21.2010	Congressman Mike Simpson today came out in strong opposition to H.R. 5088, America’s Commitment to Clean Water Act. This legislation cedes authority over all waters in the United States to the federal government, including water currently regulated by states, and makes it subject to regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Clean Water Act. “We in the West know just how valuable water is to our way of life. By giving the federal government jurisdiction over Idaho’s water, this bill could have a devastating impact on our economy, food supply, and the livelihoods of those in rural communities across our state,” said Simpson. “There is no way around it--this is big government asserting that it knows better than states, local governments, and farmers and ranchers how to manage the water supply in Idaho.” The term “navigable waters” has long been the term which limits federal intrusion with regards to the Clean Water Act’s authority. The Clean Water Restoration Act would remove “navigable waters” from the law and replace it with the phrase “waters of the United States,” effectively resulting in a massive expansion of the federal government’s authority by increasing the number of waters subject to water quality standards. “I am also deeply concerned about the ramifications of this legislation on states’ rights,” said Simpson. “Under this bill, the reach of federal jurisdiction over water in Idaho would be so broad that it could significantly restrict the ability of landowners’ to make decisions about their property and the right of state and local governments to plan for their own development.” Simpson is the Ranking Member on the House appropriations subcommittee that funds EPA. Last year Simpson filed an amendment to the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill to block EPA from implementing any attempt to expand the federal government’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. While Democrat leadership refused to let the amendment be debated on the floor of the House of Representatives, Simpson fully intends to introduce a similar amendment again this year.
04.15.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored legislation to promote job growth and economic stability by providing permanent tax relief for families and small businesses. H.R. 4746, the Taxpayer Certainty Act, would make permanent tax relief provisions enacted in 2001 and 2003, including lower tax rates, elimination of the death tax, and reduced rates on capital gains and dividends. “I strongly supported these tax reforms when they were originally passed by Congress because they provided tax relief to all Americans who pay taxes,” said Simpson. “Not only did this tax relief encourage business investment and produce job growth, but it gave American families the opportunity to use and invest the money that they worked hard to earn. Providing them with certainty by making these tax cuts permanent must be a priority for Congress.” Unless Congress acts to make these tax reforms permanent, Idahoans will face significant tax increases next year when the provisions expire. Families will face higher marginal tax rates while simultaneously losing important tax benefits, like marriage penalty relief and the increased child tax credit. “On Tax Day this year, many Americans are struggling to make ends meet and facing difficult economic realities that make their tax burdens feel even heavier,” said Simpson. “Providing families and businesses with permanent tax relief is the best way to jump-start our economy and put us on the path toward long-term financial security.” Simpson is also a cosponsor of legislation that would sunset the current complex and unfair federal tax code and replace it with a simple and fair alternative that would provide tax relief for working Americans, protect the rights of taxpayers, reduce tax collection abuses, and eliminate disincentives for savings and investment.
04.13.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is advocating for continued access to recreation on public land, sending a letter to Interior Secretary Ken Salazar regarding the use of the Antiquities Act. The letter followed up to a recent hearing by the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment where Simpson addressed concern that was raised over a Department of Interior internal planning document that identified 17 potential sites for new or expanded national monument designation in the western United States under the Antiquities Act. During the hearing, Salazar committed to Simpson, who is Ranking Republican Member of the Subcommittee, that the Department would not use the Antiquities Act to designate national monuments without consulting with Congress and local officials. The Antiquities Act was passed in 1906 to give the President the authority to preserve prehistoric Native American cultural and archeological sites, but over the years has been used to set aside large areas for geological and cultural preservation. “I recognize the importance of preserving cultural, archeological, and geographic sites, but I am concerned that the Antiquities Act allows national monuments to be designated by executive order without any input from residents and local leaders,” wrote Simpson. “If we decide that an area should be designated as a national monument, it should be done through the legislative process, the way they were originally intended, so that the Antiquities Act is used as a tool for collaboration instead of a hammer.” Simpson has repeatedly raised the issue of public access to federal lands during subcommittee hearings, whether it is reiterating his support for snowmobiling and other recreation opportunities in our national parks, expressing concern about reduced funding for roads on Forest Service lands, or securing a commitment from the Administration to look at ways to improve the permit process for outfitters and guides.
04.09.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today signed onto H.R. 4901, legislation that repeals the recently enacted Democrat healthcare overall. The bill, offered by Representative Jerry Moran (R-KS) would repeal the bill back to the date of enactment and restore underlying law. “I strongly believe the democrats’ healthcare bill is the wrong direction our nation and may well be unconstitutional,” said Simpson. “I believe the best thing we could do is repeal the bill in its entirety and start over by passing smaller bills that enjoy bipartisan support and focus on bringing down costs for American healthcare consumers.” Simpson also stressed that while working toward a full-scale repeal, Republicans in Congress and in the states should work to change the law in any way possible. “The simple truth is that the prospects for full-scale repeal are slim as long as President Obama is in office and can veto any legislation we might be able to pass through Congress,” said Simpson. “So while we wait for the Presidential election of 2012, we should move forward with other measures that hold more near-term promise of blunting the impact of the Democrats bill. Those efforts include supporting Idaho’s Constitutional challenge to the Democrats bill, amending the bill to alter its most onerous provisions, and seeking limitations on funding of its implementation. Limiting the reach and impact of this bill must be a multi-pronged approach.” Simpson and 70 of his colleagues have cosponsored H.R. 1086, the HEALTH Act. This bill would implement effective medical malpractice reform and put an end to junk lawsuits by placing caps on non-economic damages and limiting attorney fees. This bill would save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. In addition, Simpson supports reforms to prohibit insurers from denying coverage to people because of pre-existing condition as well as reforms to make the purchase of health insurance for individuals tax-exempt like it is for employer-sponsored insurance. He also supports association health plans to create larger purchasing pools and prescription drug re-importation, which would control prescription drug costs by allowing Americans to buy FDA-approved prescription drugs from places such as Canada and Europe where drugs are sold for much less money. Simpson is also one of 67 Members of Congress to sign a pledge to support repeal of the Democrats healthcare reform legislation and passage of legislation that brings down the cost of healthcare without growing the involvement of government.
03.25.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted no tonight on H.R. 4872, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. This legislation passed the U.S. Senate earlier today with a vote of 56-43 and passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a final vote of 220-207. “As I have said before, this bill will ultimately damage the health care system in the United States, not to mention adding another $2 to 3 trillion to our national debt,” said Simpson. “It is unfortunate that Congress didn’t act in a bipartisan fashion to pass commonsense reforms that would have actually brought down the cost of health care for our citizens.” Simpson and 70 of his colleagues have cosponsored H.R. 1086, the HEALTH Act. This bill would implement effective medical malpractice reform and put an end to junk lawsuits by placing caps on non-economic damages and limiting attorney fees. This bill would save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 2607, the Small Business Healthcare Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy health care coverage. Large corporations and labor unions already leverage their size and buying power to secure lower premiums and rates when buying health insurance for their employees and members. This bill would give America's small businesses the same advantages to make health care coverage for their employees more affordable. In addition, Simpson supports reforms to prohibit insurers from denying coverage to people because of pre-existing condition as well as reforms to make the purchase of health insurance for individuals tax-exempt like it is for employer-sponsored insurance. He also supports prescription drug re-importation, which would control prescription drug costs by allowing Americans to buy FDA-approved prescription drugs from places such as Canada and Europe where drugs are sold for much less money.
03.24.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned the Department of Energy on nuclear energy and the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) as part of the Department’s FY2011 Budget Request. Assistant Secretary of Nuclear Energy Pete Miller testified before the Energy and Water Subcommittee, of which Congressman Simpson is a member. During the hearing, Simpson asked Miller about the importance of funding for infrastructure at the INL and across the DOE complex. “If we want to retain the best scientists and the best engineers at our national labs, it is important that we provide them with the best facilities and equipment so they can do their jobs,” said Simpson. “The INL has been upgrading its facilities, and I have seen first-hand what a difference new buildings and infrastructure make.” In his testimony, Assistant Secretary Miller noted that the INL serves as the center for U.S. nuclear energy and development and recognized the importance of the work being done at the INL on a variety of programs, including NGNP, the Advanced Test Reactor, and Fuel Cycle Research, to name a few. Simpson also questioned Miller on the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the need for the Department to work better with industry to move the program ahead. “It is important that the Department and industry work together and reach an agreement on how to move ahead on this important program,” said Simpson. “We need to make sure that industry is involved in the beginning of the process so that the money spent by government on research will actually turn into the deployment of new, innovative technologies.” Simpson is a member of the Appropriations Committee and the Energy and Water Subcommittee which oversees funding for the Department of Energy and the INL. To watch Congressman Simpson discuss the INL with Assistant Secretary Miller visit his YouTube page.
03.24.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned Energy Secretary Steven Chu on DOE’s commitment to abide by the Idaho Settlement Agreement during an Energy and Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee hearing today. The Idaho Settlement Agreement is an agreement between the State of Idaho and the Department of Energy that requires DOE to remove all spent fuel and high level waste by 2035 or face fines for non-compliance. Simpson questioned Chu about maintaining the agreement during the hearing. “Secretary Chu, whether or not I agree with it, I recognize that you have made a decision to shut down Yucca Mountain. As you know, DOE has an agreement with the State of Idaho to have all the waste of out Idaho by 2035. Given the decision on Yucca Mountain, will you guarantee me that the Department of Energy will abide by the Idaho Settlement Agreement and withdraw all waste from Idaho by 2035?” Chu responded that DOE fully intends to fulfill its obligation to the Agreement. “My answer is yes,” he said. Simpson also asked the Secretary about the DOE loan guarantee program. Areva has applied for a $2 billion loan guarantee from the Department to build a uranium enrichment facility named the Eagle Rock Enrichment Facility in eastern Idaho. Simpson pointed out that this application has been under consideration for 18 months. “This has been under review long enough to make a decision,” said Simpson. “Could you tell us when you expect to see a decision made?” Secretary Chu agreed that it was time to finalize the application and make a decision and stated that he expected to see a decision released soon. Simpson is a member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over funding for the Department of Energy and the Idaho National Laboratory. To watch Simpson discuss the Idaho Settlement Agreement with Secretary Chu, visit his YouTube site.
03.21.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted no tonight on HR 3590, legislation that represents the first step to a government takeover of the healthcare system. Despite Simpson’s strong opposition and repeated efforts to defeat the bill, this bill passed the House by a final vote of 219-212. “There is no doubt that this legislation will be challenged in court,” said Simpson. “Beyond the question of its legality, this bill will ultimately damage the health care system in the United States while adding another $2 to 3 trillion to our national debt. At this time, I encourage all Idahoans to support Governor Otter in his effort to challenge its constitutionality in court.” Congressman Simpson has supported a number of commonsense health reform bills that have been introduced in Congress, such as H.R. 1086, the HEALTH Act, and H.R. 2607, the Small Business Healthcare Fairness Act, to name just a few. “Many have said we are the party of 'NO,' but that is simply not the case,” said Simpson. “We have offered several commonsense alternatives that will actually bring down the cost of health care. I am extremely disappointed to see that once again, the Democrats have failed to listen to the American people and chosen to push a partisan takeover of health care instead of passing effective health reform that everyone could support.” Simpson and 70 of his colleagues have cosponsored H.R. 1086, the HEALTH Act. This bill would implement effective medical malpractice reform and put an end to junk lawsuits by placing caps on non-economic damages and limiting attorney fees. This bill would save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 2607, the Small Business Healthcare Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy health care coverage. Large corporations and labor unions already leverage their size and buying power to secure lower premiums and rates when buying health insurance for their employees and members. This bill would give America's small businesses the same advantages to make health care coverage for their employees more affordable. In addition, Simpson supports reforms to prohibit insurers from denying coverage to people because of pre-existing condition as well as reforms to make the purchase of health insurance for individuals tax-exempt like it is for employer-sponsored insurance. He also supports prescription drug re-importation, which would control prescription drug costs by allowing Americans to buy FDA-approved prescription drugs from places such as Canada and Europe where drugs are sold for much less money. “I also believe that we need to do more as a country to focus on prevention and early intervention,” said Simpson. “If we truly want to control the cost of healthcare, individuals must be part of the solution by taking an active role in our overall health.”
03.19.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is an original cosponsor of legislation that would provide a reasonable, long-term solution for fees paid by owners of cabins on Forest Service land. H.R. 4888, the Cabin Fee Act of 2010, would replace the existing flawed appraisal system for determining fees and establish a tiered yearly fee structure based on current appraisals and tied to inflation to eliminate the need for appraisals in the future. In 2000, Congress passed the Cabin User Fee Fairness Act (CUFFA), which was intended to create a fair appraisal process for cabin owners. However, recent appraisals have resulted in steep fee increases for many cabin owners in Idaho. A number of families who have had cabins on Forest Service land for generations are now finding themselves unable to afford the fees. “In spite of Congress’s best intentions when passing CUFFA, Idaho families who own cabins in our National Forests continue to face escalating and unaffordable fees,” said Simpson. “This legislation will provide a realistic, long-term solution that will allow the families who have enjoyed these cabins for years to continue to do so, while still providing fair compensation for the use of public land.” In addition to the tiered fee system, H.R.4888 institutes a transfer fee when cabins or sold or ownership is transferred to ensure that taxpayers are adequately reimbursed for the value of the land at that time. This new system will create the stability and predictability for cabin users that has been lacking under CUFFA. “The Recreation Residence Program was created to encourage private stewardship on public lands, and many of these cabins have been handed down for generations by families that have strong ties to the land and the surrounding communities,” said Simpson. “I am hopeful that the Cabin Fee Act of 2010 will be the solution that allows Idahoans to continue to enjoy our public lands for many years to come.”
03.18.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson advocated for a comprehensive national energy policy today during a hearing with Interior Secretary Ken Salazar. Salazar testified on the President’s FY2011 Department of Interior budget request before the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Simpson is Ranking Member. Simpson is a strong supporter of an “all-of-the above” energy policy that will make our country energy independent. “I agree with you, Secretary Salazar, that we should ‘take the moon shot’ at achieving America’s energy independence and that it can be done through a combination of renewable energy, nuclear energy, clean coal, and both onshore and offshore oil and gas,” said Simpson. “But up until now, the Obama Administration has seemed determined to drive up the price of energy—including the price of gas at the pump.” Simpson expressed concern about the Administration’s promotion of controversial cap and trade legislation, new rules on greenhouse gases, and new fees on domestic oil and gas production, all efforts that will drive up the costs that will be passed on to consumers. During the hearing, Simpson pointed out that the 25 year old moratorium on offshore drilling expired in 2008 and asked whether projects in states like Virginia, where offshore drilling is widely supported, are moving forward. Secretary Salazar replied that a decision on these projects should be announced soon. “This budget definitely picks winners and losers when it comes to energy: renewable are the big winners, while oil and gas are the big losers” said Simpson. “With gas prices edging ever closer to $4 per gallon, we’re reminded of the need for a balanced energy portfolio. To achieve energy independence, we ought to be vigorously pursuing a wide range of proven energy sources rather than pitting one energy sector against another.” The hearing also covered important Idaho issues like grazing, the Endangered Species Act, and the Administration’s proposed designation of national monument areas. To watch Congressman Simpson question Secretary Salazar visit his YouTube page.
03.17.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson discussed the impact on Idaho of the recent sage-grouse decision by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service with Interior Assistant Secretary Tom Strickland. Strickland testified today before the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Simpson is Ranking Republican Member, regarding the President’s FY 2011 budget request. Earlier this month, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service determined that the greater sage-grouse is “warranted but precluded” from the protections afforded by the Endangered Species Act (ESA). A “warranted but precluded” decision allows the Service to focus its resources on species in greater need of listing while continuing to partner with states and local governments to address the challenges facing the sage-grouse. “Assistant Secretary, I appreciate your efforts to keep me apprised of the Department’s decisions regarding sage-grouse. As I’m sure you can imagine, my constituents, many of whom have seen the ESA used as a weapon to run them out of business, are concerned that this species could be listed under the Act,” said Simpson. “Over the past fourteen years, the State of Idaho has led the way in developing a comprehensive plan for species and habitat preservation, working with land users to find collaborative solutions to address this problem. I’m encouraged that this decision will allow the Service to continue working closely with states, private landowners, and other partners to prevent ever having to list the species.” Assistant Secretary Strickland expressed his support for the Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances recently completed by the State of Idaho, which was the first such agreement for the species in the nation. He said he is cautiously hopeful that with these types of cooperative agreements in place, there will not be a need to list the species. “We know that the challenges facing the sage-grouse are complex,” said Simpson. “As Assistant Strickland reiterated, if we handle this the right way, conservation can work hand in hand with a wide range of activities occurring right now on public lands in the West. I have been pleased with the way land users in Idaho have voluntarily cooperated with the state and federal government on species conservation efforts. These types of agreements are the best hope for real species recovery, and I am hopeful that the Department and the Service will stand by their decision if it is challenged in court.”
03.17.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is once again trying to force a vote that would give the American people an up-or-down vote on the Senate health care bill. Simpson is joining House Republicans in sponsoring a resolution that essentially requires at least one hour of equally divided debate on Senate amendments to H.R. 3590 and that the yeas and nays are recorded. On Monday night, Congressman Simpson attempted a similar approach in the House Budget Committee by offering a Motion to Instruct to the health care bill. His motion would have required the Congressional Budget Office to provide the total cost of the bill based off of current data, a 72-hour waiting period for the bill to be posted online, and instructions requiring a separate vote for each health care measure. This Motion was defeated in Committee by a 21-16 vote. “We intend to use every tool the Constitution provides us to stop the ‘Slaughter Solution’ that Speaker Pelosi is trying to achieve,” said Simpson. “The American people have a right to know how their representatives are voting on this health care legislation, they have a right to know what is in the bill, and they have a right to be represented. This scheme is unthinkable and discredits the Institution as we know it.” The text of the Resolution follows: H. RES. 1188 ________________________________________ RESOLUTION Ensuring an up-or-down vote on certain health care legislation. Resolved, That the Committee on Rules may not report a rule or order that provides for disposition of the Senate amendments to H.R. 3590, an Act entitled The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, unless such rule or order provides for— (1) at least one hour of debate, equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader, or their designees; and (2) a requirement that the Speaker put the question on disposition of the Senate amendments and that the yeas and nays be considered as ordered thereon.
03.16.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today challenged Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and White House Budget Director Peter Orszag in a House Appropriations Committee hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget proposal. Congressman Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.J.Res. 1, which would amend the Constitution to require Congress to balance the budget annually. After listening to the Administration list the numerous kinds of debts they have inherited from the previous Administration in order to place blame on the other party for the current federal deficit, Congressman Simpson addressed Secretary Geithner. “I have heard a lot about deficits you inherited: the financial deficit, the opportunity deficit, the job deficit, the educational deficit, the investment deficit, and a new one, the foreign relations deficits. The only one I haven’t heard today is the reality deficit that seems to be created from all of these. When I was home in Idaho, everywhere I went, constituents had the same message for me--they wish that we on the federal level were making the same tough budgetary decisions that every state legislature is making right now.” After the hearing, Simpson added, “This budget is not fiscally responsible over the long term, and the American people are saying that we need to quit spending money. It’s that simple. As I look over this budget, it strikes me that the administration is unwilling to make the tough decisions necessary in order to cut spending and reduce the national debt.” The FY 2011 budget is the largest in American history. It spends $3.8 trillion and produces a deficit of $1.6 trillion, borrowing 42 cents for each dollar spent. It will create a massive two trillion dollar tax increase over the next decade--an increase which still does not come close to covering the spending within the bill. “The President’s proposal, though it is only a budget blueprint, illustrates why I believe we need a federal balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. If Congress and the President, like every American family, are forced to pay for every dollar spent in their budget, a new sense of fiscal responsibility would emerge. These record deficits would stop building on each other, and Congress could actually start reducing our debt, which has ballooned to nearly unsustainable levels.” The House Appropriations Committee is currently in the process of reviewing the FY2011 federal budget. To watch Congressman Simpson question Secretary Geithner visit his YouTube page at http://www.youtube.com/CongMikeSimpson.
03.16.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned the Department of Energy today on its cleanup efforts at our nation’s major nuclear sites as part of its FY2011 budget request. Assistant Secretary of Environmental Management Ines Triay testified before the Subcommittee. During the hearing, Simpson asked Triay for the status of the Advanced Mixed Waste Treatment Project at the Idaho National Laboratory. “This contract has been extended nine times already. The workers and my constituents are understandably nervous about the uncertainty that this creates for them, and they are anxious to have a decision made.” Simpson said. “Can you tell me when you expect to have a decision on this?” Assistant Secretary Triay told Simpson that she expected a decision to be made by the end of the month. He also questioned her on the impact that the Administration’s decision to cancel the Yucca Mountain project could have on cleanup on the Idaho Governor’s Agreement and cleanup at Idaho. “I am concerned by the impact that ending the Yucca Mountain program could have on cleanup at Idaho and sites throughout the complex,” Simpson said. He asked her to explain what this would mean for cleanup agreements, including the Idaho Governor’s Agreement, and asked DOE to consult with the major stakeholders on any decisions impacting cleanup in the future. While Triay recognized that a geologic repository is still necessary, she said that DOE was committed to meeting the milestones laid out in the Governor’s Agreement. Both Simpson and Triay recognized the good work that is occurring in Idaho. “I am pleased that DOE recognizes all of the positive things occurring at the INL,” Simpson said after the hearing. “These accomplishments would not be possible without continued stable budgets, and I will work with my colleagues to ensure that the DOE receives adequate funding to meets its obligation to clean up these sites.” Simpson is a Member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Energy and Water Subcommittee which oversees funding for the Department of Energy.
03.15.2010	Idaho’s Congressional Delegation and Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter are calling on Interior Secretary Ken Salazar to stand firm on his department’s justified “warranted but precluded” ruling regarding protections for sage grouse. In a letter to Salazar sent today, Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch, Congressman Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick, and Governor Otter pointed to Idaho’s wide-ranging, collaborative on-the-ground efforts that have improved habitat for the sage grouse and provide rationale for the agency’s determinations about listing. “In 1996, the State of Idaho became one of the first states in the country to develop a comprehensive plan for conserving the species and its habitat,” wrote the Governor and Delegation members. “It amended the plan in 2006, and that has led to the prioritization and implementation of numerous conservation actions for the benefit of the species.” Noting that Interior’s ruling is now facing a court challenge, the Delegation and Governor said that Secretary Salazar is to be commended for his determination—and he should stand by his decision concerning sage grouse. “We need to ensure that our collective attention to this important issue does not wane or is overshadowed by inaction in the coming months,” the Idahoans wrote. A full copy of the letter from the Idaho Delegation and Governor Otter to Secretary Salazar is attached.
03.15.2010	“Right now, Speaker Pelosi and her Democrats are busy trying to ram health reform legislation through the House of Representatives against the will of the American people. This bill will raise your taxes, create a massive new entitlement program and do little to address the problems in our current health system. The frightening reality for the American taxpayer and anyone who will need health care in the future is that the Democrats are hiding the true costs of these bills and doing so in ways that will be disastrous to our nation’s long-term fiscal health. “Claims that the bill reduces deficits couldn’t be further from the truth. This bill uses budgetary gimmickry to make the bill appear deficit neutral. For example, the bill uses huge cuts in Medicare payments to offset the cost of this new entitlement program. Everyone, including the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), recognizes that these cuts rarely go into effect. For example, Congress has chosen to stop cuts to Medicare reimbursements for physicians for the past seven years straight. The reason for this is irrefutable – if Congress did allow proposed cuts to providers such as hospitals, doctors, nursing homes and hospice care to occur, then Medicare providers would stop seeing Medicare patients, putting access to care in grave danger. “I strongly believe that there are a number of measures that all of us, regardless of party affiliation, support that will bring down costs and improve access to care for all Americans. These are not new ideas however – they are ideas that are critical to implementing real, affordable, and effective health reform. “First, we must pass effective medical malpractice reform. By passing meaningful liability reform, the legal system will continue to protect patients against medical negligence, but it would limit junk lawsuits by placing caps on noneconomic damages and limiting attorney fees and save billions of dollars in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. “We should immediately end the current practice of banning the purchase of insurance across state lines. Under the current system, the insurance market operates like 50 individual fiefdoms with each state in charge of insurance regulation and individuals limited to buying health insurance from local insurance providers. Allowing purchasing of insurance across state lines would increase competition in the insurance market as individuals would have more affordable health insurance options and end the monopolies that exist in many states. “Bipartisan health reform should include provisions to allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy healthcare coverage, giving them the same leverage and buying power that large corporations and even labor unions already enjoy. Further, everyone recognizes that we need to do more as a country to focus on prevention and early intervention. And for those people with pre-existing conditions, we should pass a measure to prohibit insurers from denying coverage. “These are just a few examples of reforms that Democrats, Republicans and Independents could support that would bring down healthcare costs for taxpayers and consumers and improve access to care. These are not new ideas—many of them already have support from both sides of the aisle. I am disappointed that President Obama and Speaker Pelosi have chosen to ignore this message. Americans deserve REAL reform—not a partisan, gimmicky bill that will cost trillions of dollars and do little to improve care. We should be working together to pass health reform that will make healthcare more affordable and improve access to quality care for all Americans.”
03.15.2010	Tonight Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson opposed the Democrats' health care reconciliation bill. The House Budget Committee conducted a markup of the bill this evening. This reconciliation legislation has been described as a "Trojan horse" because every word in the bill will be erased after passage and replaced with the yet-unseen health care bill written behind closed doors by President Obama and Speaker Pelosi. The bill passed out of the Budget Committee, of which Simpson is a member, with only two Democrats joining the Republicans in opposition. “Unfortunately,” Congressman Simpson said, “the Budget Committee today started the health care reconciliation process with a partisan and largely ceremonial markup vote. This procedural maneuver will allow Democrats, now without enough votes to pass the bill in regular order, to pass it with only 50 votes in the Senate, rather than the 60 normally required for controversial pieces of legislation.” Simpson offered a Motion to Instruct to require the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) to provide the total cost of the bill based off of this year's data, rather than the budget baseline from March 2009 as had been previously done. This would reveal the real cost of the bill to the American people. His motion also asked for a 72-hour waiting period for the bill to be posted online so it could be read by Americans and Members of Congress before a final vote. Additionally, the motion included instructions requiring a separate vote for each health care measure, thus rejecting the Democrats plan to pass the bill by using an obscure rule.” “My motion would have simply shined more light on the costs and the details of the bill, something I had hoped both Democrats and Republicans would support.” Despite unanimous Republican support, the motion failed because it only garnered support from one Democrat on the Committee. “I am disappointed that my motion failed. As it stands, the American people will not know the real cost of the bill, or even what is in it, until after it passes. This is simply not the way to pass major legislation, let alone a health care entitlement that constitutes a government takeover of 17 percent of the economy. However, it now appears Congressional Democrats are planning to jam through this bill without the inclusion of a single minority opinion, and without the support of most Americans.”
03.11.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson questioned the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) about its FY2011 budget request during a hearing in the House Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee this week. BLM Director Bob Abbey testified to the subcommittee, of which Simpson is Ranking Republican Member. During the hearing, Simpson asked Director Abbey what the BLM is doing to address the significant backlog in grazing permits. Last week the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service determined that sage-grouse is “warranted but precluded” from listing under the Endangered Species Act. Simpson expressed his concern that this decision would put an additional burden on the BLM, which is responsible for managing most of the current sage-grouse habitat, without providing additional resources for the agency to address its current backlog. “While the Fish and Wildlife Service has stated that properly-managed grazing is not a principle threat to sage-grouse, I am concerned that this decision may only add to the problems the BLM is having in getting permits issued,” said Simpson. “I recognize that there are numerous things that have contributed to this backlog over the years, not the least of which is the fact that it is almost a given that the BLM will be sued by someone over every land management decision it makes. But at the end of the day, it is largely a problem of resources. I want to work with you to ensure that the BLM has the resources it needs to reduce the backlog of grazing permits over the next five years.” Director Abbey agreed to work with Congressman Simpson and the members of the subcommittee to address this problem. The hearing also focused on recently-leaked Department of Interior internal planning document on new monument designations. “The problem with the Antiquities Act,” Simpson said,” is that national monuments can be designated by executive order without any input from residents and local leaders. When we look at national monument designations, let’s look forward and do them legislatively, the way they were intended to be done, so that the Antiquities Act is used as a tool for collaboration instead of a hammer.” In addition to issues that directly impact land use in Idaho, the hearing also focused on energy and mineral development on public lands and the wild horse and burro program.
03.10.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today reintroduced H.R. 4798, the Small Community Options for Regulatory Equity Act, which provides relief to small Idaho communities from onerous and unnecessary federal regulations. The measure is similar to legislation Simpson and then-Congressman C.L. “Butch” Otter first introduced in the 108th Congress. Simpson is hopeful Congress will be inclined to reconsider the bill because of the severe impact federal regulations have had on small communities since it was last introduced. “We’re not talking here about trying to reduce arsenic from 100 parts per billion to ten, we’re talking about communities having to spend hundreds of millions of dollars to reduce it by two parts per billion. It should be up to rural communities to determine if twelve parts per billion is acceptable for their drinking water, or if they should tax people out of their homes in order to try to obtain EPA’s arsenic standard of ten parts per billion,” said Simpson. “Nobody cares more about the safety of a community’s drinking water, or is more eager to do the right thing to protect it, than the people who live, work and raise families there.” The Small Community Options for Regulatory Equity Act enables communities with populations under 10,000 to opt out of the EPA’s new Safe Drinking Water Act standards for arsenic – which occurs naturally in many water systems in the West, at levels above what the agency considers safe – if they determine the cost to citizens exceeds the potential benefit. In January 2006, EPA required all drinking water systems to reduce arsenic levels from the previous standard of 50 parts per billion to no more than 10 parts per billion. In many small communities where arsenic levels range between nine and twelve parts per billion, complying with EPA’s regulations threatens to impose an impossible financial burden on residents who face no discernible health threat. H.R. 4798 restores the kind of flexibility that Congress wrote into the Safe Drinking Water Act, but which the EPA has chosen to ignore. The agency’s unwillingness to consider local conditions and single-minded commitment to a one-size-fits-all solution is contrary to Idaho’s interest in educating and assisting citizens rather than proscribing actions and punishing non-compliance. “Layer upon layer of federal regulations and mandates are slowing our economic recovery and putting our small, rural communities in the position of either raising local taxes or begging for help – from the federal government!” Governor Otter said. “That’s why more than half of the federal stimulus money that Idaho received is being used for meeting federal mandates. And it’s why Congressman Simpson’s bill is so badly needed. It shouldn’t be the government’s business to rob citizens or communities of their self-determination.” “All across rural America, small communities are struggling with how to pay for federal regulations that simply don’t make any sense,” said Congressman Simpson, Ranking Member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the EPA. “In the case of arsenic, dozens of Idaho water systems are facing millions in compliance costs and severe penalties unless they reduce naturally occurring arsenic levels to an arbitrary, unnecessary number. The federal government’s command-and-control regulatory structure is unresponsive to the concerns of rural communities and that is why this legislation is so desperately needed.”
03.01.2010	“As the recession continues and unemployment stubbornly holds near the double digits, we must not forget about the vital contribution school teachers make to our nation. There are two pieces of legislation that I hope will come before the House of Representatives this session that will make targeted and effective changes to current law in support of teachers. I am urging my colleagues to take-up and pass them without delay. “The first is H.R. 3943, the Post 9/11 Troops to Teachers (TTT) Enhancement Act offered by Representatives Joe Courtney, Tom Petri and Doris Matsui. The bill will expand the TTT program, which has successfully sent about 12,000 military veterans into classrooms over the last 15 years. TTT offers financial assistance for military personnel to obtain their teaching certification and teach for at least three years, with additional funding going to those who agree to teach in schools with the most need. Apart from offering an excellent career option to departing military members, TTT directly targets major shortcomings identified by leaders in the education community: a shortage of male teachers, a shortage of minority teachers, and a shortage of math, science and special education teachers. Eighty percent of the program participants are male, thirty five percent are minorities and many veterans are well suited to teach science and math because they worked highly technical jobs in the military. Many students have also benefited from the military philosophy of hard work and sacrifice that former soldiers bring to the job. “H.R. 3943 reduces the years of service requirement from six years to four and expands the number of school districts eligible to accept TTT teachers. The changes will encourage a larger pool of returning Iraq and Afghanistan veterans, many who are struggling to find work, to become teachers. Idaho will also see a major increase in eligible schools as a result of the new rules in the bill. “Another important issue is the teacher tax credit, which I was encouraged to see extended through 2010. The law gives every teacher a $250 credit to offset the costs of any purchase of classroom materials. We all can probably agree that teachers should never have to pay out of pocket for basic supplies like pencils and paper in their own classrooms. That said, $250 is not enough. Most teachers spend double that, and some spend much more. That is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 3758, the Teacher Tax Relief Act of 2009, introduced by Representative Dave Reichert. This bill increases the maximum deduction from $250 to $500, expands it to include professional development expenses, and makes it permanent. I will continue to push my colleagues to support this important legislation. “As the second session of the 111th Congress continues, I plan to promote these plans, and others that support educators. I am interested in hearing from those in the education community, especially teachers, about other ideas they have. Please visit my website, www.simpson.house.gov to email me with your thoughts.”
02.26.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson offered his reaction to President Obama’s latest health care proposal and the bi-partisan health care summit. “Unfortunately, my fears about this summit were realized: rather than a substantive discussion about health care reform, the President’s summit was just for show,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “It seems the Democrats were more interested in selling the American people the bills they have supported in the House and Senate rather than working together to accomplish health care reform that we can all agree on.” While Democrats have been trying to dub Republicans as the party of “no” when it comes to working on health care reform, the fact is the GOP has several reforms they have been touting for months. To learn more about these reforms, visit www.gop.gov/solutions/healthcare. “There is no doubt we need health care reform,” said Simpson. “It comes down to different approaches and philosophies. I support proposals that would allow individuals to purchase health care insurance across state lines, enact meaningful medical malpractice reform, allow for prescription drug re-importation, and extend coverage to patients with pre-existing conditions. These are common sense reforms that will lower overall costs and increase access without enacting a government takeover of health care.”
02.25.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today shared an Idaho perspective when Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell testified at the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee regarding the FY2011 Forest Service Budget request. Simpson is Ranking Member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Forest Service. During the hearing Simpson raised a number of concerns he has heard from his constituents, including opposition to a controversial proposal to raise fees on senior citizens and physically disabled citizens seeking recreational access to U.S. Forest Service lands. “It’s no secret that the recession has had a considerable impact on these groups because of high health care costs and depleted retirement savings,” said Simpson. Simpson also provided an important local point of view when committee members questioned the Chief regarding reduced funding for roads on Forest Service lands. “When you decide to decommission roads, Chief Tidwell, there really needs to be a good reason for making that decision and then it really needs to be explained to the public and they need an opportunity to be part of the process,” Simpson said. “I often hear from Idahoans who are concerned that their access to public lands is suddenly limited without explanation.” Simpson advocated for continued access to recreation on public lands, asking Chief Tidwell about how the Forest Service manages recreation on Recommended Wilderness Areas and securing a commitment from the Chief to look at ways to improve the permit process for outfitters and guides. This was the second hearing on the President’s FY11 budget request held by the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee.
02.25.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who is Ranking Member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, grilled EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson on the unfunded mandate placed on cities under the Clean Water Act. Last week Congressman Simpson met with mayors and community leaders throughout Idaho, many of whom expressed their frustration with the EPA’s unreasonable clean water standards that they are struggling to meet. Simpson forcefully communicated these concerns to Administrator Jackson during Interior Appropriations Subcommittee hearing on the EPA budget for FY11. “One thing I heard time and time again when I was home was the dramatic impact EPA is having on Idaho communities,” said Simpson. “Mayors throughout our state are at their wit’s end trying to meet EPA’s standards under the Clean Water Act and are forced to make difficult and even impossible budget decisions to do so. Some cities are so frustrated that they are prepared to hand EPA the keys to the city. No agency should have this kind of control over local governments.” Simpson also had the opportunity to meet with EPA Region X Administrator Dennis McLerran to share with him the concerns he has heard from local leaders in Idaho. During the meeting they discussed struggles that Boise and other Treasure Valley communities face in meeting federal phosphorus requirements. In spite of the cities’ willingness to find innovative solutions to address this issue, the EPA continues to insist on outrageously expensive measures to reduce phosphorus discharges into the Boise River. “Regarding the phosphorus issue specifically, do you believe results are the primary goal of the EPA in its enforcement measures,” asked Simpson, “or are you equally interested in forcing communities to meet standards in the EPA’s preferred method instead of using innovative or unique methods for meeting goals?” “I understand that the EPA has laws and regulations to enforce, but it seems to me that this is getting to a point of ridiculousness,” Simpson vented to Administrator Jackson during the hearing. “Here we have small, rural communities where the cost of complying with EPA’s standards is forcing citizens to pay 20% of their income for water and sewer, and the EPA is insisting that they spend tens of millions of dollars to reduce arsenic levels from eleven parts per billion to ten. Administrator, have we ever heard of a cost-benefit analysis? Idaho communities have simply run out of options.” Simpson is working on legislation that would allow small communities opt out of federal arsenic standards. To watch Congressman Simpson’s comments during the hearing, click here.
02.22.2010	Congressman Simpson expressed concern that the Obama Administration remains reluctant to slow down implementation of greenhouse gas regulations in light of concerns about the legitimacy of climate change science. On Wednesday, Simpson will have the opportunity to question EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson when she testifies before the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, of which Simpson is the Ranking Republican Member. “EPA’s public response to the so-called ‘Climate-gate’ issue is unsatisfactory at best,” said Simpson. “Idahoans are frustrated that we are basing major, far-reaching policy changes and significant funding increases on scientific data that has been called into question, but their concerns are being summarily dismissed by the EPA, which simply claims that ‘the science is sound.’” In December, the EPA announced an endangerment finding regarding greenhouse gases, effectively giving the EPA authority to regulate all greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. Last week, 16 separate court petitions were filed by three states, 13 House lawmakers, and various advocacy groups and think tanks challenging EPA’s finding. Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 4572, legislation that would amend the Clean Air Act to clarify that it does not allow for regulation of greenhouse gases on the basis of global climate change. “President Obama has committed to basing decisions on science, not politics, and to have a ‘more transparent and open government,’” said Simpson. “Now instead of stepping back and asking, ‘Okay, what do the facts really say and how should we respond accordingly?’ the Administration is ignoring legitimate concerns and is continuing to push through new regulations that are extremely damaging to our economy.”
02.16.2010	“With President Obama calling for a bipartisan summit on healthcare reform, I am anxious for Republicans to share some of the ideas we have to improve healthcare delivery in our nation. Now more than ever, Republicans and Democrats must work together to address the very real problems that this country faces, including in the health arena. “I strongly believe that there are a number of measures that all of us, regardless of party affiliation, support that will bring down costs and improve access to care for all Americans. These are not new ideas—they are, however, ideas that are critical to implementing real, affordable and effective health reform. “First, we must pass effective medical malpractice reform. According to the American Medical Association (AMA), failure to implement meaningful liability reform increases health costs by between $84 and $151 BILLION each year. While the overwhelming majority of liability claims against doctors are eventually dropped or found meritless, the cost of the litigation and resulting defensive medicine is still absorbed by you, the consumer/taxpayer. “By passing meaningful liability reform, the legal system will continue to protect patients against medical negligence, but it would limit junk lawsuits by placing caps on noneconomic damages and limiting attorney fees and save billions of dollars in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. I have repeatedly supported these reforms, which are a critical piece of any effective bipartisan health bill. “Beyond liability reform, we should immediately end the current practice of banning the purchase of insurance across state lines. Under the current system, the insurance market operates like 50 individual fiefdoms with each state in charge of insurance regulation and individuals limited to buying health insurance from local insurance providers. “In today’s modern world, people can buy all kinds of products from businesses based in other states--they should be permitted to purchase insurance that best fits their needs, too, instead of being limited only to those companies based in just one state. Allowing purchasing of insurance across state lines would increase competition in the insurance market as individuals would have more affordable health insurance options and end the monopolies that exist in many states. “Bipartisan health reform should also include provisions to allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy health care coverage, giving them the same leverage and buying power that large corporations and even labor unions already enjoy. I have repeatedly supported legislation to do this, which would give America’s small businesses the same advantages and make health care coverage for their employees more affordable. “Further, everyone recognizes that we need to do more as a country to focus on prevention and early intervention. And for those people with pre-existing conditions, we should pass a measure to prohibit insurers from denying coverage. “These are just a few examples of reforms that all Americans, Democrat, Republican and Independent, could support that would bring down healthcare costs for taxpayers and consumers and improve access to care. These are not new ideas—many of them already have support on both sides of the aisle. “I am hopeful that President Obama will review these and other reform proposals based on their merits instead of their party label or the party affiliation of those that support or oppose them. I urge him to consider these commonsense reforms and I am hopeful agreement can be reached on a series of health reform proposals that the American people need, deserve and can afford.”
02.04.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined a bipartisan group of Representatives in cosponsoring legislation to prevent the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the authority of the Clean Air Act. H.R. 4572 was introduced by Congressman Ike Skelton (D-MO), Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), and House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN). In December EPA released a finding that greenhouse gas is an endangerment to human health under the Clean Air Act, which gives EPA broad authority to regulate emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in spite of the fact that Congress has yet to pass climate change legislation. “The EPA’s recent decision was a shot across Congress’s bow, telling us that if we don’t act quickly to pass sweeping, controversial climate change legislation, the EPA is going to do it for us,” Simpson said. “Unelected bureaucrats at EPA should not be allowed to circumvent the legislative process or override the will of the American people. It’s clear that we need to take action through H.R. 4572 to prevent them from doing so.” H.R. 4572 would amend the Clean Air Act to clarify that it does not allow for regulation of greenhouse gases on the basis of global climate change. It would also prevent EPA from following through with additional regulations proposed last year to use calculations of indirect land use changes associated with the production of biofuels in determining renewable fuels policy. Such regulations would disqualify ethanol and other biofuels from the renewable fuels standard, severely limiting our ability to address the energy crisis facing this nation. “Over the past year, I’ve heard from farmers, ranchers, and employers all over the state who are deeply concerned about current efforts to push through sweeping environmental policy reforms without regard for the impact they are having on the economy and job creation,” said Simpson. “We must work to develop real solutions to our nation’s energy and environmental challenges, and I believe that H.R. 4572 is a good first step.”
02.02.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Budget Committee, today challenged White House Budget Director Peter Orszag in a House Budget Committee hearing on the President’s Fiscal Year 2011 budget proposal. Congressman Simpson is an original cosponsor of H.J.Res. 1, which would amend the Constitution to require Congress to balance the budget annually. Following a contentious back-and-forth dispute between the Democrats and Republicans on the Committee regarding which party is to blame for the current debt, Congressman Simpson addressed Dr. Orszag. “If anybody wants to understand what the problem is in Washington, D.C., all they need to do is listen to the debate that’s gone on here, pointing fingers and trying to decide who’s to blame. The reality is the American people don’t care who’s to blame, they just want the problem solved.” Simpson continued, “This budget is not fiscally responsible over the long term, and what the American people are saying is we need to quit spending money, it’s that simple.” After the hearing, Simpson added, “The people of Idaho have made their opinion loud and clear: they want their government to address the debt, and they want us to do so immediately. As I look over this budget, it strikes me the administration has not received the message. I don’t see enough serious efforts to cut spending and reduce the debt in this budget.” The FY 2011 budget is the largest in American history. It spends $3.8 trillion and produces a deficit of $1.6 trillion, borrowing 42 cents for each dollar spent. It will create a massive two trillion dollar tax increase over the next decade, an increase which still does not come close to covering the spending within the bill. “The President’s proposal, though it is only a budget blueprint, illustrates why I believe we need a federal balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. If Congress and the President, like any family, are forced to pay for every dollar spent in their budget, a new sense of fiscal responsibility would emerge. These record deficits would stop building on each other, and Congress could actually start reducing our debt, which has ballooned to nearly unsustainable levels.” The House Budget Committee will soon debate and mark-up the FY2011 federal budget. To watch Congressman Simpson question Dr. Orszag, visit his YouTube page
01.27.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union speech tonight. “Getting our out-of-control budget deficit under control must be our top priority, and it will require all Americans to participate. Rather than criticizes the President’s proposal to freeze discretionary spending, I consider it an initial offer to Congress in what I hope will be a bipartisan dialogue that leads to real action. I fully expect the counter offer made by House Republicans to bring more robust ideas to the table as well, and I hope these include freezing discretionary spending across the board at fiscal year 2009 levels and doing away with the irresponsible spending increases in the current year’s budget. We should commit to staying on budget, just like any American family has to do, by doing away with off-budget, so-called ‘emergency’ measures and taking an up-or-down vote in the next two months on a constitutional amendment that requires Congress to balance the budget each year. “While this is by no means a comprehensive list of budget reforms that ought to be considered, it is a good start—prudent, achievable things Congress can do to bring our budget deficit under control sooner rather than later. What is more, they are supported by the majority of Americans and can attract the votes of Senators and Representatives on both sides of the aisle. I hope that my colleagues will see the election in Massachusetts not as a mandate to dig in their heels, but as one to engage each other in a hopeful, productive, and bipartisan effort to resolve what may ultimately be the most critical issue of our time—the exploding national debt and unsustainable growth of federal spending. Now is the time for Members of Congress to stop preaching and start listening to the American people.”
01.22.2010	“While the Massachusetts Senate race is a clear rejection of the policies put forward by President Obama and Congressional Democrats, Republicans must not lose sight of the fact that their own policies were rejected with equal fervor just three short years ago. The voters sent a clear message in Massachusetts, but I am worried politicians on both sides of the aisle will misinterpret that message and fail to give the American people the leadership they want and deserve. “While the media has focused on the Democrats’ healthcare bill as the biggest issue in the Massachusetts election, I think the real message voters sent is a rejection of the status quo. To be clear, the American people disapprove of the healthcare bill, but they also disapprove of a Congress that is out of touch with Main Street and focused too much on who wins and who loses. “What voters really want is for Republicans and Democrats to set aside their party labels and focus on what is best for the country. Voters want their Congressman to focus on ways in which the federal budget can be reduced, not increased. Voters want their Congressman to make their interaction with government simpler, not more complex. Voters want their Congressman to consider each proposal on its merits, instead of selling his or her votes to make political points and giving out special deals for those who have the most leverage. Put simply, voters want a government that works for them, not against them. “No single party has a monopoly on failed policies or over-the-top rhetoric. Republicans and Democrats alike have been poor stewards of taxpayer money and too focused on winning majorities in Congress instead of listening to the majority of Americans. To get back on track and restore the trust of the American people, I believe Congress needs to undertake a few simple measures that are long overdue. They include: New ethics rules in the House and Senate that put an end to special deals, prohibiting members from selling their votes for special favors like those secured for Nebraska in the Senate Health Care bill; A return to open debate in the House of Representatives where amendments to bills like healthcare reform can be offered by members on both sides of the aisle; New rules in the House and Senate that require the final text of legislation to be posted online one week before a vote and ensure bills go through the committee process before being brought to the floor; Passage of true pay-as-you-go provisions that limit federal spending and cannot be circumvented by simply lumping big spending initiatives into “emergency” measures; Passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution; An honest dialogue with the American people about the shared sacrifice required to get our budget, including programs like Social Security and Medicare, under control; The creation of toll-free phone lines that allow constituents to contact congressional offices for free. “While there are many other reforms I believe should be undertaken, those listed above are ones on which members on both sides of the aisle could agree and that could be implemented quickly. “These are reforms that make Congress more open and accessible, provide reassurance to the American people that their Members of Congress are not for sale, and start our nation down a path toward fiscal discipline. “Perhaps most importantly, these reforms are not my idea--they are reforms brought to me by the people of Idaho. “I believe these reforms speak to the message I heard coming from voters in Massachusetts, Virginia, and New Jersey over the last several months, and they are reforms I intend to bring to my colleagues in Washington, DC.”
01.20.2010	Idaho Congressman Simpson joined an overwhelming majority of his colleagues in supporting legislation to accelerate the tax benefits for charitable cash contributions for the relief of the victims of the earthquake in Haiti. H.R. 4462 was passed by the House of Representatives today without objection. “Like all Idahoans, my deepest sympathies go out to the victims of this catastrophe,” said Simpson. “Tragedy tends to bring out the best in Americans, and it is clear that this situation is no different, as Haiti has been flooded with vital assistance from individual citizens in the past week. I am hopeful that this legislation will provide an incentive for Americans to continue to give to rescue and recovery efforts in Haiti.” The earthquake on January 12, 2010, has devastated the already-impoverished country, killing at least 65,000 people and directly affecting millions. H.R. 4462 would allow individuals who make qualifying charitable donations between January 11, 2010, and March 1, 2010, to take their tax deduction for the 2009 tax year instead of waiting until the end of 2010. Similar legislation was passed in the wake of the 2004 Indian Ocean Tsunami. If you would like to learn more about how to help or make a donation, please visit http://www.usaid.gov/helphaiti/.
01.13.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, in a letter to the White House, is urging the President to personally intervene in an effort to stop an Office of Management and Budget plan to gut the Department of Energy’s Environmental Management Program in its Fiscal Year 2011 budget – with the States of Tennessee and Idaho taking the biggest hit. The Environmental Management Program funds environmental remediation efforts at nuclear energy sites like the Idaho National Laboratory. Simpson was joined on the letter by Tennessee Congressman Zach Wamp. Both are members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development which funds all of the Department of Energy’s many functions. In their letter to President Obama, Simpson and Wamp expressed their concern with the actions of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in seeking up to fifty percent reductions for cleanup activities in Idaho and Tennessee. “We write today to respectfully request your assistance in preventing an attempt by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to dramatically curtail funding for the federal government’s nuclear environmental remediation efforts in our state,” the two Congressmen wrote. “Such cuts would have a devastating impact on the ability of the DOE to meet its legal and contractual obligations to our states. Further, such reductions to cleanup funding would represent a fundamental betrayal of the trust the people of Tennessee and Idaho have placed in the DOE.” Simpson and Wamp outlined the successes of cleanup efforts across the country and said that progress would be halted by these cuts. “We are proud to report that the DOE is making great strides in meeting its cleanup obligations in Tennessee and Idaho where amazing work is being accomplished on limited budgets. These accomplishments would not be possible but for the stable budgets we and many of our colleagues have been working toward for many years,” wrote Simpson and Wamp. “The reductions planned in your budget would undo decades of hard work to ensure adequate funding for the EM program and put an immediate halt to the tremendous progress being made on the ground all across the country – but most prominently in Tennessee and Idaho.” “As you know, the work to date is just a portion of the long-term work that will be required to meet the DOE’s environmental cleanup obligations. Much more work is yet to be done. The longer you delay that work, the more money taxpayers will ultimately spend meeting the unquestionable obligation of the federal government to cleanup these sites,” the two Congressmen concluded. A complete copy of Simpson’s letter is attached.
01.06.2010	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauds House Republican Leader John Boehner in endorsing a request from the head of C-SPAN that the public have full access to health care negotiations. Currently, Democratic leaders are planning to shut out the American people by writing a final bill behind closed doors. “As elected officials, we are here to represent the best interests of the American public. It is only right that we are ALL informed about negotiations to a bill that will fundamentally change our healthcare system,” said Simpson. “If this bill is really what the American people want, as Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid would like us to believe, then why keep it a secret?” Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.Res. 544. This bipartisan resolution amends House rules in order to guarantee that all Members of Congress and the American public can easily access, via the Internet, complete legislation and conference reports at least 72 hours before they are considered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays unless the House is in session on such a day. “This is not a new concept. Rather, it is one that we’ve been advocating for years,” said Simpson. “Americans deserve to know what these new laws actually contain and how they will impact their lives. They are demanding more transparency, and it is our responsibility to deliver.”
12.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, in his role as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment, has written to President Obama expressing serious reservations about the way in which the White House and its agencies are using taxpayer funds to combat global climate change. Simpson was joined on the letter by Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA) who is the Ranking Republican on the full House Appropriations Committee. “As you prepare to attend the U.N. climate change conference in Copenhagen, we caution you against pursuing environmental policies that will undermine job creation in our already fragile economy,” Simpson and Lewis wrote. “We are particularly concerned about efforts to address climate change that circumvent the legislative process, are not grounded unequivocally in sound science, and don’t reflect majority public opinion in the United States. Recent events suggest that this is precisely the course your Administration is pursuing with regard to greenhouse gas policy.” Simpson and Lewis outlined their concern over the impact a number of Administration-backed initiatives will have on job creation and economic recovery while our nation’s businesses and workers are struggling. They specifically noted concern with the Environmental Protection Agency’s recent movement toward regulation of greenhouse gases without Congressional approval and the failure within the Administration to seriously investigate the actions of prominent climate change scientists to suppress or eliminate data and to manipulate the peer-review process. “It is apparent that the EPA’s recent actions, as well as cap-and-trade legislation approved by the narrowest of margins in the House, may have been based upon false pretenses,” wrote Simpson and Lewis. “The very legitimacy of the information upon which these actions were taken has been called into question. It is clear that the outcome of the House vote on the cap-and-trade proposal may well have been different had this information surfaced prior to the bill’s consideration.” The Congressmen concluded by calling on the President to limit taxpayer expenditures on climate change research until a full investigation, by a credible unbiased entity, can be conducted. “Therefore, we urge you in the strongest possible terms to re-direct funds necessary, using a portion of enacted fiscal year 2010 climate change funding, to determine the full extent to which illegitimate scientific evidence and research has been used to support recent legislative and regulatory actions (including the recently passed cap-and-trade legislation in the House and this week’s EPA endangerment finding),” wrote Simpson and Lewis. “In an attempt to set politics aside, we ask that a credible, independent entity conduct this review and report to the Congress and the American public within 90 days.” A full copy of the letter is attached. ###
12.16.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today expressed his vigorous opposition to the Democrats’ latest spending spree. Late last night House Democrats unveiled a new $149 billion “stimulus” package that includes bailouts to states and significant new spending for federal programs. The Democrats also voted today to increase the debt limit by $290 billion. “While Idaho families are struggling to make ends meet and one in ten Americans is out of work, the Democrats have been doing everything they can to kill jobs by imposing greater tax and regulatory burdens on our nation’s job creators,” said Simpson. “Businesses in Idaho have told me that they cannot afford to invest in job creation while Congress is debating costly and expensive healthcare reform, cap and trade, and other sweeping and burdensome regulatory reforms that will make it even more difficult for them to survive. Apparently the Democrats don’t realize the key connection between jobs and those who create them. Rather than looking for real solutions to our nation’s economic crisis, they are simply pouring money into old, failed policies.” The so-called “jobs bill” passed by the House of Representatives today provides approximately $70 billion into programs across government that already received funding under the $789.5 billion stimulus package signed into law by President Obama in February. In many cases, this additional funding is going to agencies in spite of the fact that only a fraction of this original funding has actually been spent to create jobs. “The EPA has only spent 6% of the funding it received under the Democrats’ stimulus package earlier this year, but this bill throws another $2 billion into its programs,” said Simpson, who is Ranking Member on the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the EPA. “The EPA received an enormous increase in funding through the regular appropriations process this year, which means that this one agency has received more than two-and-a-half times its regular budget in this calendar year alone. How can one agency responsibly spend all this money in so short an amount of time?” Simpson also expressed deep concern that the bill takes $75 billion from unspent or repaid Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds to direct toward new governmental spending. When TARP was originally created, Republicans insisted that it contain a number of taxpayer protections, including a requirement that any repaid funds be returned to the taxpayer to pay down the national debt. “Unfortunately, Republicans’ fears about TARP have become reality,” said Simpson. “Now that companies are paying back the TARP payments they received and the taxpayer is making billions of dollars in interest, the Democrats are trying to turn the program from a one-time emergency measure to a permanent slush fund for growing government.” Simpson has opposed nearly $5 trillion in new spending this year and today joined his Republican colleagues in opposing both the stimulus bill and legislation to increase the debt ceiling. Instead, Simpson has supported a number of proposals to reduce taxes on American families and small businesses, create jobs, keep families in their homes, and help them rebuild their savings. ###
12.08.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson expressed vigorous opposition to President Obama’s proposal to raid the emergency fund created in 2008 in response the growing financial crisis. The President and Congressional Democrats are looking to redirect unspent and repaid Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds for a new federal stimulus bill and a bailout of states—something Simpson strongly opposes. Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 4110, the TARP Sunset Act of 2009, which would end the TARP program at the end of month. “Republicans insisted that TARP include a number of taxpayer protections, including a requirement that any repaid funds be returned to the taxpayer to pay down the federal debt,” said Simpson. “Obviously those protections were necessary—now that companies are paying back the TARP payments they received and the taxpayer is making billions of dollars in interest, the Democrats are trying to turn the program from a one-time emergency measure to a permanent slush fund for growing government.” According to a recent analysis by the Department of the Treasury, TARP is now projected to cost $200 billion less than previously projected. Over $70 billion in TARP funding has already been repaid by banks, and Bank of America is set to repay an additional $45 billion as early as this week. The federal government has already realized a $10 billion profit in interest paid on the repaid loans. “TARP was never intended as a bailout,” said Simpson. “It was an investment in our financial system to ensure that our economy didn’t crash, allowing credit to be thawed and providing taxpayers with a long-term investment on which they would see a good return. I am deeply disappointed that the Obama Administration has instead used TARP funding as a bailout slush fund, and I am disgusted to see them trying to permanently redirect its unused and repaid funds into more government spending. Congress must stand firm on this issue: TARP has run its course, and the program needs to end now. In addition to cosponsoring H.R. 4110, Simpson has signed onto two other efforts to ensure that unused money and repaid funds are used only to pay off the debt. In separate letters to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Congressman Simpson and a number of his Republican colleagues are calling for the termination of TARP on December 31 and the return of all unused and repaid TARP funds to the Treasury for deficit reduction. “As the December 31, 2009, deadline for the end of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) approaches, we urge you to adhere to this expiration date and decline to use your authority to extend TARP into 2010. As additional preferred shares are repurchased and dividends and interest are collected, we also urge you to dedicate all returned funds and other revenue to reducing the national debt,” wrote Congressman Simpson and his colleagues in their letter to Secretary Geithner. “TARP has left a bad taste in the mouths of most Idahoans, including me, but it has served its purpose in stopping the hemorrhaging of our nation’s financial system in 2008 and lessened the blow of the recession we are currently facing. Having served its purpose it needs to end,” said Congressman Simpson. “The three actions I have undertaken will help bring the TARP era to a close, ensure taxpayers are fully repaid as the original TARP authorization required, and help block Democrats in their efforts to push through another ill-advised stimulus bill.”
12.07.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3758, the Teacher Tax Relief Act of 2009. This legislation would both increase the maximum tax deduction available for teachers purchasing classroom supplies from $250 to $500 and make this deduction permanent. “We all know teachers who buy extra supplies to use in their classroom, supplies that enhance learning and aid in the development of our youth,” Simpson said. “Allowing teachers to write off this additional expense makes sense and it is simply the right thing to do.” Currently, the classroom expense deduction available for educators is set to expire on December 31, 2009. This has created unnecessary uncertainty for teachers throughout the country, who are footing the bill for basic classroom supplies. H.R. 3758 would eliminate this uncertainty. H.R. 3758 also expands the current deduction to include expenses associated with qualified professional development pursuits and is endorsed by the National Education Association.
12.07.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined his colleagues on the Congressional Western Caucus in sending a letter to House and Senate leadership opposing the Clean Water Restoration Act. This legislation would dramatically expand federal jurisdiction over agricultural uses of water and is strongly opposed by Idaho’s agriculture community. The so-called Clean Water Restoration Act would remove the word “navigable” from the Clean Water Act’s definition of waters covered by the Act’s provisions, making virtually any water body in the United States potentially subject to EPA permitting and enforcement authorities. This would include water tanks, irrigation canals, ponds, drainage ditches, and even mud holes. Currently non-navigable waters are regulated by the States. “I’m deeply concerned that this legislation would give the federal government such a broad reach that it would significantly restrict farmers’ and ranchers’ ability to make decisions about their own property and threaten Idaho’s control over state water rights,” said Simpson. “The Clean Water Restoration Act is a big government land grab, pure and simple, and it is being forced on the agriculture community by people who don’t know the first thing about crops or cows.” Twenty-seven Senators and Members of Congress representing western states, including Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch, joined Congressman Simpson in signing the letter. The letter opposes any legislative effort to expand federal Clean Water Act jurisdiction over water in the West. “In the West, few things have been more important in our states’ history than water,” the letter reads. “In the areas we represent, where the frontier spirit of smaller government and individual liberty are still sacred traditions, there is overwhelming objection to this bill.” S.787, the Clean Water Restoration Act, was marked up in the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee in June, and Idaho Senator Mike Crapo has placed a hold on Senate consideration of the bill. A House companion to the legislation has not yet been introduced.
12.03.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today against H.R. 4154, legislation to make the existing estate tax permanent. The estate tax is scheduled for complete repeal next year. H.R. 4154 creates an unacceptable permanent tax rate of 45 percent. “The bottom line is that H.R. 4154 would impose higher taxes on Idaho’s farmers, ranchers, and small businesses. In the best of times I can’t support increasing taxes on Idaho families, but at a time when unemployment is in the double digits, imposing a greater tax burden on our nation’s job creators is utterly irresponsible,” said Simpson. “Instead of allowing the death tax to expire next year, they have decided to lock in this year’s higher tax rate and lower exemption level without indexing the tax for inflation, ensuring that farmers, ranchers, and small business owners will continue to be penalized when they try to pass on the family business.” The estate tax, commonly referred to as the “death tax,” places a huge burden on families who want to pass on the family farm or small business. The death tax accounts for less than one percent of the federal budget, but almost one-third of business owners are forced to sell their businesses or liquidate a portion of their assets to pay death taxes. The tax relief package passed by Congress in 2001 phased out the death tax over ten years, with a one-year complete repeal coming in 2010. Simpson has cosponsored H.R. 3905, the Estate Tax Relief Act, to provide permanent estate tax relief by permanently increasing the estate tax exemption to $5 million per person and reducing the top tax rate to 35%. This legislation is widely supported by agriculture and business groups, who oppose efforts like H.R. 4154 to lock in existing rates. "Even though the 2010 repeal isn’t permanent, it allows for the opportunity to make long-term, necessary changes to our tax structure to make it fairer for American families,” said Simpson "Unfortunately, rather than taking up broadly supported, significant reforms, H.R. 4154 simply retains the status quo.”
12.01.2009	Tonight the President announced his desire to send 30,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement concerning this announcement: “First and foremost, we must support our troops,” said Simpson. “I am grateful that President Obama has finally made a decision about the Afghanistan troop surge. It appears remarkably similar to former President Bush’s decision to implement the troop surge in Iraq; a strategy that has ultimately brought us closer to victory and allowing our troops to return home." "I remain concerned that President Obama has established an artificial timeline for Afghanistan which may embolden our enemies, thus making victory in Afghanistan more difficult.”
11.19.2009	“I was glad to see some “encouraging” news coming from the White House this week regarding the Democrat American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), the so-called stimulus. According to the recovery.gov website, Idaho’s eighth congressional district has received $618,253, and 29.2 jobs have been created. This would be great news for the eighth district, if only it existed. Memo to President Obama: Idaho has two congressional districts. While this blunder was a result of human error, it provides a telling look at what happens when large government bureaucracies try to justify themselves. If a business put out this type of misinformation, it would be called fraud. “While this is an amusing anecdote, the dramatic failure of this legislation is far from a joke. Jobs continue to be lost in record numbers, and unemployment has jumped to 10.2%, a 26-year high. Still, Democrats refuse to admit their stimulus plan has failed, and even claim outrageously that it has been a success. Well, the numbers don’t lie, and the American people aren’t buying it. Three million jobs have been lost since February when the ARRA passed. The State of Idaho continues to suffer, moving from 8.8% to 8.9% unemployment in October as 1,100 Idahoans lost their jobs. A record 67,300 workers are now without jobs in the State. “If the Administration’s “transparency” website is so flawed, should we believe any of the numbers coming out of the White House? When Vice President Biden announces that 1 million jobs have been saved or created by the $787 billion ARRA, is anyone listening? Now House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has announced that the Democrats have plans to pass a third stimulus in December. Does anyone think that she can get it right this time? “While Americans struggle to pay bills and keep food on the table, the Obama Administration and the Democrats in Congress continue to spend as if there were not record debts already on the books. While American jobs disintegrate they are working to ensure Khalid Sheikh Mohammed does not have his constitutional rights violated, and they continue to push a trillion-dollar plus health care government take-over and a cap-and-trade bill that will only further hamstring our economy. Meanwhile, President Obama has announced that he will host a White House “jobs summit” accompanied by a cross-country campaign-style tour to talk about the economy. This gives me little hope. “There are several Republican plans to restore jobs that I strongly support. H.R. 2021, the Savings Recovery Act, would take common-sense measures to help Americans rebuild their devastated savings by raising contribution and catch-up limits for retirement accounts and suspending minimum withdrawals from IRAs and 401Ks. I also support efforts to reduce onerous taxes on small businesses and individuals like H.R. 301, which would make the 2001 and 2003 tax relief permanent. We also must take steps to reduce duplicity and waste in the federal government with legislation like H.R. 393, the Federal Sunset Act, which would require a review of every federal agency to reorganize or abolish unnecessary bureaucracies. Unfortunately, Democratic leadership is unlikely to allow any of these bills to see the light of day, but prefers instead to lock out Republican ideas then label us the “party of no.” “The Democrats claim ARRA generated one million jobs and was a success, but even if you believe their estimate, each job was “created” at $787,000 a pop. Oh, and the taxpayer picked up the bill. Like many Americans, I’ve grown weary of this approach. We cannot afford to continue running up the bills on our national credit card. Let’s focus on real reform that will help our economy grow again.”
11.12.2009	Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 1835, the New Alterative Transportation to Give Americans Solutions, or NAT GAS, Act of 2009. H.R. 1835 focuses on increasing the availability of natural gas-fueled vehicles in the United States. “I have always been a strong proponent of using clean alternative fuels, including natural gas, as a part of any comprehensive plan to reduce our nation’s dependence on foreign oil,” Simpson said. “H.R. 1835 gives us the tools to move our transportation system away from the dangerous dependence on foreign oil and onto cleaner, domestically-produced energy sources.” Natural Gas Vehicle (NGV) technology is readily available in other areas of the world, and NGVs are manufactured by all domestic auto manufacturers for sale overseas. Natural gas is the only viable clean alternative energy source for heavy trucks. Yet the U.S. market for these vehicles is extremely limited. H.R. 1835 includes a number of tax incentives focused on encouraging the production and purchase of natural gas-fueled vehicles and provides grants for the development of light and heavy-duty natural gas vehicles and engines. “The U.S. has an abundant supply of natural gas,” said Simpson. “While we currently import nearly 70% of our oil, most of which is used for transportation, 98% of our natural gas comes from domestic sources. I strongly believe that H.R. 1835 is an important step in achieving energy independence for our nation.” H.R. 1835 was originally introduced by Representative Dan Boren (D-OK) and has 116 cosponsors.
11.07.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3962 that, if signed into law, will be the first step to government takeover of healthcare. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in an attempt to defeat the bill, however, it passed with a final vote of 220-215. “Pelosi is touting that she just passed legislation to make health care more affordable, but nothing could be further from the truth,” said Simpson. “The frightening reality for the American taxpayer and anyone who will need health care in the future is that she is hiding the true costs of this legislation and doing so in ways that will be disastrous to our nation’s long-term fiscal health.” In addition to the TRILLION dollar cost of H.R. 3962, the bill also contains the following provisions: • Includes a “surtax” on individuals making over a certain income, more than half of which are actually small businesses. Moreover, this tax will continue to entrap more and more middle class Americans every year as their incomes go up because, like the Alternative Minimum Tax, it is not indexed for inflation. • Drastically expands Medicaid, from 100% to 150% of federal poverty level. Starting in 2014, it will cost states, including Idaho, $34 billion to comply with another unfunded federal mandate--something state budgets simply cannot afford during these difficult economic times.. • Those individuals who choose not to purchase health insurance will have to pay a penalty. Americans will no longer get to choose whether or not they will purchase health insurance in the future because government will have already made that decision. • People who already have health insurance through their employers will be at risk of losing it. H.R. 3962 will implement expensive new mandates on all employer-provided health insurance that businesses must either comply or be faced with new taxes and penalties. For many employers, it will make more business sense to eliminate jobs or drop employees’ health insurance and pay the penalties rather than comply with Uncle Sam’s new rules. “During a time of record budget deficits, we cannot afford to create another trillion plus dollar entitlement program, like this bill does. However, we all agree that our current health system needs reform,” said Simpson. “I will be the first to admit that it is irresponsible to just say no to the current health legislation without offering commonsense alternatives that will actually bring down the cost of health care. For these reasons, I support measures to make health care more affordable and accessible without further drowning our nation in debt. Simpson and 66 of his colleagues have cosponsored H.R. 1086, the HEALTH Act. This bill would create effective medical malpractice reform by putting an end to junk lawsuits by placing caps on noneconomic damages and limiting attorney fees. This bill would save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 2607, the Small Business Healthcare Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy health care coverage. Large corporations and even labor unions already leverage their size and buying power to secure lower premiums and rates when buying health insurance for their employees and members. This bill would give America’s small businesses the same advantages and make health care coverage for their employees more affordable. In addition, Simpson supports reforms that would prohibit insurers from denying coverage to people because of pre-existing condition as well as reforms to make the purchase of health insurance for individuals tax-exempt like it is for employer-sponsored insurance. He also believes that we need to do more as a country to focus on prevention and early intervention. Simpson also supports prescription drug re-importation, which would control prescription drug costs by allowing Americans to buy FDA-approved prescription drugs from places such as Canada and Europe where drugs are sold for much less money. “I am disappointed to see that once again, the Democrats have failed to listen to the American people and passed health reform that all Americans could support,” Simpson said.
11.05.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today overwhelmingly passed legislation extending the First-Time Homebuyer Tax Credit Provision through April 30, 2010. The bill also creates a new tax credit for move-up buyers who have lived in their current residence for at least five years. The expanded tax credit was included as part of H.R. 3548, legislation that provides an extension of federal unemployment insurance benefits. “The mortgage crisis is at the root of the economic challenges we are currently facing, and the First-Time Homebuyer Tax Credit has been one of the few efforts to address the mortgage crisis that has actually worked,” said Simpson. “To turn the housing market around, we need to get people into homes, and I am encouraged by the strong support I have seen for extending this credit, both in Congress and among Idahoans who have talked to me about it.” The First-Time Homebuyer Tax Credit was originally created in 2008 as part of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act and was extended and expanded in early 2009. Without congressional action, the tax credit will expire at the end of the month. H.R. 3548 extends the credit again and creates a $6,500 tax credit for some first-time buyers, as well as makes a number of modifications to broaden the scope of the tax credit. Both categories of homebuyers have an additional 60 days to close on the home but must have a certified contract by April 30, 2010, and must be within income limits of $125,000 for individuals and $225,000 for couples. The bill also states that homes over the purchase price of $800,000 do not qualify. “I have long advocated for a responsible approach to the housing crisis, and I believe that providing tax incentives for responsible individuals to purchase new homes is a step in the right direction,” said Simpson. “Unlike a subprime mortgage or no down payment loan, a tax credit ensures that individuals are qualified for and can pay their mortgages and that they have a financial stake in their houses through a down payment.” Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 1245, the Homebuyer Tax Credit, which expands the existing credit to home purchases across the board. He is also a cosponsor of H.R. 1903, the Responsible Homeowners Act, which aims to keep families in their homes by lowering costs for all homeowners. H.R. 1903 includes a similar $15,000 tax credit for home purchases. The tax credit provision was added to H.R. 3548 by the Senate, where it passed without opposition. The amended legislation passed the House with a final vote of 403-12 and will now be sent to the President for his signature.
11.04.2009	“Speaker Pelosi is pushing ahead on a health care bill that will implement a government takeover of our health care system and put Americans’ current health coverage at risk. This bill does not reform our current health system, but instead creates another massive, unfunded entitlement program at a time when our country can least afford it. “We all agree that our current health system needs reform. I will be the first to admit that it is irresponsible to just say no to the current health legislation without offering a good alternative. I believe there are a number of measures all of us could support that will bring down health care costs for consumers and the American taxpayer while improving access to health care. “First, we must pass broad, effective medical malpractice reform. The Pelosi health bill claims to include incentives for states to implement “liability” reform, but in reality, states are only eligible if their laws do not limit attorneys’ fees or impose caps on damages. These limits mean that this provision would protect trial lawyers’ paychecks at the expense of patients and their doctors. I am a cosponsor of legislation that would implement meaningful liability reform. HR 1086, the HEALTH Act, would end junk lawsuits by placing caps on noneconomic damages and limiting attorney fees. This bill would save as much as $120 billion in wasteful spending by stemming the practice of defensive medicine. “I also support HR 2607, the Small Business Healthcare Fairness Act, which would allow small businesses to band together through associations to buy health care coverage. Large corporations and even labor unions already leverage their size and buying power to secure lower premiums and rates when buying health insurance for their employees and members. This bill would give America’s small businesses the same advantages and make health care coverage for their employees more affordable. “I believe we should allow cross-state purchasing of health insurance. Under the current system, the insurance market operates like 50 individual fiefdoms with each state in charge of insurance regulation and individuals limited to buying health insurance from local insurance providers. Allowing purchasing of insurance across state lines would increase competition in the insurance market as individuals would have more affordable health insurance options and end the monopolies that exist in many states. “In addition, I support reforms that would prohibit insurers from denying coverage to people because of pre-existing conditions. I also believe that we need to do more as a country to focus on prevention and early intervention. I a strong supporter of prescription drug re-importation as well. I am a cosponsor of HR 1298, the Pharmaceutical Market Access and Drug Safety Act of 2009, which would allow Americans to buy FDA-approved prescription drugs from places such as Canada and Europe. It is time that we take measures to control spiraling prescription drug costs, and this measure would prevent drug companies from charging Americans more than the rest of the world pays. “These are just a few of examples of reforms we could implement that would bring down the cost of health care for all Americans. The Republicans in the House have a plan that would make health care more affordable and accessible for all Americans without adding trillions to the deficit and putting our nation’s long-term fiscal health at risk. “Americans need and deserve REAL health reform. Now is the time to stand up and demand it.”
11.03.2009	“Speaker Pelosi and her team are gleefully proclaiming that their health care reform bill is budget neutral and cost under the arbitrary $900 billion limit that President Obama had set for health reform. So exuberant are they in announcing their supposed success at crafting “affordable” legislation that they are rushing the bill to the floor while implying that the American people support their efforts. “Nothing could be further from the truth. “The frightening reality for the American taxpayer and anyone who will need health care in the future is that she is hiding the true costs of these bills and doing so in ways that will be disastrous to our nation’s long-term fiscal health. “The first big myth is that this bill is deficit neutral and will not raise long-term government spending because it pays for itself. This is nonsense and the Democrats know it. Instead, they use fancy budget gimmicks to mask billions of dollars in additional costs. Already, the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has released a statement saying that the Pelosi health care bill will cost $1.2 trillion and not the $890 billion figure that Democrats were touting. Furthermore, CBO notes that many of these types of cost-saving measures, such as cutting Medicare reimbursements for providers, rarely occur. For example, Medicare reimbursements cuts for physicians have been on the books since 2002, but not once has Congress allowed those cuts to happen. The reason for this is clear -- if Congress did allow proposed cuts to providers such as hospitals, doctors, nursing homes and hospice care to occur, CBO notes that it would put Medicare recipients' access to care in grave danger. “But the Pelosi health care bill does not reform the formula that controls Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors. Instead, Democrats have introduced a separate bill costing over $200 billion—on top of the TRILLION plus bill already introduced--so they don’t have to include the cost of fixing this outdated formula in their already overpriced bill. “That is not the only way in which they are hiding the real impact of their health care reform efforts. There are too many outrageous provisions to list them all, but here are a few examples: We knew Democrats would raise taxes to pay for their plans, so the fact that this bill includes a “surtax” on individuals making over a certain income is no surprise. What they don’t admit is that this is really surtax on small businesses, which make up the majority of high-income filers. Furthermore, this tax will continue to entrap more and more middle class Americans every year as their incomes go up because, like the Alternative Minimum Tax, it is not indexed for inflation. The Democrats claim that this bill will greatly expand coverage to people who currently don’t have health insurance. What they don’t tell you is that most of these people will be covered through a dramatic expansion of Medicaid, from 100% to 150% of federal poverty level. Starting in 2014, it will cost states, including Idaho, $34 billion to comply with another unfunded federal mandate--something state budgets simply cannot afford. Under the Pelosi plan, if you choose not to purchase health insurance, you will have to pay a penalty. And if you choose not to pay the penalty, the government can arrest you. You will no longer get to choose whether or not you will purchase health insurance in the future because government will have already decided for you. For those of you who already have health insurance through your employer, this bill will put that coverage at risk. The Pelosi plan will implement expensive new mandates on all employer-provided health insurance, including yours, which businesses either must follow or face with new taxes and penalties. For many employers, it will make more business sense to eliminate jobs or drop employees’ health insurance and pay the penalties than comply with Uncle Sam’s new rules. “There isn’t space in this small column to illustrate all of the ways in which the Pelosi health plan falls short of their rhetoric. But the few examples I am able to provide above should give anyone pause before you fall victim to their outrageous claim that their TRILLION plus bill will save you and the American people money. “I don’t believe it and I hope you won’t either.” If you would like to read all 1,990 pages of Pelosi’s bill, click here.
11.02.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3905, the Estate Tax Relief Act of 2009. The legislation increases the estate tax exemption to $5 million per person and reduces the top rate to 35% in equal increments over ten years. More than 98% of America’s two million farms and ranches are owned by family partnerships and family corporations. These family businesses produce about 86% of the U.S. agriculture products, and the estate tax threatens their livelihood. “The estate tax hits farm families especially hard, and I have consistently supported efforts to permanently repeal or reduce the impact of this burdensome, unfair tax,” said Simpson. “Throughout their lives, people pay sales tax, property tax, and income tax on their assets. Paying Uncle Sam again should not be part of the grieving process.” The death tax accounts for less than one percent of the federal budget, but almost one-third of business owners are forced to sell their businesses or liquidate a portion of their assets to pay death taxes. Far from benefiting only the richest citizens, the repeal of the death tax assists people such as farmers, ranchers, small business owners, and grandparents who have worked their whole lives to pass something on to their children and grandchildren. Congressman Simpson is also a cosponsor of H.R. 3524, the Family Farm Preservation and Conservation Estate Tax Act, which provides estate tax exclusion for farms and ranches as long as family farmland use continues. H.R. 3905 is a bipartisan bill that enjoys sponsorship by Representatives Shelley Berkley (D-NV), Kevin Brady (R-TX), Artur Davis (D-AL), Devin Nunes (R-CA)
10.29.2009	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Jim Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick have notified commanders at Mountain Home Air Force Base and the Idaho Air National Guard they have both qualified as top five locations, in their respective categories, under consideration for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter. The two locations are not competing against each other as Mountain Home Air Force Base is under consideration for the operation of up to three squadrons of the F-35, while the Boise Air Terminal is being considered for training and support missions through the Idaho Air National Guard. “It is great news that the Air Force has chosen both the Boise Air National Guard and Mountain Home Air Force Base as candidate sites for the Joint Strike Fighter," said Simpson. "Idaho has excellent training facilities, top notch military personnel, and outstanding community support. I look forward to working with the Air Force as they continue with their assessments." The Air Force considered 205 bases in this initial selection round on various factors including: airspace, flight training ranges, weather, support facilities, runways, taxi ramps, environmental concerns and cost. Military efficiencies, operational plans and building partnerships were also weighed. The next step in the base selection process includes a formal environmental analysis, site surveys and public meetings. Senior Air Force officials will then evaluate that and other data before announcing their preferred locations in late spring of 2010 and a record of decision by early 2011. Initial deployment of the F-35 begins in 2013, with 250-300 aircraft projected for delivery by 2017. Sites not selected in the initial deployment will continue to be evaluated as potential homes for the 1,763 total aircraft slated for purchase by 2035.
10.29.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today supported passage of a bill to assist small businesses. H.R. 3854, the Small Business Financing and Investment Act of 2009, is made up of eight individual bills that deal with a variety of small business loan programs. “Although Republicans and Democrats unfortunately find little to agree on these days, we all agree that small businesses play an absolutely crucial role in our economy,” said Simpson. “They enhance innovation, enrich communities, provide jobs, and will lead the way out of this recession.” Among other things, the bill strengthens the Small Business Association’s (SBA) ability to help credit worthy small businesses access capital through loans. It increases the amount lenders can provide, streamlines the loan process, and makes loan guarantees to small health care firms purchasing health information technology. According to the bill’s sponsors, it could create and sustain as many as 1.3 million new jobs. H.R. 3854 specifically directs the SBA to further support small businesses in rural areas, in low-income areas, businesses in the renewable-energy industry, businesses owned by veterans and those owned by young people. “Many small businesses are being turned away by lenders because of the current economic climate,” Simpson said. “This bill will make sources of financing more accessible.”
10.28.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured funding to help Idaho communities meet Clean Water Act standards and for efforts to recover sage-grouse as part of the final Fiscal Year 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. Simpson is the Ranking Republican member on the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Department of Interior, the Forest Service, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and helped lead a conference committee meeting that worked out differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill late last night. “In my opinion, one of the most important provisions contained in this bill is the reform of the way we fund wildfires every year,” said Simpson. “The inclusion of a wildfire suppression reserve fund in this bill was one of my highest priorities for this fiscal year. This legislation will give our nation’s fire fighters and land management agencies the predictability and stability they need to fight wildfires without doing irreparable harm to other important aspects of their budgets.” Among the provisions which were included in the final bill at Simpson’s urging were the following: The provisions of legislation known as the FLAME Act. The bill creates a FLAME Wildfire Suppression Reserve Funds for the Forest Service and the Department of Interior to ensure a dedicated, steady, and predictable funding stream for wildfire suppression activities. The reforms are intended to reverse years of inefficient wildfire funding practices in which agencies have to take funds from other critical needs in order to meet increasing wildfire demands. The highest level of funding ever for hazardous fuels reduction, a total of $556 million -- an increase of $25 million over last year. With the inclusion of the FLAME Fund in the bill, this funding will be used specifically for fuels reduction instead of being funneled into suppression as in previous years. Language to prohibit funds from being used to implement EPA rules requiring mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from livestock manure. This language will protect farmers and ranchers from burdensome, unnecessary regulations at a time when the agriculture industry is struggling. $1 million for a new Wolf Livestock Predation Program, which provides states like Idaho with funding to reimburse ranchers for livestock depredation caused by the state’s wolf population. $1 million for the State of Idaho’s Sage-Grouse Management Plan and efforts to conserve sage-grouse across the State of Idaho and prevent a listing of the species under the Endangered Species Act. $750,000 for the City of Buhl Wastewater Systems Improvement. The EPA and Idaho DEQ have mandated that the city build a new wastewater treatment center, and the funding would enable the city to meet Clean Water Act requirements, improving water quality for the citizens of Buhl “I am also pleased that the bill contains important funding for Idaho livestock producers to help the State of Idaho conserve sage-grouse and a new program to reimburse ranchers for livestock losses due to wolf depredation,” said Simpson. “Finally, I strongly support the inclusion in the bill of funding to assist the City of Buhl with the construction of its wastewater system improvements. Cities like Buhl are struggling to meet federal water standards, and I believe the federal government has a responsibility to assist small communities.” The bill also includes funding for the following Idaho projects: $1,200,000 for trail construction and maintenance in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area; $400,000 to acquire property for a bike trail in the SNRA; $300,000 for the City of American Falls Wastewater System Improvements $150,000 for state stabilization of the Old Idaho State Penitentiary. Reprogramming of existing funding in the Land and Water Conservation Fund to the Upper Snake/South Fork of the Snake River ACEC. The House is expected to consider the conference report later this week. It will then go back to the Senate where it will be voted on without additional amendment before being sent to President Obama for his signature. To view Congressman Simpson's floor debate on his Motion to Instruct click here.
10.26.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, Ranking Member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, offered a motion on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to protect farmers from greenhouse gas reporting requirements put in place by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Simpson’s motion instructs conferees who are working out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for FY2010 to include a provision that was included in the House-passed bill. The provision prohibits funds in the bill from being used to implement any rule requiring mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from livestock manure. “The livestock industry is being hammered by the downturn in our national economy,” said Simpson. “Frozen credit markets have left farmers and ranchers without the credit they need to run their day-to-day operations, and many have been forced to sell their land or declare bankruptcy. Now is not the time to pile the regulatory burden onto these operations, forcing even more of them to fail.” According to the EPA, livestock manure management systems account for less than one percent of all human-induced greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S., yet the cost to producers of regulating these emissions is extremely expensive and burdensome. The EPA currently only exempts manure management systems that emit less than 25,000 metric tons of greenhouse gasses annually. “Right now, farmers and ranchers are hanging on by a thread,” Simpson said. “If we doom too many American farmers to failure through overzealous regulation, we will quickly find ourselves dependent on other countries’ farmers to meet our needs.” The conference report on the Interior Appropriations bill is expected to be considered by the House later this week.
10.15.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the decision by the United States Postal Service to no longer pursue consolidation of three post offices in Idaho. After considering every factor, and after outcry from customers and local leaders, the USPS declared it would no longer consider closing the Pocatello Bannock Station, the Boise Collister Station or the Boise Airport Station. "The USPS made the right decision," said Simpson. "These particular post offices are of significant importance to their respective communities. The Pocatello Bannock Station is not only a big part of the culture in the Old Town area, but its closure would have created difficulties for many local businesses. Similarly, the closure of the Boise Collister Station and Airport Station would have created major inconveniences for people who have used those reliable stations for years." After hearing from a large number of Idahoans, Simpson wrote a letter to Postmaster General John E. Potter urging him to keep all three locations open and operating. He wrote "While I understand that USPS has serious financial problems and must take action to streamline their operations, I believe these stations should remain open."
10.08.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored H.R. 3749, that recognizes the heritage of recreational fishing, hunting, and shooting on federal public lands and ensures continued opportunities for these activities. Simpson is the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment that provides funding for the Department of Interior. “Idaho is known across the country as a great place to hunt and fish, and many Idahoans consider the opportunity to pursue these activities as one of the best things about living in our state,” said Simpson. “Public lands offer outdoor sportsmen and women the chance to hunt, fish, and shoot in many of Idaho’s most beautiful wild places, and I want to ensure that they continue to have access to these areas.” The legislation directs the U.S. Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, the agencies that oversee most of our public lands, to provide for and promote sportsmen’s use and access in their land management plans. “Another area of concern that sportsmen face is limited areas for recreational shooting,” said Simpson. “This bill removes impediments so that land managers can choose to designate specific areas specifically for recreational shooting. I believe that writing these protections into law will help to ensure our sportsmen have continued access” Other provisions in H.R. 3749: • Requires that all federal public land planning evaluates the effects of management alternatives on sportsmen’s activities, providing a clear and informed picture of how proposed actions will affect the historic and traditional users. • Recognizes the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council and the Sporting Conservation Council as policy advisors to the Administration on issues relevant to the wildlife conservation and sportsmen’s communities. • Assures states’ authority to manage fish and wildlife on federal public lands.
10.02.2009	In a letter addressed to President Obama, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, along with other Members of Congress, requested the President increase the number of border agents to ensure that we are able to protect our nation’s borders. The letter stated the need for securing our borders is a top national security priority. It expressed that the border agents who patrol the southern border play an instrumental role in this effort and urged the President to allocate the number of border agents necessary to protect the border. “Our borders are not secure and they are not safe,” said Simpson. “In July, Border Agent Robert Rosas was murdered near the border while tracking illegal immigrants. A few weeks ago, a human smuggler tried to run over an agent. We must put an end to this needless and reckless violence and secure our borders.” The U.S.-Mexico border is 1,954 miles long. During a hearing before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Field Operations Todd Owen estimated that only 697 miles of the Mexican border are under effective control. That leaves more than 1,200 miles of our southern border vulnerable to illegal crossings by drug smugglers, terrorists, human traffickers and other criminals. Members of Congress urged the President to not reduce the number of agents, writing, “Now is not the time to reduce the number of agents protecting the United States along the border with Mexico. We are concerned about this crisis and are willing to work with you to ensure that the Border Patrol has the workforce necessary to accomplish its mission, including reducing border violence and stopping the flow of illegal immigrants.”
09.30.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and an appointee to House and Senate negotiations on a final Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations bill, today announced the inclusion of substantial increases in funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy. The legislation was approved today by House and Senate conferees on a voice vote. The legislation includes an increase of $33 million over current funding levels for new facilities and other infrastructure improvements at INL bringing total infrastructure funding to $173 million. Just two years ago, the budget requested just $104 million for Idaho infrastructure funding. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. Simpson has made additional funding for new infrastructure at INL a top priority over the past three fiscal years. “Thanks to the hard work and dedication of those who work at INL, substantial new resources are headed Idaho’s way to improve facilities and expand the capabilities of some of the lab's premier resources,” said Simpson. “This funding is the second installment of a multi-year commitment by the DOE and Congress to revitalize the INL’s infrastructure to support the revival of nuclear energy in the United States.” Among its many provisions, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill also includes: Level funding from Fiscal Year 2009 for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant of $169 million. The NGNP is designed to produce both electricity and heat for industrial applications. INL is the Department of Energy’s lead laboratory on research and development of the NGNP. $10 million for INL’s Light Water Reactor Sustainability Program. The Program focuses on maintenance and life extension of our nation’s current fleet of nuclear reactors. $464.168 million for cleanup activities at INL, which is a $59 million increase over President Obama’s FY2010 requested amount. A $20 million increase for the treatment of Sodium Bonded Fuel at INL. The treatment will include fuel originally used in the Experimental Breeder Reactor II and fuel transferred from Hanford, WA. $1 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. “The provisions of this bill will expand reactor development, continue fuel cycle research, and push the development of the Center for Advanced Energy Studies,” said Simpson. “The new funding in this bill can only be seen as a complete endorsement by Congress of the leadership role INL is playing in our nation’s nuclear renaissance.”
09.30.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development and an appointee to House and Senate negotiations on a final Fiscal Year 2010 Subcommittee funding bill, today announced the inclusion of funding for four Idaho projects as part of a final negotiated bill funding the Department of Energy and Army Corps of Engineers. The legislation was approved today by a House and Senate Conference Committee by a voice vote. Among its many provisions, the legislation includes funding for the following Idaho projects: • $100,000 for efforts to rehabilitate 1.5 miles of a channel along the Little Wood River that flows within Gooding city limits. Large portions of the existing lava rock walls that line the Little Wood River through the city are structurally unserviceable and many have failed and fallen into the channel. This rate of deterioration has increased at an alarming rate. The project will remove and replace the existing rock wall and the boxed culverts that severely restrict the stream channel flow. $1.5 million for a Medical Isotope Production Program at Idaho State University’s Idaho Accelerator Center. The program will help meet our nation’s demand for medical isotopes and greatly increase the nuclear research and education capabilities of Idaho State University in an area of immense importance – nuclear medicine. $1 million for the City of Boise’s Geothermal System Expansion Project. The Project is an ongoing effort to extend the existing geothermal system to facilities at Boise State University and encourage development of non-university areas along Capitol Boulevard. Boise State University is already making improvements to existing buildings that would allow them, and future buildings, to utilize geothermal heat. $3.875 million for the rural Idaho community water system improvement program through the Army Corps of Engineers Section 595 program. This is an ongoing program that has assisted numerous Idaho communities with repairs, expansion, or replacement of aging water and wastewater infrastructure. “My staff and I have visited each one of these projects and met firsthand with those who brought them to our attention. These are good projects that meet a specific state, local, or national need and bring real value to Idaho communities,” said Simpson. “I want to thank Mayor Duke Morton of Gooding and Mayor Dave Bieter of Boise, along with ISU President Art Vailas, for working with my office to identify these projects and advocate for them on a federal level. The outstanding efforts and vision of these three individuals and their staff are what made the award of this funding possible.” The bill now heads back to the House and Senate for final approval which is expected later this week.
09.23.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pushing for a House vote on a resolution to require a 72-hour review period to read legislation before it is brought to the House floor for a vote. Simpson, who is one of 98 cosponsors of the resolution, has signed a discharge petition that would force House leadership to bring it to the House floor for consideration. “There is no doubt that rushed legislation results in poor laws,” said Simpson. “When we bypass the committee process or bring legislation to the floor that we have not had an opportunity to thoroughly vet, we make mistakes that cost the American taxpayers time and money. We must put an end to the practice of posting a bill in the dead of night and then bringing it to the floor only hours later. Members of Congress, staff, and the American people all deserve time to review bills before a vote is requested.” This bipartisan resolution, H.Res. 554, amends House rules in order to guarantee that all Members of Congress and the American public can easily access, via the Internet, complete legislation and conference reports at least 72 hours before they are considered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays unless the House is in session on such a day. Normally, each measure introduced in the House cannot receive floor consideration until leadership places it on the schedule. The “discharge rule” allows a measure that is supported by a majority of House Members to come before the House, in spite of the unwillingness of majority leadership to schedule it. In order to force H.Res. 554 to the floor, 218 Members must sign the discharge petition that is being held by the House Clerk. “This is not a new concept, it is one that we’ve been advocating for years,” said Simpson. “Americans deserve to know what their representatives are voting on and how new laws will impact their lives. They are demanding more transparency, and it is our responsibility to deliver.”
09.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today opposed H.R. 3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2009. This bill does away with the Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) program, which has been providing subsidized loans to students for more than 40 years and has over 2,000 lenders participating. Instead, it shifts all student loans to the taxpayer financed, government-run Direct Loan program, resulting in the loss of an estimated 35,000 to 50,000 jobs in the student lending industry. “This bill limits choices for students and parents seeking educational loans at a time when the current economic environment has made it especially difficult to obtain the financing necessary to continue their education,” said Simpson. “My democrat colleagues continue to believe that increasing spending and expanding the reach of government into the lives of ordinary citizens is the answer to the problems facing our nation. I couldn’t disagree more.” Simpson supported the Republican substitute to the bill, which would have extended the FFEL program through 2014 and created a commission to develop a new private sector model for student lending to streamline and modernize the system. Unfortunately, the Republican proposal was defeated. H.R. 3221 passed the House of Representatives with a final vote of 253-171. It now moves to the Senate for consideration.
09.16.2009	Washington, DC – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is cosponsoring two bills to provide greater oversight into the role of czars in the Obama Administration and require the confirmation of these high-level special policy advisors by the United States Senate. Simpson is an outspoken critic of the designation of dozens of czars who have been appointed since Obama took office and is concerned about this growing inclination by the Administration to by-pass the confirmation process laid out by the Constitution. “Like many of my constituents, I am deeply concerned that the Administration has, in its first eight months in office, appointed over thirty czars to positions of immense authority on key public policies,” said Simpson. “If these czars are so important to policy formulation, they should be nominated as cabinet secretaries and subjected to background checks and the other rigors of our Constitution’s system of checks and balances. Instead, it appears that the President has chosen to surround himself with high-level advisors who could not otherwise withstand the scrutiny of the Senate confirmation process.” Simpson has signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 3226, authored by Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA). Under the provisions of the bill, all funding would be eliminated for czars who hold non-interim senior positions in the Administration after bypassing the Senate confirmation process. The bill will subject czars to a public confirmation process, allowing the Congress and the general public a chance to approve or disapprove of their appointment. Simpson has also signed onto a House Resolution offered by Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) that would require the President to report to Congress on the responsibilities and qualifications of appointed czars and certify that czars will not act outside their legal authority. “The Constitution sets out a system of checks and balances that ensures one branch of government does not accumulate too much power,” said Simpson. “The legislation I am supporting would restore those checks and balances that are so important to our system of government and shine some light on the way in which these czars are appointed.”
09.15.2009	Idaho Congressman supports legislation to immediately end all federal funding of ACORN services and activities Washington, DC – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is supporting legislation to immediately end any financial ties between ACORN and the United States Government. The Association of Community Organizers for Reform Now, widely known as ACORN, has been the subject of numerous allegations of impropriety, including providing repeated advice for getting around federal laws and voter fraud during 2008 Presidential Election. “There can no longer be any doubt that ACORN is a partisan, political organization engaged in specific and willful acts to defraud the United States Government and circumvent the law,” said Simpson. “It is appalling that taxpayer dollars are being funneled through ACORN, and the legislation I am supporting would put an immediate stop to this injustice.” Simpson said simply stopping the supply of federal funding to ACORN is not enough, “I strongly believe the Internal Revenue Service needs to examine the tax-exempt status ACORN now enjoys and the Department of Justice needs to investigate federal criminal charges against the organization and its leadership. The United States Census Bureau has already terminated is relationship with ACORN and I am calling on the Department of Housing and Urban Affairs and all other federal agencies to do the same,” said Simpson. Recent media reports have disclosed several instances of ACORN staffers assisting people engaged in illegal activities with how they can subvert federal law, including efforts to launder the proceeds from a prostitution ring. These reports follow widespread evidence of voter fraud by ACORN during the 2008 Presidential Election and the U.S. Census Bureau’s termination of contracts with ACORN on September 11 of this year. The legislation, which does not yet have a bill number, was introduced today by House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH). Simpson, who is an original cosponsor of the bill, has also sent a letter to conferees on the Transportation and HUD appropriations bill asking them to include a Senate-passed provision to de-fund ACORN.
09.09.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement concerning Idaho’s wolf hunt today, after meeting with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Director Sam Hamilton. “The judge’s decision to uphold Idaho’s wolf hunt was welcome news. In a conversation with Fish and Wildlife Service Director Sam Hamilton this morning, I again expressed my support for the decision to delist the wolves and put management in the hands of capable state agencies,” said Simpson. “Idaho’s hunters have acted responsibly and I want to commend them for doing so in the face of uninformed and undeserved criticism. I also want to commend Governor Otter for setting reasonable limits in order to manage these animals effectively.”
09.09.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored H. Res. 721 that calls on the House of Representatives to make completed health reform legislation available to members and the public for one month before it is brought up for a floor vote. The legislation was introduced by Congressman Jerry Lewis, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee. “We know when Congress rushes legislation, especially large, expounding pieces of legislation, many mistakes are made,” said Simpson. “Once this bell is rung, it can not be undone. We MUST have a thoughtful, bipartisan discussion that yields a bill which includes common sense reforms, including tort reform, association health plans, deductibility of health insurance costs for individuals, and drug re-importation to name a few. One thing has been made abundantly clear, the American people do not want a public option and Congress has an obligation to listen to their constituents.” The health reform legislation that is being considered in the House has been marked up by three separate committees, and there will likely be no formal hearings on the final version of the bill. H.R. 3200 is already more than 1,000 pages long. “This legislation will be one of the most far-reaching policy changes most members of Congress ever consider, and it is absolutely essential that we know every word and sentence before a vote is taken,” said Lewis.
09.09.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following response to President Obama’s speech concerning his health care plan. “I agree with President Obama, our healthcare system needs to be reformed. However, the President and the Democratic Leadership have still not fully grasped the crystal clear message the American people sent Washington over August. They don’t want a government-run health care system under any circumstances. Given that clear message, and the dire fiscal situation of the federal government, there is simply no way this Congress should even consider such a dramatic shift in the way health care is delivered in the United States. Instead, Congress should slow down and consider more targeted reforms of the current system including tort reform, re-importation of prescription drugs, association health plans, deductibility of health insurance costs for individuals, and insurance competition across states lines. These reforms, and others like them, hold the real promise of gaining strong bi-partisan support while at the same time reducing health care costs and improving access and affordability of care to those who currently lack it.”
07.31.2009	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today applauded a decision by the United States Department of Agriculture to provide additional assistance to dairy producers in the wake of terrible economic conditions in the industry. Simpson and Minnick had written to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack earlier in the week asking for this assistance. “I am very appreciative to Secretary Vilsack for his quick response to our request, and those of others, for assistance to this vital sector of Idaho’s economy,” said Simpson. “The assistance being provided to dairy producers is being done under existing programs and existing authorities that were put in place to deal with economic emergencies such as those now facing the dairy industry. Along with Congressman Minnick, I will continue to monitor the impact of this decision and consider additional ways in which we might mitigate the impact of the current situation.” “Like most of my constituents, I very much appreciate Secretary Vilsack’s quick action to help Idaho’s dairy farmers and assist struggling families,” Minnick said. “Congressman Simpson and I share a deep respect for all that the dairy industry means to Idaho, and an appreciation for the need to make sure Idaho farmers and ranchers have the kinds of stable markets which are crucial to Idaho’s economy.” The action announced today will help support struggling dairy farmers by increasing the amount paid for dairy products through the Dairy Product Price Support Program (DPPSP). USDA estimates show that these increases, which will be in place from August 2009 through October 2009, will increase dairy farmers' revenue by $243 million. The price support increases will raise the price paid for nonfat dry milk from $0.80 per pound to $0.92 per pound, the price paid for cheddar blocks from $1.13 per pound to $1.31 per pound, and the price of cheddar barrels from $1.10 per pound to $1.28 per pound. This increase in the support price will have an immediate effect upon dairy farmers' bottom line. Temporarily raising the price of these dairy products increases the price that dairy farmers receive for their milk. USDA also announced that it is currently reviewing federal dairy policy to determine what changes are needed to reduce price volatility and enhance farmer profitability. Both Simpson and Minnick are charter members of the newly revived Congressional Dairy Caucus.
07.30.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today announced the inclusion of funding for two research projects headquartered in Pocatello as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill. The bill passed the House today by a vote of 400-30. Among its many provisions, the Fiscal Year 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill includes $2 million in funding for the development of accelerator-driven non-destructive testing technologies at Idaho State University’s, Idaho Accelerator Center. The program will help develop non-destructive technologies and techniques for detecting flaws and irregularities in aircraft and equipment that would otherwise have to be taken apart or destroyed. For example, the development of these techniques will help the U.S. Air Force reduce aircraft downtime necessary for inspection and enhance turn-around times by more quickly identifying needed repairs through spectroscopy and the use of x-ray. “This is another area where ISU’s Accelerator Center is using its world class capabilities to help meet a national need and improve the ability of our military to successfully accomplish its mission,” said Simpson. “Idaho is fortunate to be home to the exciting research being conducted everyday at the Idaho Accelerator Center and I am proud to support the efforts of Idaho State University and President Vailas to improve and expand the Center’s capabilities.” The bill also includes $2 million in funding for ON Semiconductor’s ongoing research into Radiation Hardened Cryogenic Read-Out Integrated Circuits. Read-Out Integrated Circuits are the foundation of thermal imaging systems like those that allow soldiers to see at night. Thermal imaging systems are pervasive in the United States defensive systems, including in space-based imaging and reconnaissance drones, anti-ballistic missile systems, the Joint Strike Fighter program, and night vision systems on the ground. The aim of ON Semiconductor’s research is to produce circuits with significantly improved capabilities while at the same time lowering their cost to the military and taxpayer. “ON Semiconductor and its researchers are on the cutting edge of technologies that will improve the capabilities of our nation’s military,” said Simpson. “I strongly support this project not just because of the benefits it has for economic development in eastern Idaho, but because it is providing enhanced capability to our military and real value to taxpayers.” The Defense Appropriations bill now awaits action in the Senate.
07.29.2009	“After about a week of examining H.R. 3200, the Democrats’ health care bill, I am only more convinced that it is not the solution to our health care crisis. The proposal puts a huge burden on Idaho’s small businesses, passing along the enormous costs of the program to our chief job creators even as unemployment approaches double digits. For months Democrats sang the praises of their plan, but their rhetoric has collided head-on with common sense, and support for their health care proposal is fading in Congress. While there are some who maintain that the government-run health care plan, with its TRILLION-dollar price tag and its employer mandate, is the best option, many moderate Democrats and nearly every Republican opposes it. “It was the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), a non-partisan agency charged with providing Congress with unbiased budgetary information that revealed the TRILLION dollar cost of the plan. Democrats have proposed to pay for it with a tax hike on those making $280,000 per year, 60% of whom are small business owners, and included burdensome requirements on all but the smallest employers. “These provisions are nothing short of an attack on small business in this country, and the pay-or-play mandate is the most egregious. It would penalize any business with a payroll exceeding $400,000 a year (employing about five to nine people) that fails to provide health insurance for its workers. The fine would be 8% of payroll. What Democrats forget is that because health care costs have increased so dramatically, many small businesses simply cannot afford to offer coverage to all their employees. In no way does this penalty help employers expand coverage; it will only punish those that cannot afford to offer government sanctioned plans. “The pay-or-play mandate will reduce the hiring of minimum wage workers because their wages would not be able to decline sufficiently to meet the costs of the new tax. Simply put, workers would absorb the costs of the pay-or-play fee as wages are reduced or jobs are eliminated. Fortunately, over the last few days, even Democrats in the Senate have begun to realize that the pay-or-play is terrible policy and are working to eliminate this harmful provision. I hope my House colleagues will follow suit; however as of now I have seen no such efforts. “I am deeply concerned about rising health care costs for employers and consumers in Idaho. As a former dentist, I am well aware of the challenges that our existing health care system faces. Businesses large and small alike are struggling to provide health insurance for their employees. Clearly, demanding that Idaho businesses provide health care coverage without giving them the tools to do so is not the answer. History has shown that it is small businesses that have pulled our economy out of recessions in the past, and it should be no different now. It is crucial that we resist attempts to place new anti-stimulative burdens and taxes on small businesses. “The reform proposal has little support from the right and has fractured the left. Congress can and must do better. There are ways to bring down cost and improve access to care for everyone while still avoiding the inefficiencies and colossal price tag of a government-run system, and avoid heavy-handed policies like a pay-or-play mandate. A divided Congress is bound to fail. It is time for Democrats to open the door to Republicans so we can come together to produce a workable, cost efficient solution.”
07.22.2009	“When Congressional Democrats bring their healthcare reform legislation to the House floor, I will be voting NO and I want to take a few moments to explain why. Everyone agrees that our healthcare system needs to be reformed. Healthcare in America is too expensive and too many Idaho families are worried about losing or have already lost their health coverage. Businesses, small and large alike, are struggling to provide health insurance for their employees, and too many are being forced to ask employees to share the cost of higher premiums and co-payments in response. “Regrettably, rather than working on real reforms to improve access to healthcare for all Americans, Democrats in the House are debating a bill that would raise Americans’ taxes, create a massive new tax burden and do little to address the problems in our current health system. Rather, at a cost of more than a TRILLION dollars, HR 3200, the America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, will create a government-run healthcare program that will cause millions of Americans to lose their current coverage, place new burdensome requirements on small businesses and individuals, put seniors’ access to care at risk by decreasing Medicare reimbursements, and increase taxes on our nation’s small business owners, farmers, ranchers, and families. I cannot and will not support this legislation. “Instead of creating another absurdly expensive government bureaucracy that would do little to improve our health system, we should be focused on measures that will make quality healthcare more affordable and accessible to everyone, regardless of where they choose to live or what pre-existing condition they may have. The current healthcare debate focuses almost completely on how to reduce the number of uninsured in America. I agree—too many Americans who want health insurance can’t afford to pay for the coverage. However, we are focusing our energy on the wrong problem. As people living in rural Idaho know first-hand, having health insurance does not guarantee access to healthcare. In numerous areas in Idaho, there is not even one full-time practicing physician. Many of us have problems finding a doctor accepting patients, and for those Idahoans who rely on Medicare or Medicaid, finding a doctor who accepts their insurance presents an even greater challenge. I support measures that would allow those Americans who like their coverage to keep it and give all Americans the freedom to choose health plans that best meet their needs. “While the U.S. offers the most advanced medical treatments and newest therapies for illnesses in the world, we are lagging behind in the areas of prevention and early treatment. As a country, we spend significantly more on healthcare in the last six months of life than we do on the first six. Our healthcare system is reaction-based rather than prevention-based. As a dentist, I have seen first-hand the benefits of prevention and early intervention. Instead of treating a victim of heart attack after it happens, we should be working with patients to lower their risk of heart attack before it happens. We should be focusing more on how to prevent disease or treat it early when it is most cost-effective and the outcomes are best. Unfortunately, the Democrats’ health reform bill fails to accomplish these goals. “Instead of moving ahead with HR 3200, which would cost trillions of dollars without doing anything to address the real challenges facing healthcare, we should be working together to find a bipartisan solution that would make healthcare more affordable and improve access to quality care for all Americans.”
07.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of funding for a program to produce medical isotopes from accelerators at Idaho State University and the expansion of the City of Boise’s geothermal system to Boise State University as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy. The legislation was approved today in the House of Representatives by a vote of 320-97. Among its many provisions, the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Bill includes $1.5 million in funding for the development of a medical isotope production facility at the Idaho Accelerator Center at Idaho State University. The facility will help meet our nation’s demand for medical isotopes and greatly increase the nuclear research and education capabilities of Idaho State University in an area of immense importance – nuclear medicine. “Idaho State University and its researchers are building a tremendous capability to produce medical isotopes at the Idaho Accelerator Center,” said Simpson. “As foreign supplies of medical isotopes become less reliable, ISU is moving to fill a demand that will go on for decades to come and make Pocatello a national center for the production of this vital medical technology. There is a compelling national need for medical isotopes and a clear taxpayer interest in ensuring the growth of domestic supplies. I commend ISU for their tremendous efforts in this area.” The bill also includes $1 million in funding for the City of Boise’s Geothermal Expansion Project to Boise State University. The Project is an ongoing effort to extend the existing geothermal system to facilities at Boise State University and encourage development of non-university areas along Capitol Boulevard. Boise State University is already making improvements to existing buildings that would allow them, and future buildings, to utilize geothermal heat. “In an era of tightening energy supplies and concerns about climate change, I commend the City of Boise and Boise State University for their leadership in expanding this renewable, non-emitting source of heat and further diversifying Idaho’s energy supply,” said Simpson. “This is a good project and I am proud to support it.” The Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill now awaits action in the Senate.
07.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion $100,000 to initiate improvements to a wall channeling the Little Wood River through Gooding, Idaho, as part of legislation funding the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Simpson sought the funding in response to a request from the City of Gooding. “My staff and I have visited Gooding on a number of occasions and seen firsthand the condition of the River Wall and the threat it poses to human safety and adjacent property owners,” said Simpson. “I have made the restoration of the Wall one of my priorities over the next few years and am pleased to report that Congress is making an initial investment in the Community’s effort to repair this structure. I want to commend Mayor Morton and the City Staff for their hard work and dedication to improving this structure.” “The City of Gooding has been hoping for this opportunity to begin work on the River Wall for many years. I am very excited that the funding process has been initiated,” said Gooding Mayor Duke Morton. “We appreciate the hard work of Congressman Mike Simpson and his staff to get the ball rolling on this project. We are looking forward to the work ahead over the next four or five years to bring this project to conclusion.” According information provided by the City, approximately 1.5 miles of the Little Wood River flow within Gooding city limits. In the 1930's and early 40's the Works Progress Administration’s Civilian Conservation Corps constructed a masonry rock wall to channelize the Little Wood River in order to protect the city from flooding. Over the years, aging, high water, and ice jams have caused severe deterioration of the walls. Large portions of the existing lava rock walls that line the Little Wood River through the city are structurally unserviceable and many have failed and fallen into the channel. This rate of deterioration has increased at an increasing rate. The project will remove and replace the existing rock wall and the boxed culverts that severely restrict the stream channel flow. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill. The bill funds programs within the U.S. Department of Energy, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, and a number of smaller independent agencies. The bill now awaits action in the Senate.
07.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of substantial increases in funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy in Fiscal Year 2010. The legislation was approved today in the House of Representatives by a vote of 320-97. The legislation includes an increase of $54.03 million over current funding levels for new facilities and other infrastructure at INL bringing total infrastructure funding to $194.03 million. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. “Thanks to the hard work and dedication of those who work at INL, substantial new resources are headed Idaho’s way to improve facilities and expand the capabilities of some of the labs premier resources,” said Simpson. “This funding is the second installment of a multi-year commitment by the DOE and Congress to revitalize the INL’s infrastructure.” Among its many provisions, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill also includes: · A $76 million increase over the current fiscal year for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) bringing total funding to $245 million. The NGNP is designed to produce both electricity and heat for industrial applications. INL is the Department of Energy’s lead laboratory on research and development of the NGNP. · $10 million for INL’s Light Water Reactor Sustainability Program. The Program focuses on maintenance and life extension of our nation’s current fleet of nuclear reactors. · A combined total of $19.34 million is provided for INL’s collaboration with NASA on the supply of energy sources for deep space missions. · $1 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. · $475 million for cleanup activities at INL, which is level funding with the current fiscal year but a $69 million increase over President Obama’s requested amount. “Funding in this bill will expand reactor development, continue fuel cycle research, and push the development of the Center for Advanced Energy Studies,” said Simpson. “The new funding in this bill can only be seen as a complete endorsement by Congress of the leadership role INL is playing in our nation’s nuclear renaissance.” The Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill now awaits action in the Senate.
07.16.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson assumed the role of Ranking Member today during a House Budget Committee hearing on Yucca Mountain and the long-term storage of spent nuclear fuel and high-level nuclear waste. In his role as Ranking Member, Simpson led Republican questioning of witnesses during the hearing. In his opening statement, Simpson expressed dismay with the Obama Administration’s quick decision to abandon Yucca Mountain after decades of work and billions of dollars spent on the project. “We have spent nearly $10 billion studying Yucca Mountain as a permanent site for nuclear waste storage. This is easily the most comprehensive – and expensive – environmental study ever undertaken by this country or any other,” said Simpson. “There are over 1.5 million documents of evidence that have been prepared in analyzing Yucca Mountain. Yet after only six weeks in office, the Obama Administration somehow came to the judgment that Yucca Mountain is not a workable option for the storage of nuclear waste.” Simpson continued, “The Administration’s only alternative solution? We need more studies.” In questioning the wisdom of the Administration’s current plans, Simpson outlined the significant taxpayer liability resulting from the Department of Energy’s failure to remove nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel from sites across the country to a permanent geologic repository. The courts have already awarded nearly $1 billion in damages to utility companies that have been forced to pay fees to the government for nuclear waste disposal. DOE currently estimates their total liability at $12.3 billion and every year that Yucca is delayed adds another $500 million to that liability. After the hearing, Simpson expressed his frustration with the Obama Administration’s approach to Yucca Mountain. “The simple truth is that our nation’s approach to the long-term storage of nuclear waste is being dictated by a campaign promise then candidate Obama made to Senator Reid,” said Simpson. “By choosing politics over science, this Administration is demonstrating that winning an election is more important than good policy and billions of taxpayer dollars. Regrettably, the Administration has not even considered, and cannot even estimate, the true costs that will be passed along to taxpayers as a result of this decision.” Simpson is a member of the House Budget Committee, which establishes broad guidelines for funding, and a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development which establishes specific funding amounts for all programs within the Department of Energy, including the Yucca Mountain Project.
07.10.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the inclusion of funding for two facilities at Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB) as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill, which was approved by the House. “I am proud that the Appropriations Committee included this critical funding for Mountain Home Air Force Base,” said Congressman Simpson. “Idaho is proud of the Base and its airmen and the work they do to keep our country safe. This funding will provide much needed upgrades to the base facilities and enable our airmen to do their job safely and effectively.” The funding is split among the following two projects: · $690,000 is slated to go to the Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex at MHAFB. The funding will be used for planning and design of a replacement facility for civil engineering functions at the base. Those functions are currently dispersed among 10 World War II and Korean War era facilities that are in various stages of disrepair. The existing buildings are a danger to those working in them and adversely affect all daily civil engineering operations. · $20 million is slated to go to the Logistics Readiness Center at MHAFB. Once fully funded, the new Logistics Readiness Center will provide command and control for all materials in-bound and out-bound, including freight processing, packing, crating, and provide bulk and bin storage. These functions are currently dispersed among several buildings because the existing Logistics Supply building is a condemned 53 year-old wooden structure beyond economical repair. Congressman Simpson also applauded the inclusion of funding for programs to assist our nation’s veterans and funding to support military facilities throughout the country and across the world. “Taking care of our veterans must be a priority. They make great sacrifices to protect our freedom, and I’m pleased that this bill provides the support that they deserve,” said Simpson. The bill now awaits consideration in the Senate.
07.10.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined Republicans in opposing passage of the FY2010 State and Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill. This legislation provides an unsustainable increase of $12 billion, which is 33% increase over last year’s funding levels. “I was disappointed to see that the Democrats chose to provide such huge increases during a time when we are facing 9.5% unemployment and massive government deficits at home,” said Simpson. “During a time when many families are struggling to pay their bills and put food on their own table, we should not expect the American taxpayer to foot the bill for expensive and unnecessary programs abroad.” The bill increases funding for programs at the State Department and Foreign Relations programs including: $7.684 billion for global health programs, which is $680 million above 2009; $8.2 billion, $1.2 billion above 2009, for diplomatic and consular programs; $2.5 billion in the Development Assistance account, which is $700 million above the fiscal year 2009 enacted level, for agricultural development, climate change, democracy, and education; $1 billion to support basic education, $300 million above the FY09 enacted level, $1 billion for food security and agricultural development assistance for foreign countries; $685 million for biodiversity, clean energy and climate change programs in developing countries; $450 million for the Peace Corps, which is $110 million above 2009 While this bill includes funding for many important programs, including programs to promote security abroad, to fight drug trafficking in Mexico, and to provide aid to strategic allies such as Israel, the bloated funding levels for many programs cannot be defended. Simpson supported amendments to reduce funding to last year’s levels for a variety of programs, but these amendments were defeated. “A 33% increase in foreign spending is not only excessive, it is unwarranted,” said Simpson. “Now is the time to focus on defending and improving the security of our own country and improving our economy at home.” The bill passed the House by a vote of 318-106. It now awaits consideration in the Senate.
06.26.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today led Republican opposition to legislation funding the Department of Interior and the Environmental Protection Agency as the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. Today’s floor debate was Simpson’s first as Ranking Member of the Subcommittee. The bill passed by a vote of 254-173. “I’ll be the first to admit that my decision to vote NO was not reached easily,” said Simpson. “There are a number of aspects to this bill that I strongly support, and I recognize the need to provide adequate funding for our nation’s public lands and water infrastructure. However, given its excessive overall spending level and large increases in programs without ensuring that there are clearly defined goals or sufficient processes in place to measure the return on our investment, I simply could not vote for it.” While the bill includes several provisions supported by Simpson and most House Republicans, the legislation, which increases funding within the Subcommittee’s jurisdiction by $4.7 billion—or 17 percent—over last year’s level, simply contains too much unsustainable spending at a time our nation is facing a record deficit. “In particular, I question the need for a $10.6 billion budget for the EPA—a 38 percent increase over last year,” Simpson said. “Taken together with the EPA funding in the stimulus package and the FY2009 funding bill enacted in February, the EPA will receive over $25 BILLION in this calendar year alone. I have strong reservations about the wisdom of giving any agency this much money in such a short timeframe.” The bill increases funding for land management agencies within the Department of Interior and the U.S. Forest Service, including: · A 6% increase for the United States Forest Service over 2009 levels; · An 8% increase for the Bureau of Land Management over 2009 levels; · An 8% increase for the National Park Service over 2009 levels. “While I remain concerned about the overall spending levels in the bill, I am pleased that the bill provides needed funding for wildfire suppression and hazardous fuels reduction,” said Simpson. “The cost of fighting catastrophic fires is now eating up half of the Forest Service’s budget, and I believe that this bill takes the first step to addressing this problem. In addition, the legislation includes $420 million for climate change programs, including $17 million for an expansion of the “Greenhouse Gas Registry.” This expansion will place costly new mandates and burdensome regulations on small businesses.
06.26.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted against the efforts of Congressional Democrats to pass a cap-and-trade bill that promises large tax increases, higher energy costs, decreased jobs, and no real improvement in climate conditions over the next 100 years. Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, is concerned Congress is moving too fast without understanding the real consequences of the legislation. Further, Simpson agrees with the American Farm Bureau that the legislation will have a tremendous negative impact on agriculture and rural America. “I don’t believe there is any hyperbole in saying this is the most consequential issue Congress will consider this year, and the Democrats are allowing one amendment and three hours of debate on a bill that we saw this week for the first time. That is just plain wrong,” said Simpson. “The Democrat leadership has rushed this enormous bill to the floor without any real idea of what impact it will have on our economy, competitiveness, and way of life. This is a classic example of Congress rushing to fix a problem it doesn’t fully understand and implement a solution it hasn’t fully considered. In the end, this legislation represents the largest tax increase in American history and a devastating blow to the competitiveness of American agriculture and manufacturing.” H.R. 2454, the so-called American Clean Energy and Security Act, contains provisions that would amend the Clean Air Act to establish a cap-and-trade system designed to reduce U.S. greenhouse gas emissions 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. Among its many provisions, the bill would: · Establish an absolute cap on emissions and allow trading of emissions permits; · Establish a Renewable Energy Standard (RES) requiring utilities to obtain 20 percent of their energy through renewable sources or energy efficiency by 2020, but nuclear energy and hydropower do NOT count toward the RES; · Provide up to $4,500 per vehicle in a new “cash for clunkers” trade-in program for used automobiles; · Rely on the untested and unproven technology of carbon capture and sequestration to meet its ambitious goals; Among Simpson’s biggest objections to the bill is the fact that it does not include nuclear energy or hydropower as clean energy sources. In fact, Democrats refused to allow consideration of several amendments that would have allowed nuclear energy to be used under the RES. “The mere fact that Democrats would not even allow a vote on nuclear energy proves this bill is not really about combating climate change, it is about establishing an energy economy that punishes activities and industries they don’t like,” said Simpson. “Instead of creating a host of government mandates and forcing consumers to foot the bill for this legislation, I support using technology, incentives, and innovation to move our economy to a sustainable, independent energy future. I believe that to do so we must look at all domestic options, including renewable energy, nuclear energy, hydropower, and technologies to more cleanly utilize our abundant fossil fuel reserves,” said Simpson.
06.25.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of substantial increases in funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy in Fiscal Year 2010. The legislation was approved this morning by the Subcommittee. “Thanks to the hard work and dedication of those who work at INL, substantial new resources are headed Idaho’s way to improve facilities, expand reactor development, continue fuel cycle research, and push the development of the Center for Advanced Energy Studies,” said Simpson. “The new funding in this bill can only be seen as a complete endorsement by Congress of the leadership role INL is playing in our nation’s nuclear renaissance. I am grateful to my colleagues on the Subcommittee, Democrat and Republican alike, for demonstrating such strong support for nuclear energy and the work being done here in Idaho.” Among its many provisions, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes: · A $54.03 million increase over the current fiscal year for Idaho National Laboratory facilities. Total Idaho Facilities Management funding is targeted at $194.03 million. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. · A $76 million increase over the current fiscal year for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) bringing total funding to $245 million. The NGNP is designed to produce both electricity and heat for industrial applications. INL is the Department of Energy’s lead laboratory on research and development of the NGNP. · $10 million for INL’s Light Water Reactor Sustainability Program. The Program focuses on maintenance and life extension of our nation’s current fleet of nuclear reactors. · A combined total of $19.34 million is provided for INL’s collaboration with NASA on the supply of energy sources for deep space missions. · $1 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. · $475 million for cleanup activities at INL, which is level funding with the current fiscal year but a $69 million increase over President Obama’s requested amount. The Energy and Water Development bill is expected to be considered in full committee in two weeks and by the full House sometime in July.
06.23.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that he has secured over $20 million for two facilities at Mountain Home Air Force Base (MHAFB) as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill. The legislation is expected to be approved by the House Appropriations Committee later this afternoon. “Idaho and its people take great pride in Mountain Home Air Force Base and the capabilities it provides to our nation’s defense,” said Congressman Simpson. “This funding will help improve the operations of the base, provide better facilities for its servicemen and women, and ensure the Base remains a vibrant part of our nation’s defense. I am proud to have helped secure these funds and grateful to my colleagues on the House Appropriations Committee for approving them.” The funding is split among the following two projects: · $690,000 is slated to go to the Civil Engineer Maintenance Complex at MHAFB. The funding will be used for planning and design of a replacement facility for civil engineering functions at the base. Those functions are currently dispersed among 10 World War II and Korean War era facilities that are in various stages of disrepair. The existing buildings are a danger to those working in them and adversely affect all daily civil engineering operations. · $20 million is slated to go to the Logistics Readiness Center at MHAFB. Once fully funded, the new Logistics Readiness Center will provide command and control for all materials in-bound and out-bound, including freight processing, packing, crating, and provide bulk and bin storage. These functions are currently dispersed among several buildings because the existing Logistics Supply building is a condemned 53 year-old wooden structure beyond economical repair. “Mountain Home Air Force Base is not only critical to our nation’s defense, but to the economy of our great State. For that reason, I am intent on supporting the Base as much as I can as a member of the House Appropriations Committee,” said Simpson. The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill also contains funding for military facilities across the world and a variety of programs assisting our nation’s veterans. A summary of the entire bill is available upon request. The bill now heads to the House floor where approval is expected in the next few weeks.
06.18.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that the House of Representatives has given its approval to providing $1 million for the Idaho Meth Project. The funding passed through the House today as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill. “The sad reality is that meth continues to rob too many Idahoans of their money, their futures, and their lives,” said Simpson. “I am hoping this infusion of federal funding will help the Idaho Meth Project impact the lives of more Idahoans in a positive way and turn them away from the life-sapping scourge of methamphetamine.” The goal of the Idaho Meth Project is to significantly reduce the prevalence of first-time methamphetamine use in Idaho. To achieve this goal, the Project has established a program that is in three areas: 1) Public Service Messaging; 2) Public Policy; and 3) Community Action. According to the Idaho Meth Project: · Idaho spends between $60 million and $102 million each year to incarcerate and treat offenders who admit having a meth problem. This represents between 32 and 55 percent of the annual budget of the Idaho Department of Corrections; · 52 percent of Idaho inmates directly attribute meth use to their incarceration; · 89 percent of female offenders in county jails admit they have a problem with meth; · Idaho ranks 4th in the nation in meth use by 12-17 year olds and 18-25 year olds; · Idaho ranks 7th in the nation for lifetime use of meth by high school students. “These statistics are a shocking and sobering reminder for all of us that meth use is robbing our young people of their lives and taxpayers of their money,” said Simpson. “That is why I consider this federal funding a wise investment and believe the Idaho Meth Project’s programs are so important to our State’s future.” The Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill also contains funding for projects for the Idaho State Police, the Idaho Department of Corrections, and Idaho State University. A complete list of Idaho projects is available upon request. The bill now awaits Senate action.
06.18.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured funding for the Old Idaho State Penitentiary as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. Simpson is the Ranking Republican member on the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the National Park Service. The bill includes a $150,000 grant through the National Park Service’s Save America’s Treasures program for critical stabilization work at the Historic Old Idaho State Penitentiary, located outside of Boise. First used to incarcerate prisoners in 1872, the Old Idaho Penitentiary is one of only four territorial prisons still standing in the United States. The structure became the state prison in 1890 with Idaho’s statehood and continued to operate for nearly 100 years. “The Old Idaho State Penitentiary is one of the West’s most significant prison sites and one of the most visited historic facilities in Idaho,” Simpson said. “By stabilizing the site and repairing the historic structures, we can ensure that Idaho retains this key piece of its history.” “The Idaho State Historical Society is charged with preserving the state’s cultural heritage,” noted the Society’s Executive Director Janet Gallimore. “One of the ways we do that is through the preservation of more than 60 historic structures in Pierce, Franklin, Hansen, and Boise. All of the Society’s sites are significant, but none more so than the Old Penitentiary, which truly is an American Treasure. This appropriation, matched by state funds, will continue a federal-local partnership at the site that dates back to the time of construction as a territorial prison. We greatly appreciate the support of Congressman Simpson in joining us in recognizing the importance of this site and the need for its preservation.” The Save America’s Treasures program provides one-time grants to preserve the nation’s historic legacy. Eligible sites must be on the National Register of Historic Places, and grants require a 50% match. “Our nation’s history is worth preserving, and I am glad that we have the opportunity to ensure that the next generation of Americans can visit the places where significant moments in history took place,” said Simpson. The bill also includes funding for the following Idaho projects: $500,000 to implement the Idaho Sage-Grouse Management Plan; $1,200,000 for trail construction and maintenance in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area; $400,000 to acquire property for a bike trail in the SNRA; and $500,000 for a new wastewater treatment facility in the City of Buhl. The Interior and Environment Appropriations bill is now headed to the full House of Representatives for consideration where approval is expected in the next few weeks.
06.18.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured funding to help and Idaho community meet Clean Water Act standards and for efforts to recover sage-grouse as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. Simpson is the Ranking Republican member on the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which oversees funding for the Department of Interior, the Forest Service, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The bill includes $500,000 for the City of Buhl Wastewater Systems Improvement. The EPA and Idaho DEQ have mandated that the city build a new wastewater treatment center, and the funding would enable the city to meet Clean Water Act requirements, improving water quality for the citizens of Buhl. “Cities like Buhl are struggling to meet federal water standards, and I believe the federal government has a responsibility to assist small communities,” Simpson said. “Earlier this year, I was able to meet with community leaders and residents in Buhl to discuss the huge burden they face in providing clean water for their citizens. I am pleased the funding included in this bill will help them meet their needs.” The legislation also includes $500,000 for the Idaho Sage-Grouse Management Plan. The Department of Fish and Wildlife is expected to make a decision on whether to list the sage-grouse as an endangered species later this year. Idaho is taking proactive steps to recover this species before a listing is required. Funding will be used to continue implementing a management plan to help state and federal agencies partner with landowners to protect sage-grouse habitat. “Voluntary partnerships encourage Idahoans to be wise stewards of our nation’s wildlife without threatening their livelihood and way of life,” Simpson said. “Efforts to recover threatened species have been much more successful when landowners participate willingly. The purpose of recognizing a species as threatened is to recover it, not to use the law to push users off the land, and I believe the Idaho Sage-Grouse Management Plan helps us find a win for both sage-grouse and those who earn their livelihoods from the land.” The bill also includes funding for wildfire management, including $357 million for the President’s new contingency fund, which could be tapped into by land management agencies if suppression costs exceed the budget for the year. The Forest Service is currently forced to rob its other budgets to meet suppression needs during a severe fire season. The bill also includes funding for the following Idaho projects: $1,200,000 for trail construction and maintenance in the Sawtooth National Recreation Area; $400,000 to acquire property for a bike trail in the SNRA; $150,000 for state stabilization of the Old Idaho State Penitentiary. The Interior and Environment Appropriations bill is now headed to the full House of Representatives for consideration where approval is expected in the next few weeks.
06.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is urging Energy Secretary Steven Chu to support additional funding for Yucca Mountain as our nation’s long-term repository for spent nuclear fuel and high-level nuclear waste. Simpson and a number of his Congressional colleagues wrote to the Energy Secretary today highlighting the complex problems associated with abandoning the Yucca Mountain project. “We are writing to express our strong support for the continuation of the Department of Energy’s (DOE) Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository program and its related Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) licensing review,” wrote Simpson and his colleagues. The letter stressed the fact that the Department of Energy has no alternative plan for these materials and the significant costs associated with switching directions now. “Currently, there is no “Plan B” for the disposition of DOE’s inventory of spent fuel and high-level waste accumulating at DOE EM cleanup sites. The proposed Blue Ribbon Commission to study options to Yucca Mountain is unlikely to find a “a silver bullet solution”, since we already have over 50 studies by prestigious institutions, like the National Academy of Sciences, and Yucca still remains a suitable repository site. Any attempt to find a new repository site would likely take an additional 20 years and upwards of $15 billion to develop,” wrote Simpson. The letter also specifically referenced the requirements of the Batt Agreement and the complications of missing milestones under it and other state agreements. Among the impacts of abandoning Yucca, the letter outlined the following: · Delay the timely removal and final disposition, as well as increase costs, of defense spent fuel and high-level waste from DOE cleanup programs, including Hanford, Idaho, Oak Ridge, and Savannah River. Such delays are almost certain to cause DOE to be in non-compliance with its commitments under Tri-Party Agreements and consent orders with the states in which this DOE defense waste is located; and · Disrupt the U.S. Navy spent nuclear fuel defueling and storage plans, and impact planned shipments of Navy fuel from Idaho to Yucca Mountain in accordance with the Idaho Batt agreement. “In order to avoid further delays and to provide the expeditious removal of DOE defense waste compliant with court-stipulated agreements, we strongly support additional funding of the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository. The Yucca Mountain repository is an important national asset that is needed for disposal of the defense waste generated as part of our nuclear weapons program,” concluded Simpson and his colleagues. A copy of the letter and complete list of co-signers is available upon request.
06.17.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured funding for a number of agriculture-related research initiatives in the State of Idaho, including several projects at the University of Idaho. The funding is included within the Fiscal Year 2010 Agriculture Appropriations bill, which will be considered by the House Appropriations Committee tomorrow. Among its many provisions, the bill includes $8.3 million in funding for efforts to eradicate a Potato Cyst Nematode (PCN) outbreak in Idaho’s signature commodity and $349,000 for research at the University of Idaho into preventing the diseases re-occurrence. PCN is a plant pest that can seriously affect potato yields. “Since it was found back in 2006, Potato Cyst Nematode has posed an unwelcome threat to one of Idaho’s most visible commodities and to the economic livelihood of farmers and communities,” said Simpson. “For that reason, I continue to support the crucial funding included in this bill because it will help eradicate the disease and find ways to ensure it never reappears.” The bill also includes funding for a variety of research programs important to commodities in the Pacific Northwest and funding for critical wildlife and animal management programs in Idaho and elsewhere. Among its provisions are the following provisions important to Idaho: · Aquaculture Research in Idaho and Washington - $529,000 · Barley for Rural Development in Idaho and Montana -- $514,000 · Cool Season Legume Research in ID, ND, WA -- $235,000 · Increasing Shelf Life of Agricultural Commodities -- $603,000 · Potato Research in ID, OR, WA -- $1.037 million · Small Fruit Research in ID, OR, WA -- $307,000 · STEEP IV – Water Quality in Northwest -- $444,000 · Greater Yellowstone Interagency Brucellosis Committee, MT, ID, WY -- $650,000 · Nez Perce Bio-Control Center -- $176,000 · Tri-State Predator Control Program in ID, MT, WY -- $926,000 “Agriculture research is not only central to the mission of Land Grant Colleges like the University of Idaho, it is critical to the economic vitality of our region’s primary commodities and the jobs those commodities support,” said Simpson. “While federal funding is severely limited and taxpayer resources should be spent with great care, each of these programs has a long history of success and importance to Idaho’s agriculture sector. I am proud to say that each of these programs has a great track record and is worthy of the funding it will receive as a result of this bill.” After tomorrow’s Committee consideration of the bill, it will head to the floor of the House of Representatives where approval is expected in the next few weeks.
06.16.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted against the efforts of Congressional Democrats to include extraneous and controversial provisions in a bill to fund our nation’s troops. H.R. 2346, the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009, originally passed the House by a strong bi-partisan majority when it was limited to troop and military funding but emerged from a Conference Committee with new and unrelated provisions opposed by most Republican lawmakers. Despite near-unanimous Republican opposition, the measure passed by a vote of 226-202. “As evidenced by my vote in support of the original bill, I was prepared to vote for a supplemental appropriations bill that supported our troops and stuck to those things that truly merited emergency funding,” said Simpson. “Once again, however, the Democrats have done a masterful job of taking bi-partisan, consensus legislation and making it controversial. I simply cannot support a bill that now includes billions in controversial and unrelated funding, and undermines our national security by watering down Senate language that kept terrorists off our shores.” The Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2009 originally passed the House on May 14th by a vote of 368-60. The bill contained emergency funding in several categories but was primarily targeted at funding Defense, Homeland Security, and Military Construction accounts. After emerging from House-Senate negotiations, the bill was altered in the following ways: · The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is now approved for an additional $108 BILLION in U.S. taxpayer-funded loans. American taxpayers will borrow this money from foreign nations like China and loan it to foreign nations, including possibly Iran, to bailout their economies. · A bi-partisan Senate provision prohibiting the release of terrorist detainee photos was removed from the final bill based on assurances that President Obama would not allow their release. Release of these photos will further inflame tensions in the Middle East and put U.S. troops in the region at greater risk. · A bi-partisan Senate provision prohibiting the transfer or release of GITMO detainees to, or within, the United States was removed from the final bill in place of language that prohibits a transfer prior to October 1, 2009. With certain certifications by President Obama, this bill would allow GITMO detainees to be brought to the U.S. for incarceration and to stand trial after October 1. · The “cash for clunkers” program is set to receive $1 BILLION in the bill. Legislation authorizing the program has not even been considered in the Senate. “In financially painful times like these, the American people expect their leaders to watch the bottom line, not borrow money and give it away,” said Simpson. “I expect a troop funding bill to focus on our troops, not used cars and President Obama’s international popularity.”
06.14.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has filed an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2010 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill that would block the Environmental Protection Agency from implementing any attempt to expand the federal government’s jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act. Simpson is the Ranking Republican on the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. Simpson filed the amendment in response to passage of legislation in the United States Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee that would dramatically expand federal jurisdiction over agricultural uses of water. S. 787, the so-called Clean Water Restoration Act, would remove the word “navigable” from the Clean Water Act’s definition of waters covered by the Act’s provisions. In short, this would make virtually any water body in the United States potentially subject to EPA permitting and enforcement authorities, including water tanks, irrigation canals, ponds, drainage ditches, and even mud holes. Non-navigable waters are currently regulated by the states. “S. 787 is a classic example of legislation that sounds good to the average citizen but has devastating impacts on our economy, food supply, Constitution, and way of life,” said Simpson. “There is simply no reason why the federal government needs to be out micro-managing our nation’s farms and ranches and stealing regulatory jurisdiction from the states. S. 787 is a big government land grab, pure and simple, and it is being forced on the agriculture community by people who don’t know the first thing about crops or cows.” The amendment was filed with the House Rules Committee. The Committee determines which amendments will be in order during floor consideration of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill. The Rules Committee, under the control of the Democrat Leadership, has refused consideration of many Republican amendments this year and will either reject or approve floor consideration of Simpson’s amendment later this evening. Idaho Senator Mike Crapo last week voted against passage of S. 787 in the Environment and Public Works Committee and has placed a hold on Senate consideration of the bill.
06.12.2009	"In a small one-room school house in Waubeka, Wisconsin, in 1885, 19 year old grade school teacher Bernard J. Cigrand rested a small, 38-star American Flag in an inkwell on his desk and asked his students to write an essay on what the flag meant to them. This became the first formal observance of Flag Day, and from that day forward Mr. Cigrand dedicated much of his life to establishing Flag Day as an official holiday. In 1916, his goals were realized when President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed that June 14th would be officially established as Flag Day, and in 1949, Congress declared a National Flag Day to take place on June 14th every year. “This Sunday we will once again celebrate Flag Day. Although there are parades and concerts taking place across the country, most Americans will not celebrate with grand events or observances; we will not gather with distant relatives or purchase gifts for our young children. It is in the simple act of hanging and displaying an American Flag that we celebrate. “This year we should be especially grateful to our men and women of the armed forces serving abroad, and those that have returned from war zones. The flags hanging outside our homes are the same flags that adorn the uniforms of our soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan who fight every day to protect the principles the flag represents. It preserves the memory of every American who has died defending his or her country in service to it. In the 232 years that the flag has been the symbol of our country, it has led our troops into battle in the creation and defense of our country, it has raced across Europe in defense of others in the fight against fascism and tyranny, and it has been planted on the surface of the moon as a symbol of our technological ambitions. “As I drive down the street and see house after house, each with a flag out front, it is a powerful reminder that despite any differences we might have or any difficulties we may endure as a nation, each American is grateful to live in a country that gives them the opportunity to pursue their ambitions, express their opinions freely and lead the life they want to live. “This Sunday, just as Bernard J. Cigrand asked his students to do 124 years ago, I hope we take a moment to remember what the flag represents to each of us, and be thankful for it.”
06.12.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, has secured $3 million in funding for an Idaho National Laboratory (INL) project aimed at preventing and catching cyber attacks on our nation’s critical infrastructure. The funding is included as part of the Fiscal Year 2010 Homeland Security Appropriations bill which was approved by the House Appropriations Committee earlier today. Officially termed Cyber Attacks on Control Systems Vulnerability Analysis, Testing, and Mitigation, the cyber attacks research funding will be used to develop an enhanced, fully operational capability at INL to conduct analysis of cyber attacks, vulnerability discovery, mitigation engineering and operational training for the Department of Homeland Security’s National Cyber Security Division. INL is a Center of Excellence for Critical Infrastructure Protection, and has an established, internationally recognized control systems cyber security program that works every day to protect our nation and its critical infrastructure from cyber attacks. “INL is a world leader in the arena of cyber security and has demonstrated time and again that its researchers are on the cutting edge of this ever evolving national security issue,” said Simpson. “We are in the middle of a multi-year effort to enhance INL’s capabilities in this area and I am confident these funds will pay enormous dividends for our nation and its taxpayers. I commend the INL, its management, and its workforce for their accomplishments and for the leadership they have shown in helping protect our nation against one of its fastest growing and most dangerous threats.” Commenting on the importance of this funding, INL Associate Lab Director for National and Homeland Security, Dr. KP Ananth said, "I want to thank Congressman Simpson and the House Appropriations Committee for their continued confidence in the work we are doing at INL. The additional funds requested by Congressman Simpson will help INL researchers enhance our capability to support the Department of Homeland Security to realistically test cyber attacks on control systems and assess the impacts of the attacks on our nation's critical infrastructure assets." The homeland security mission of the INL is to develop, test and deploy technologies to protect the nation’s critical infrastructure. The Idaho National Laboratory builds on more than five decades of expertise. INL successfully serves as a test range for numerous governmental activities with an emphasis on nuclear and military development and testing. The site’s remote location, sophisticated infrastructures and science and engineering base make the site the preeminent critical infrastructure test bed that supports the security mission of the Department of Defense (DoD), the Department of Energy (DOE), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the nation. The Homeland Security Appropriations bill is now headed to the House floor for consideration where approval is expected later this month.
06.09.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that he has secured an additional $1 million for the Idaho Meth Project in the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill. “My wife Kathy and I have been so impressed by the Idaho Meth Project and the positive results it is achieving across the state,” said Simpson. “The Governor, First Lady, and their staff deserve a tremendous amount of credit for establishing this program in Idaho and making it a top priority. The sad reality is that meth continues to rob too many Idahoans of their money, their futures, and their lives. I am hoping this infusion of federal funding will help the Idaho Meth Project impact the lives of more Idahoans in a positive way and turn them away from the life-sapping scourge of methamphetamine.” “Nearly a year and a half ago, the Governor and I launched the Idaho Meth Project to educate the next generation of Idahoans about the dangers of methamphetamine abuse. In less than 18 months it has positively impacted many lives. Attitudes are changing,” said Idaho First Lady Lori Otter. “Young people are discouraging their friends from using meth and hundreds of volunteers from around the state are helping spread the ‘Not Even Once’ message. We are so appreciative that Congressman Simpson has secured critical funding that will help sustain this important project in our state.” The goal of the Idaho Meth Project is to significantly reduce the prevalence of first-time methamphetamine use in Idaho. To achieve this goal, the Project has established a program that is in three areas: 1) Public Service Messaging; 2) Public Policy; and 3) Community Action. According to the Idaho Meth Project: · Idaho spends between $60 million and $102 million each year to incarcerate and treat offenders who admit having a meth problem. This represents between 32 and 55 percent of the annual budget of the Idaho Department of Corrections. · 52 percent of Idaho inmates directly attribute meth use to their incarceration. · 89 percent of female offenders in county jails admit they have a problem with meth. · Idaho ranks 4th in the nation in meth use by 12-17 year olds and 18-25 year olds. · Idaho ranks 7th in the nation for lifetime use of meth by high school students. “These statistics are a shocking, and sobering reminder for all of us that meth use is robbing our young people of their lives, and taxpayers of their money,” said Simpson. “That is why I consider this federal funding a wise investment and believe the Idaho Meth Project’s programs are so important to our State’s future.” The Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill also contains funding for projects at the Idaho State Police, the Idaho Department of Corrections, and Idaho State University. A complete list of Idaho projects is available upon request. The bill now heads to the House floor where approval is expected next week.
06.03.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today challenged Energy Secretary Steven Chu to be specific about the Obama Administrations alternatives to Yucca Mountain. Simpson also asked the Secretary to aggressively support the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and other nuclear energy research initiatives. In his questioning, Simpson asked the Secretary to outline the Administration’s alternatives to Yucca Mountain and the scope of the Blue Ribbon Panel assigned to study the issue and make recommendations. “I was both pleased and disappointed by what the Secretary had to say about alternatives to Yucca Mountain,” said Simpson after the hearing. “I was pleased to hear Secretary Chu’s support for closing the fuel cycle and using technology to reduce the amount of materials requiring permanent disposal. I was disappointed, however, to learn that Yucca Mountain will be excluded from consideration as a permanent repository despite his acknowledgement that a permanent repository will be needed. For taxpayers, that means the billions of dollars and decades of work invested at Yucca will be wasted and the politically difficult search for another site will begin.” Simpson also challenged Secretary Chu to maintain focus on deployment of new nuclear technologies even as he supports the research and scientific discovery mission of the Department of Energy. “All of the research in the world means very little if we aren’t actually building new technologies that can be deployed in our cities,” said Simpson after the hearing. “I asked Secretary Chu not to lose focus of the need to bring new technologies, like the Next Generation Nuclear Plant, to the market. Taxpayers have wisely invested tremendous amounts of money in research and, at some point, they need to see the tangible benefits of that investment in their daily lives. I want to see a stronger emphasis on deploying new nuclear technologies sooner rather than later.” The Idaho National Laboratory (INL) is the lead research laboratory on the NGNP and is managing its development. The House Energy and Water Development Subcommittee is expected to begin consideration of its fiscal year 2010 bill later this month.
06.03.2009	"These days we are all frustrated with the economy and, quite frankly, by the government’s response to the crisis. American families are feeling hit on every side by the economic downturn. Many businesses are struggling, and families are trying to make ends meet in the face of possible unemployment. In challenging times like these, families and businesses carefully weigh their financial decisions and work to save money, often sacrificing things that they need or want to ensure that they have economic stability in the future. I expect the government to show the same constraint and responsible approach when making financial decisions to help address the challenges facing our economy. But instead of carefully weighing our economic policies and making prudent budgetary decisions, Democrats have responded to the crisis by trying to spend their way out of the recession. In doing so, they have launched the United States into the largest deficit we have ever seen. Since President Obama came into office in January, I have opposed over $4.5 trillion in new spending in an effort to stem the tide of government spending. One of the biggest challenges I face in responding to this crisis is finding ways to protect Idaho families from devastating losses without forcing taxpayers to pay the consequences of bad decisions made by corporate America. I have opposed a number of so-called “recovery” efforts—including the nationalization of the U.S. auto industry—because they have expanded the government’s role in making decisions for companies and the taxpayers’ responsibility for rescuing them when they fail. Allowing companies to fail can be difficult decisions for elected officials to make, but I have serious concerns about both the immediate cost to taxpayers and the long-term implications of assuming the risk of poorly-managed companies. Our free market principles have made the U.S. economy the strongest in the world, even in this time of crisis, and I am confident that our economy will recover more quickly and completely if we provide individuals, families, and businesses with the tools they need to succeed. That is why I have supported efforts to reduce taxes on American families and create good jobs through domestic energy production that will lead to energy independence. I have also supported efforts to keep families in their homes and lower costs for homeowners, as well efforts to provide a tax credit to homeowners who are paying their mortgages. And I am working to help families rebuild their savings by suspending contribution and catch-up limits on retirement accounts, extending tax credits for college savings, stabilizing worker pensions, and providing tax relief for investors and seniors. In addition, I recognize that we must take steps to ensure that the actions—or inactions—that led to the unprecedented challenges that have faced our financial system in recent months are not repeated. For example, I strongly believe that Congress and federal regulators must take responsibility for being asleep at the wheel while CEOs knowingly made bad decisions that put taxpayers in financial peril. I also think that Congress must carefully consider how to reform the way we regulate our financial service industry to ensure that there is transparency and accountability. And I believe that, especially in light of the government’s ongoing response to the financial crisis, we should shed some light on the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve, which is why I supported legislation to give Congress the authority to audit the monetary actions of the Fed. As we work to put our economy on the track to recovery, I value the input I have received from Idahoans. Knowing how the economy is impacting Idaho families allows me to make better decisions as legislation to address these issues comes before Congress, and I am committed to implementing fiscally responsible policies that encourage real, sustainable economic growth.
05.21.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a Co-Chair of the House Sugar Caucus, today wrote to Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack urging him to resist calls for increased sugar imports from Mexico and other nations. Simpson sent the letter with the other Sugar Caucus Co-Chair, Rep. Charlie Melancon (D-LA). In their letter, Simpson and Melancon expressed their concerns over the impact increased sugar imports could have on domestic producers. “Higher imports now could have the disastrous effect of depressing prices further, harming more sugar farmers – many of whom are already experiencing severe financial distress – and risking taxpayer costs for loan forfeitures,” wrote Simpson and Melancon. Simpson, Melancon and other supporters of sugar producers have consistently argued that the current sugar program, recently reauthorized in the Farm Bill, operates at no-cost to the taxpayers and helps keep rural America strong. “Despite the challenge of integrating the U.S. and Mexican sweetener markets, as prescribed in the NAFTA, the U.S. sugar market has consistently operated efficiently and the policy has operated at no-cost to taxpayers for years,” wrote the two Congressmen. Combined, U.S. beet and cane growers and processors in 19 states generate 146,000 American jobs and nearly $10 billion in annual economic activity across the nation. “It is vitally important that we do all we can to promote and protect U.S. agriculture, especially during these tough economic times,” said Simpson after sending the letter. “Sugar producers are an integral part of Idaho’s economy and I am intent on making sure they are treated fairly in all of our trade policies and negotiations.”
05.21.2009	"Legislation coming through Congress this week provides a great example of a way that the federal government can do good work to really stimulate the economy without raising taxes and spending hundreds of billions of dollars. Sure, there were provisions in the Democrat’s stimulus bill that provided support for small businesses, but many of the dollars used to provide that support came largely from taxes raised on folks above a certain income level, including many small business owners. “This irony would almost be funny if it weren’t true. The way to help small business is not to “spread the wealth around.” The way to help small business is to promote innovation, reduce onerous taxes, and provide a platform for which this country’s entrepreneurial spirit can flourish. “This week is National Small Business Week, and there are several pieces of legislation coming though Congress that will do just that. “H.R. 2352 is the Job Creation through Entrepreneurship Act of 2009. This bill incorporates several smaller bills that modify and reauthorize programs that will support small business owners. Among other things, H.R. 2352 will reauthorize the Small Businesses Administration’s (SBA) entrepreneurial development programs, create a new small business assistance program for veterans, and includes legislation I cosponsored to increase support for Small Business Development Center (SBDC) programs. This bill has received wide bipartisan support in the House, and I was happy to support its passage. “I have also cosponsored three other bills that will reduce the tax burden on small businesses. H.R. 1552, the Small Business Formation and Job Creation Act, raises the new business start-up tax deduction from $5,000 to $20,000, eliminating a major barrier that prevents new businesses from launching in the first place. I’ve signed on to H.R. 1509, the Home Office Deduction Simplification Act, which provides a standard deduction of $1,500 for home office expenses. I also recently cosponsored H.R. 1836, the Payroll Tax Holiday Act of 2009, a bill introduced by Congressman Minnick. This bill eliminates employment and self-employment taxes until January 1, 2010, for small business owners who employ 50 or fewer employees. “Over the last several months you’ve probably heard small businesses referred to as the “backbone” of our economy. In fact, I’ve probably said that a few times myself. Small business represents more than half of our private sector employment and creates almost four out of every five new jobs in this country. So let’s get it straight… small businesses are not the backbone of our economy, they are our economy. Idaho’s small businesses are not only the core job creators in our state, but more than anything else they promote a local culture and identity that defines many of our communities. The local ice cream shop or sporting goods store, the near-by small parts manufacturer or the favorite burger joint not only provide jobs, but they enrich our unique communities, each in their own way. “While we certainly should use this week to appreciate the importance of small businesses, I hope that Congress will continue to prioritize small business beyond this week alone. That said, this is not the time to grow government and generate unsustainable funding levels for programs that do not stimulate the economy. I will work non-stop to push back government interference on businesses, allowing them to make decisions that are good for their companies, good for economic growth and good for the livelihoods of individual citizens and families. Idaho’s entrepreneurs and businesses can compete with the best in the world, and my goal is simply to keep government from getting in the way of their success.”
05.19.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is urging President Barack Obama and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to put an end to the ongoing government-sponsored destruction of privately-owned automobile dealerships in Idaho and across the country. In letters to President Obama and Secretary Geithner, Simpson expressed his concern with the actions of automobile manufacturers and the Department of Treasury’s Automotive Task Force in ordering closures. “I am deeply troubled by talk of dealer network restructuring. Automobile dealers in my home state of Idaho, and across the country, operate at NO COST to the automobile manufacturers. Rather, the vast dealer networks that are set up across America, in communities both large and small, are integral to any attempt to return manufacturers to profitability in the future,” wrote Simpson. Simpson also criticized the arbitrary nature of the closures and stressed the market should determine which dealerships have to close their doors. “Sadly, the contraction of automobile dealers in Idaho, and across the country, has already begun. In Idaho alone, fully eight percent of franchised auto dealers have closed since January 2007 and more are certainly going to fail over the next year. Rather than accelerate this cycle through artificial and arbitrary means, the federal government ought to let the marketplace determine which dealerships close and which remain in business,” wrote Simpson. In closing, Simpson asked the President and Secretary Geithner to stop the action of the auto manufacturers. “I sincerely hope that you will see the lack of wisdom in forcibly taking away the dealership rights of people who have done nothing to merit such a drastic action and act to stop the automobile manufacturers from unilaterally restructuring their dealer networks,” wrote Simpson. Simpson also cosigned two additional letters with several of his Congressional colleagues opposing attempts to unilaterally restructure dealer networks. Copies of Simpson’s letters are available upon request.
05.15.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in introducing legislation (H.R. 2345) that would exclude small health care practices – those with 20 or fewer employees – from the Red Flags rule. The Red Flag Rule is part of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act of 2003 (FACT Act) and would require health care professions to follow similar regulations as financial institutions and creditors because their billing cycle can take several months to complete. “It is obvious that physicians and dentists are not creditors, and they should not be forced to spend hundreds of dollars to comply with this needless regulation. They don’t require full payment at the time of service because they first bill the insurance company, then they bill the patient the remainder of the bill. This system should not be treated the same as a loan with a financial institution,” said Simpson. “Health care is expensive enough; we don’t need to create needless rules to increase costs even more.” The American Dental Association received a letter from the FTC stating, “if, in fact, a dentist does not bill clients . . . or does not defer payment for services, then credit is not being extended and therefore the Red Flags Rule will not apply.” This interpretation actually discourages practitioners to develop flexible payment plans for patients who can’t afford full payment at the time of service. “We talk about affordable healthcare for the American public, yet this interpretation of the law would actually end up increasing the costs for all patients,” said Simpson. “Increasing the amount of bureaucracy and needless government regulation is not the right direction for our country, not now, not ever.” If passed into law, H.R. 2345 would exempt exclude small health care practices from the Red Flags rule.
05.14.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues in sending a letters to Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Robert M. Mueller, III and to Attorney General Holder to encourage both to implement the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 thoughtfully and forcefully. The legislation reauthorized existing anti-trafficking programs, widened assistance programs for U.S. citizens, provided additional protections for trafficking survivors, and protected unaccompanied alien children from being repatriated into the hands of traffickers or abusers. Idaho Congressman Simpson supported the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 during the 110th Congress. “Many Americans think that human trafficking is a chapter in the past. But each day individuals are forced into slavery, even though it is illegal throughout the world, and young women and even children are sold into prostitution and horrific situations of abuse and neglect,” said Simpson. “When we realize this is happening, we can’t help but take action to stop it and to ensure that these victims are rescued, their abusers are prosecuted for their crimes, and that domestic and international laws combat modern slavery in America and abroad.” One important provision of the law makes it clear that the statute applies to those who are willfully blind in the face of abusive commercial sexual activity. Unfortunately, it is often American tourists who engage in the activities that support human trafficking, and until we ensure that they are not given a free-pass, we will have a difficult time shutting down the industries that force children into prostitution. The letters were delivered today during a hearing in the House Committee on the Judiciary.
05.13.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined House Republicans in supporting H.R. 1903, the Responsible Homeowners Act. This bill will help keep families in their homes by lowering the costs for ALL homeowners, in contrast to recently-proposed legislation that only addresses the problems of a select few. “We know that we must fix the housing problem in order to address the issues facing the rest of our economy,” said Simpson. “This housing plan helps ALL homeowners and it does so without rewarding those who created the problem in the first place. Helping distressed homeowners should not come at the expense of the 90% of homeowners who are paying their mortgages on time.” Today many responsible homeowners are at risk of losing their home through no fault of their own, such as those who find themselves temporarily unemployed. In order to keep those families in their homes, H.R. 1903 will: · Provide a $5,000 refinancing tax credit to help families cover the costs of a mortgage refinancing, buy down points, or reduce their principal balance (covers refinancings through July 1, 2010). · Encourages lenders to invest in keeping homeowners in their homes by providing tax incentives when they refinancing mortgages and lowering monthly payments in exchange for a shared portion of future home appreciation. (covers refinancings through July 1, 2010). · Enables mortgage services to modify mortgages to help homeowners by providing a “safe harbor” from lawsuits by investors for mortgage servicers who engage in specified loan modifications consistent with their statutory duties; and would require unsuccessful plaintiffs to pay all attorneys’ fees and any legal costs incurred by the defendant. Right now mortgage servicers who modify loans risk being sued by one of the many investors who own a portion of the mortgage. The key to stabilizing home prices is to get people buying homes again. That includes the young couple who is purchasing their first home, the growing family that needs to trade-in their first home for something bigger, and the empty-nesters who are looking to downsize. To spur home purchases across-the-board, H.R. 1903 would: · Enact a $15,000 home-buyers credit for all purchases of primary residences provided that the buyer puts 5% down (covers purchases made before July 1, 2010). · Encourage neighborhood investors to purchase homes to be rented out by equalizing the tax treatment of a home purchased as a primary residence with a home purchased for rental purposes. In areas with a high number of foreclosed homes we need individuals who are willing to invest in these homes and get them reoccupied. Unfortunately, current law only provides incentives for the purchase of owner-occupied homes. (covers purchases made before July 1, 2010).
05.08.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored legislation to give veterans improved access to America’s natural treasures. H.R. 1354, the Veterans Eagle Parks Pass Act, would provide veterans with annual National Parks and Federal Lands Recreational Passes at greatly discounted rates. “Our national parks, forests, wildlife refuges, and other public lands are among our nation’s greatest treasures,” said Simpson. “I believe that making sure that our veterans and their families can enjoy these majestic spaces is a fitting thank you to the men and women who have sacrificed to protect our great nation.” The America the Beautiful – National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass provides the public access to and use of federal recreation sites where an access fee is charged. The annual pass current costs $80. H.R. 1354 would provide a similar pass for veterans for $10, which is the discount seniors currently receive.
05.07.2009	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today voted to reform mortgage lending and protect Idaho consumers from predatory loan practices. The bill, HR 1748, passed the House of Representatives and now goes to the U.S. Senate. "Some of the key reasons for our nation’s economic crisis were the irresponsible choices made by some lenders and borrowers alike," Minnick said. "These reforms will bring much-needed accountability to the process. The bill will also better protect our financial system by making sure borrowers don’t buy more than they can afford and by making sure that all lenders follow the best practices shown by responsible lending institutions." "The mortgage crisis has been at the root of the financial turmoil and economic recession facing our nation," Simpson said, "And I strongly believe that addressing the high rate of foreclosures and plummeting value of homes is necessary for our economy to recover. I believe this bill is a balanced and appropriate response to ensure that homeowners can make financial decisions that are in the best interests of their families." The bill makes several important reforms to current federal loan standards for mortgages. Lenders would be required to better vet borrowers and their ability to pay. The bill also prohibits unfair lending practices, imposes penalties for irresponsible lending and protects tenants who rent homes that go into foreclosure. (See information below for more details.) The bill included a key amendment authored by Minnick. The amendment requires creditors to retain an economic interest of at least 5 percent for each loan that the creditor sells or transfers to another entity. "I am honored to have helped craft such an important piece of legislation," Minnick said. "It’s important that we bring real accountability to the process so Americans can be assured that we won’t have another severe loan crisis."
05.07.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, joined House Republicans today in cosponsoring H.R. 2294, the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act. The legislation unequivocally opposes releasing terrorists from the Guantanamo Bay facility and transferring them to the United States. It also makes clear that governors and state legislatures must pre-approve the transfer or release of any terrorist detainee into their respective states, and requires the Administration to meet strict criteria and certification standards before terrorists housed at the Guantanamo prison could be brought to the United States. “Some of the world’s most dangerous terrorists are currently being held at Guantanamo Bay,” Simpson said. “These are the criminals who are intent on destroying the United States and our way of life. Those whose entire goal is to kill or injure Americans should never be transferred to our neighborhoods and communities to be held where U.S. citizens live.” Following is a summary of the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act: Affirming Congress’ Opposition to the Release and Transfer of Terrorists: The bill affirms Congress’ opposition to transferring or releasing terrorists held at the Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States. Governor & State Legislature Pre-Approval: The measure prohibits the Administration from transferring or releasing any terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay to any state without express approval from the state’s governor and legislature, and certifies to Congress that strict requirements have been met. For example, the Administration must certify to the respective governor and state legislature that the detainee does not pose a security risk to the United States. The certifications must be made 60 days before any transfer or release. Presidential Certification Requirements: The measure prohibits the President from transferring or releasing a terrorist detainee into the United States unless he provides the following notification and certification to Congress regarding: The name of the detainee and transfer/release location in the United States. The release/transfer would not negatively impact continued prosecution of the detainee. The release/transfer would not negatively impact continued detention of the detainee. The ability of federal judges to release detainees into the United States.
05.04.2009	The first full week of May is National Teacher Appreciation Week and Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored H.Res. 374 that ‘recognizes the roles and contributions of America’s teachers to building and enhancing our Nation’s civic, cultural, and economic well-being.’ "Teachers play a critical role in shaping our future as they touch the lives of children everyday. They inspire, encourage, motivate, and educate the next generation," said Simpson. "I applaud their efforts and thank them for their dedication." While Congress recognizes National Teacher Week, there is legislation to also create a National Teacher Day. This resolution would call on the President to issue a proclamation to the American people to observe and celebrate a National Teacher Day on the Tuesday of the first full week of May. Simpson is also a cosponsor of this legislation. "As a member of the Appropriations committee, I have spent a great deal of time working on education issues, meeting with teachers, and trying to better understand the many issues confronting our nation’s schools," said Simpson. "While there are many pressing needs at hand, I will take every opportunity to recognize the commitment of our teachers, many of whom are underpaid and often times underappreciated for their crucial work." During this week, a number of organizations, such as the National Education Association and the National Parent Teacher Association, have planned events at the national and local level to express appreciation for the work and dedication of America’s educators in teaching our nation’s students.
05.01.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined U.S. House Republicans by cosponsoring H.R. 2021, the Savings Recovery Act. The legislation will help Americans protect and rebuild their hard-earned savings as quickly as possible while making sure the federal government does not hinder the process. “Savings and investment loss is the number-one economic issue on the minds of American families, which is not surprising--we’ve all watched our 401(k)s and other savings plans diminish in recent months,” said Simpson. “House Republicans are proposing a plan that will allow individuals to make timely decisions on their investments without the current law’s severe penalties.” Americans should be afforded every opportunity to help rebuild the savings. Therefore, the Savings Recovery Act will raise the contribution and catch-up limits on retirement plans. The bill will also suspend the minimum withdrawals requirements for retirees over 70 ½ so they are not forced to take money out of their retirement accounts at a time when the value is low. The Savings Recovery Act also addresses the need of families to rebuild college savings. Not only will this legislation extend the existing SAVERs Credit to contributions made to 529 college savings accounts, but it will also allow families to change the investment direction of the plan twice a year, instead of only once as current law dictates. As a result, families will have the flexibility they need to ensure that their children will have access to a college education. In addition, seniors and investors need tax relief on capital gains tax, and H.R. 2021 addresses this need as well by immediately suspending the capital gains tax on newly acquired assets for the next two years and raising the index inflation of capital losses. “One of the most important items this bill addresses is preserving employee-controlled 401 (k)s,” said Simpson. “There are those in Washington who would like to wipe out 401 (k)s entirely and replace them with government-run accounts, similar to the Social Security program. Like many Idahoans, I am concerned about any such proposal. We all know how instable the Social Security is, and we can not afford to allow this to happen.” H.R. 2021 is now being considered by the House Ways and Means Committee.
04.30.2009	Congressman Simpson voted today for H.R. 627, the Credit Card Holder’s Bill of Rights Act of 2009. H.R. 627 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 357-70. “Credit cards have, for better or worse, changed the way American families manage their finances, and today approximately half of the population own credit cards,” Simpson said. “I believe that consumers must acquire and use credit cards responsibly, but I am concerned that some credit card companies make doing so difficult by charging hidden fees or changing their rules without much notification.” Specifically H.R. 627 would: Prohibit certain unfair and deceptive practices by credit card companies. For example, the bill prohibits retroactive rate increases on existing balances and requires creditors to provide written notice of any rate increase at least 45 days before the increase goes into effect. Prohibit double cycle billing, where an individual is charged interest on the entire balance of the credit card even when he or she pays off a portion of what is due, limits overlimit fees, and bans fees on interest-only balances. “I’ve heard from many Idahoans who have been diligent about the way they use credit cards but are caught off-guard by huge interest rate increases or new contract terms. Especially in this economy, families need to have the tools to manage their finances responsibly,” Simpson said. “H.R. 627 includes a number of common sense measures that ensure that credit card users have the information they need to do so.” In addition, the bill aims to protect young people from the pitfalls of credit card abuse by prohibiting companies from offering credit cards to minors without their parents or guardians cosigning. It would also require companies to ensure that college students qualify for credit by obtaining a credit and income history before approving credit applications. “Credit card misuse can overwhelm family finances and leave young adults deeply in debt,” Simpson said. “I think it is prudent to put some restrictions on a company’s ability to solicit students and young adults with credit card offers.” It is important for consumers to be knowledgeable about their credit card contracts and aware of the fees being charged, and they should question those they believe are unfair or unethical.
04.30.2009	Today is Financial Literacy Day on Capitol Hill, but Congressman Mike Simpson would like to see awareness on this issue continue throughout the year. “Financial literacy allows individuals to make sound financial decisions, provide for their own economic security, and meet goals like obtaining a college education, starting a small business, or owning a home,” Simpson said. The current economic environment has made it clear that the financial crisis we face is not only a national one, but an individual one as well. The high cost of education and other goods and services and the easy availability of credit have left many Americans deeply in credit card debt. The mortgage crisis has revealed that many Americans purchased homes without knowing what they were getting into and have now discovered that they don’t have the ability to pay their mortgages in the long term. Financial literacy efforts in Idaho and other programs across the country educate Americans on how to manage their finances and prepare for the future. Simpson is a strong supporter of financial education programs in schools. “When young people learn to be financially responsible at an early age, they benefit throughout their lives,” Simpson said. “However, it is never too late to become money-wise.” To learn more about saving and investing wisely visit Idaho’s Department of Finance’s financial literacy website at www.finance.idaho.gov/Education/FinancialLiteracy. This site also provides tips about protecting yourself from fraud, and effectively managing finances for your family or your business.
04.29.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 2083, the Border Sovereignty and Protection Act. This legislation will strengthen the security along the U.S.-Mexico border to better prevent the smuggling of weapons and narcotics. “We live in a global community, but that doesn’t mean we have open borders,” said Simpson. “We must be able to secure our borders for the safety of all Americans. Illegal drugs and weapons have been flooding our nation and we need to do a better job of stopping it. I’m hopeful this bill will allow law enforcement to do what is necessary to keep harmful weapons, narcotics, and smugglers out of our country.” Currently, almost 5,000 Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agents are prohibited from participating in drug crime investigations. This bill would provide the Department of Homeland Security with legal authority to investigate criminal drug violations under the Controlled Substances Act. The more agents that can handle drug crimes, the more criminals we can prosecute. Some local and state governments maintain sanctuary policies and prohibit local law enforcement officials from gathering information on an individual’s immigration status. H.R. 2083 would deny reimbursement for State Criminal Alien Assistance Program to those localities. “It is also imperative that when we tackle the issue of illegal aliens, we focus our efforts on who are committing heinous crimes in our country first. That is why I’m pleased this bill permits the Secretary of Homeland Security to expeditiously remove criminal aliens,” said Simpson. H.R. 2083 is under consideration by the House Judiciary Committee and the House Homeland Security Committee.
04.15.2009	Today, Idahoans are gathering all over the state to demonstrate their frustration and discontent with our current tax system as well as the out-of-control growth of government spending. Idaho Congressman Simpson shares these concerns and is pleased that these Idahoans are making sure that their representatives in government hear their message. “I strongly support the concept of these “Tea Parties” and hope they will demonstrate to Congressional Leaders and to President Obama that the American people are fed up with government spending and intend on making their voices heard,” said Simpson. Simpson is a staunch supporter of fiscal responsibility and ensuring that the government is accountable to the taxpayers. Recently, Simpson voted against the President’s FY 2010 budget that includes over $3 trillion in spending, the Omnibus Appropriations Bill that spent almost $500 billion, and he voted against the $787 billion stimulus bill. Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 982, the Tax Code Termination Act of 2009, which abolishes the current tax code and requires a new tax code be instated that is simple and fair. “I believe the most effective course of action is to sunset the current complex and unfair federal tax code and replace it with a fair alternative,” said Simpson. “A new tax code should provide tax relief for working Americans, protect the rights of taxpayers, reduce tax collection abuses, and eliminate disincentives for savings and investment.” In addition to creating a completely new tax system, Simpson is an original cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution which would require the federal government to do as the State of Idaho does – live within its means.
04.03.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased that an exhibition from the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) will be on display in rural Idaho. Simpson is the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment that oversees funding for the Smithsonian Institution. “Between Fences,” an exhibition from the Museum on Main Street, a partnership of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service and the Federation of State Humanities Councils, examines the history and meaning of fences in America. Included in the exhibition are tools, photographs, journals, postcards and posters relating to the history of fences. Fences are an integral part of the fabric of the communities in the United States; so too is their rich history. “The ability for traveling exhibits of this stature to come to Idaho is extraordinary,” said Simpson. “I’m even more thrilled that we have the opportunity to bring them to some of Idaho’s more remote locations so that citizens of all ages have this unique opportunity to view and learn from them.” The exhibition opens on April 3, 2009 in Salmon, Idaho, at the Salmon Arts Council and will remain on view through May 16, 2009. The exhibit will then travel to Ketchum, Idaho at the Community Library and will be on display from May 22 – July 4, 2009. The exhibition then will tour additional states during its five-year run. “The Smithsonian is delighted that ‘Between Fences’ is featured at the Salmon Arts Council,” said Wayne Clough, Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. “The Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service is the largest of its kind in the world and it reaches millions of people, including residents of the great state of Idaho, as well as people who can’t come visit our nation’s capital.” Fences are icons of the American landscape. They can be used to create a welcoming picture of home or a wall of privacy and security. Fences have pitted rancher against rancher in the battle for scarce resources; back fences serve as meeting places where neighbors share recipes, local gossip or a friendly joke. Americans live between fences. “Between Fences” focuses on a range of fence materials and how they have varied over time and by region. Colonial America’s first fences were made of wood or stone. But as settlement moved westward, forests dwindled. Farmers needing to protect their crops from free-ranging cattle came to rely on the steel wire industry to create strong, inexpensive fence material. Using fences to establish boundaries led to the fence wars of the late 19th century. These conflicts turned neighbor against neighbor, sometimes with deadly consequences. More than two centuries later, the question is posed: What is the intent of fences? SITES has been sharing the wealth of Smithsonian collections and research programs with millions of people outside Washington, D.C., for more than 50 years. SITES connects Americans to their shared cultural heritage through a wide range of exhibitions about art, science and history, which are shown wherever people live, work and play. For more information, including exhibition descriptions and tour schedules, visit www.sites.si.edu.
04.01.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, in a meeting with Energy Secretary Steven Chu yesterday, stressed the importance of nuclear energy to our nation’s economic growth and pushed for more information on an alternative plan to Yucca Mountain. Simpson met with Secretary Chu as part of a 4-member delegation representing the nation’s four large nuclear cleanup sites. “Secretary Chu is very engaging and very articulate on many of the issues most important to our state and Idaho National Laboratory,” said Simpson. “He clearly understands the importance of nuclear energy to our base load supply and its crucial role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I made clear my strong support for nuclear energy and my intention to renew my pro-nuclear message with him in budget hearings later this spring.” The meeting also included a discussion of the Obama Administration’s plan to move away from Yucca Mountain and develop a new long-term strategy for spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste. “Secretary Chu repeated the company line in our meeting but I sensed recognition on his part that this decision presents enormous legal, contractual, and environmental challenges for the DOE that must be addressed,” said Simpson. “The DOE has said what it won’t do. Now it needs to articulate what it will do, and I expect those answers sooner rather than later.” Simpson also had the opportunity to discuss the importance of sustainable and predictable funding for the DOE’s cleanup program and Areva’s pending loan guarantee for construction of a uranium enrichment facility in Eastern Idaho. He was joined in the meeting by Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), Rep. Zack Wamp (R-TN), and Rep. Gresham Barrett (R-SC). They represent DOE sites in Hanford, WA, Oak Ridge, TN, and Savannah River, SC.
03.31.2009	“This week, I will submit a list of Idaho-based projects to the House Appropriations Committee for consideration in Fiscal Year 2010. I am keenly aware that these project, or earmark, requests are seen by some as an example of wasteful federal spending and I understand fully that too many federal projects are indeed wasteful. “I decided to write and publish this column in an effort to share with the people of Idaho not only the types of projects I put forward, but my reasons for doing so. I believe the most appropriate reform of the earmark system is not to ban them outright, but to expose them to the light of day and allow every American citizen a chance to see them and comment on them. I also want to be clear that the projects I am requesting represent only a portion of those submitted to me this year. Many did not make the cut. “The projects I have submitted are focused largely on growing the Idaho National Laboratory and the jobs it provides for eastern Idaho, expanding course offerings at Idaho’s colleges and universities, improving Idaho’s water and transportation infrastructure, preserving and conserving Idaho’s native species and public lands, and growing jobs and opportunities in Idaho’s high-tech and health-related economies. “To grow the Idaho National Laboratory and expand its mission as our nation’s lead nuclear energy laboratory, I am seeking an increase of $56 million to build new laboratories, increase the capabilities of the Advanced Test Reactor, and further INL’s collaboration with NASA in deep space missions. I am seeking a substantial increase in the development of a nuclear reactor at INL which would produce both electricity and heat for use in chemical processes. And I am seeking an increase in the federal government’s commitment to cleanup contaminated areas of the site. “For our states colleges and universities, I am supporting an array of projects that expand their collaboration with the Department of Defense in the protection of our nation’s vital interests both here and abroad. I am seeking improvements on campus for student safety, funding for programs that match course offerings to the needs of employers, expansion of agriculture research programs that keep our nation’s commodities attractive in a global marketplace, and advancements for new technologies that promote Idaho-based innovation in highly technical fields such as the production of medical isotopes. “To move people and goods across our state with greater efficiency, I am seeking funding for our state’s roads and bridges including highway 75 near Sun Valley, the City of Rocks Back Country Byway, and a public lands highway in Custer County. I will be seeking funding for buses and bus facilities across the state and the widening of I-84 from Broadway to Gowen Road. “Beyond these critical needs, I will be seeking funding for public waters systems in Buhl, Lava, Soda Springs, American Falls, Shelley, and Ammon. I will attempt to finish the extension of Boise’s Geothermal System to Boise State University. And I will seek to spur job growth at Idaho high-tech businesses including Premier Technology, American Semiconductor, and M2E Power Systems. “These projects represent much, but not all, of the funding I will seek for next year. A complete list of my submissions can be found on my website at www.house.gov/simpson/appropriations.shtml. “As I wrote above, I believe the best tonic for wasteful spending is transparency and the input of citizens all across America. With that in mind, I invite all Idahoans to review the projects I have supported and tell me and my staff where you believe we have hit the mark or gone off the tracks. “In the end, I can either seek these projects for Idaho or allow the funding to go to some other state. I would rather see that funding end up in Idaho – but I would prefer it be directed to projects that merit taxpayer investment.”
03.30.2009	The methamphetamine epidemic has led to a growing need for costly dental care. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined House colleagues in introducing bi-partisan legislation, H.R. 1671, the Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act, that will aid providers in combating this pandemic. "The only chance we have to combat meth is through education," said Simpson. "This bill will fund local, school-based initiatives to educate primary and elementary school students about what using meth will do to their teeth. Meth causes teeth to blacken, rot and fall apart – often meth users end up with no teeth at all and students need to hear this message." Little is known about what actually causes meth mouth. Some have speculated that the drug’s ability to dry the mouth and the tendency of users to grind and clench their teeth are factors. However, few peer reviewed studies have been published about its prevalence, its causes, its physical effects, or its cost to the public. H.R. 1671 will help answer some of these important questions. The Meth Mouth Prevention and Community Recovery Act will: • make grants available for educating 12 to 17 year-olds about meth mouth (with an eye on preventing first-time methamphetamine use); • expand and intensify the Department of Health and Human Services’ clinical, health services, and public health research on associations between substance use disorders, oral health, and the provision of dental care; • authorize a study to determine whether, how, and to what degree methamphetamine use affects the demand for (and provision of) dental care; and • promote a series of continuing education activities for dentists to learn about substance use disorders and their relationship to oral health and the provision of dental care.
03.26.2009	When the House of Representatives passed the Omnibus Public Lands Management Act of 2009, Congressman Mike Simpson’s bill to rename the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area was included. Also in the bill is Simpson’s legislation that transfers four federally-owned parcels of land in the Auger Falls area for the creation of a community park and recreation area. Once the bill is signed by the President, the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, will be renamed to the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area. “Morley Nelson was a devoted advocate for the protection of the nation's birds of prey,” said Simpson. “I am proud to be part of honoring his life and work in such a manner.” Simpson has also been working with the City of Twin Falls for several years to transfer four federally-owned parcels of land in the Auger Falls area that will create a community park and recreation area for residents. “I believe strongly in the City’s vision to make the Auger Falls area accessible to the public and this bill will help the City accomplish that goal,” said Simpson. “The Auger Falls area is a spectacular undeveloped landscape deep in the Snake River Canyon but off-limits to most of the public. By consolidating ownership of the land, we can help facilitate both the preservation and enjoyment of this area for current and future generations. I greatly appreciate the cooperation of Mayor Clow and City staff in preparing this bill and look forward to working with them to make their vision a reality.” Again, once President Obama signs the legislation, Simpson’s legislation would transfer to the City of Twin Falls four parcels of land (approximately 165 acres) scattered throughout the Auger Falls area and owned by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The bill stipulates that the land must be used for the development of the City’s public park concept and specifically prohibits any commercial or residential development on the transferred land.
03.26.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted in favor of H.R. 1404, the Federal Land Assistance, Management, and Enhancement Act (FLAME Act). Simpson, who is Ranking Member of the House Interior and Resources Appropriations Subcommittee, is an original cosponsor to the legislation that boosts funding for catastrophic wildfires. H.R. 1404 also would create a designated source of funding for catastrophic emergency wildfires. “The way we are currently funding wildfire fighting is counterproductive, to say the least,” Simpson said. “Each year, the need to fund fire suppression overshadows the need to fund fuel reduction, healthy forest management, and other efforts to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires. At the end of the day, we are spending more money, sacrificing more acres of land, and risking more property and lives without ever getting ahead of the curve.” Simpson added, “As we prepare for what is expected to be another severe wildfire season, I think it is prudent that we take stock of the current, broken funding system and ensure that we have the tools to practice good management of our resources. The FLAME Act is a good start.” · The number of acres burned by wildland fires has increased by 70 percent over the past decade, and the cost of fighting fires gone from making up 13 percent of the U.S. Forest Service budget to almost half. · When the need for suppression funds exceeds the appropriated fire budget, the Forest Service and other land management agencies are forced to borrow from other areas of their budget, which don’t always get repaid. As a result, as the cost of fighting fires goes up, the agencies’ ability to prevent them is reduced. · The FLAME Act would provide a separate, dedicated fund for emergency catastrophic wildfire suppression so that the agencies will not be forced to rob from land management accounts to pay for wildfire suppression. · Federal government oversight agencies, including the Government Accountability Office, have testified in recent hearings that the public land management agencies do not have a cohesive wildland fire management strategy. The FLAME Act would require the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Interior to provide Congress with such a plan. H.R. 1404 passed the U.S House of Representatives with a final vote of 412-3 and will now be considered by the U.S. Senate.
03.24.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined fellow members of the House Nuclear Cleanup Caucus in sending letters to Secretary of Energy Steven Chu and to House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt and Ranking Member Paul Ryan requesting that funding for the Environmental Management (EM) Program be included in their FY10 Budget request. To Secretary Chu the Caucus wrote, “The Bush Administration went from proposing record levels of cleanup funding to proposing a budget for 2009 that would have failed to meet cleanup obligations, halted several cleanup projects and cost hundreds of jobs. Higher funding is not just warranted, it is required under legal commitments made by the federal government. Under reduced budgets, cleanup ultimately takes longer and costs taxpayers more. By delaying cleanup, environmental and safety risks are increased. It is critical that cleanup funding no longer be subject to budget highs and lows, which waste taxpayer dollars and lead to surging, and then fading, employment. This is unfair to workers and damaging to local communities. For example, it would be extremely harmful if stimulus funding for cleanup was used as an excuse to reduce annual budgets.” “At the Idaho National Laboratory, cleanup is vitally important to their mission. As our scientists and engineers work to develop new forms of energy to meet our future energy needs, we must ensure that DOE and Congress uphold their commitment to the State of Idaho and our citizens to clean up the legacies left over from our past,” said Simpson. In a similar letter to the House Budget Committee the Caucus explained, “Cleanup at our sites will extend well into the future - beyond the life of any one budget, appropriations bill or stimulus plan. Achieving the steady, dependable levels of funding required for cleanup success will require a continued commitment. Congress has the opportunity to set the right course now under the Fiscal Year 2010 Budget Resolution. We respectfully request your assistance in putting the EM program on a path forward that enables the federal government’s existing legal cleanup commitments to be kept, builds upon the success achieved under the accelerated cleanup initiative, and makes the cleanup budget a priority.” The bipartisan House Nuclear Cleanup Caucus has long been committed to funding the nuclear cleanup program at levels necessary to protect the environment, ensure progress, keep skilled workers on the job, and uphold the government's legal commitments to the states. The Caucus includes: Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Rep. Zac Wamp (R-TN), Rep. J. Gresham Barrett (R-SC), Rep. Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Rep. Eric Massa (D-NY), Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. John Duncan Jr. (R-TN), Rep. David Wu (D-OR), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Rep. Paul Brown (R-GA), Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA), Rep. Walt Minnick (D-ID), Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC), Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA), Rep. Brian Baird (D-WA), Rep. Norm Dicks (D-WA), Rep. Harry Teague (D-NM).
03.19.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson shares the widespread public outrage about the bonuses AIG issued to its employees and strongly believes that these bonuses need to be paid back to the taxpayer through effective, legal means. Simpson is a cosponsor of legislation that would remove the provision of the economic stimulus bill that exempted these bonuses from being subject to the executive pay caps that had been put into place. “I think it is incredibly irresponsible for AIG to take $170 billion of taxpayer money and use it in such a manner,” said Simpson. “They paid outrageous bonuses to the very individuals who helped create this difficult economic situation in which we find ourselves, and I strongly believe that we need to use every legal means available to recoup the taxpayers’ money.” Simpson continued, “Unfortunately, the Democrats’ knee-jerk reaction today is unconstitutional and will not hold up in court. This legislation will end up costing the American public millions of more dollars trying to defend it - only to be defeated. The American people want an effective, appropriate response, and we need to explore all possible ways to get the bonus money back by legal means. Let’s allow this process to occur before enacting unconstitutional legislation.” Congressmen Simpson and Minnick are cosponsors of H.R. 1577, which requires the Secretary of the Treasury to pursue every legal means to stay or recoup certain incentive bonus payments and retention payments made by AIG to its executives and employees. The legislation also requires the Secretary’s approval of such payments by any financial institution who receives funds under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
03.18.2009	The United States House of Representatives designated the United States Postal Service located at 103 W. Main Street in McLain, Mississippi, as the ‘Major Ed W. Freeman Post Office.’ This is the home town to the Congressional Medal of Honor Recipient. Freeman was a veteran of World War II, Korea, and Vietnam, and the recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor for his actions on November 14, 1965, at Landing Zone X-Ray, in the Ia Drang Valley of Vietnam. His citation credits him with helping save 30 seriously wounded soldiers in 14 separate rescue missions in an unarmed helicopter. “It is extremely fitting that we should name a federal building after Major Ed Freeman,” said Simpson. “It is an honor to have known him and all Americans should be honored that he served our country and defend her in the manner in which he did.” H.R. 1284 designated the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 103 West Main Street in McLain, Mississippi, as the `Major Ed W. Freeman Post Office.’ This bill passed the U.S. House unanimously by a final vote of 384-0. Freeman was a Mississippi native and the Post Office that was renamed in located in his hometown. Freeman’s wife, Barbara is an Idaho native and after an outstanding military career, the couple retired in the Treasure Valley. Freeman past away last August and was laid to rest in the Idaho State Veterans Cemetery.
03.13.2009	In order to encourage responsible homeownership, Congressman Mike Simpson has cosponsored H.R. 1317, legislation that would provide a tax credit to homeowners who have paid and continued to pay their mortgages. “It is clear that the mortgage crisis is at the root of the financial turmoil facing our nation, and I recognize the need to stem the growing tide of foreclosures and plummeting value of homes,” said Simpson. “One important way to do that is to make sure that the vast majority of Americans who have been paying their mortgages are able to stay in their homes, and H.R. 1317 let’s those hardworking families keep more of the money they earn to do just that.” H.R. 1317 would allow individuals who are liable for principle mortgage payments which are due during 2008 and 2009 and who make all payments on time to receive a $5,000 tax credit. A married individual filing a separate return would be eligible for a $2,500 tax credit. The tax credit only applies on mortgages for principle residences in the United States. “Despite the current crisis, more than 90% of American mortgage holders are paying their mortgages in full and on time, and some are struggling to do so,” Simpson said. “This approach simply makes sense: it is a way for those who have been acting responsibly to continue doing so, helping to grown our economy and allowing them to stay in their homes without proliferating the current problems through irresponsible loans or taxpayer bailouts.”
03.11.2009	Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Ranking Member Mike Simpson participated in a subcommittee hearing today to review the U.S. Forest Service’s ability to manage its budget. This is the second in a series of hearings intended to provide oversight for agencies whose funding falls under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. “I have always believed that Congress has an important—and unfortunately sometimes overlooked—role in overseeing the way the money we appropriate to the agencies is spent by them,” said Simpson. “As we have conducted these hearings, that belief has only been strengthened.” In today’s hearing, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the USDA Inspector General testified about the management challenges facing the U.S. Forest Service, especially as they face significantly growing costs for wildfire suppression. With the number of acres burned by wildland fires having increased by 70 percent over the past decade, the cost of fighting fires now makes up close to half of the agency’s budget. “One of the biggest concerns I have regarding the Forest Service budget is the fact that no matter how much we appropriate for fuel reduction, healthy forest management, and other efforts to reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfires in the future, each year that money gets sucked out of the budget to fight catastrophic fires happening that year. We end up simply chasing our tales,” said Simpson, “rather than practicing good management of our resources. Addressing the fire budget is one of my top priorities.” During the hearing, the witnesses also testified that the agency must dramatically improve its ability to oversee financial and performance accountability. According to GAO testimony, “The agency has not always been able to provide Congress and the public with a clear understanding of what its 30,000 employees accomplish with the approximately $5 billion the agency receives every year.” Congressman Simpson expressed his deep concern with this conclusion during the hearing. “As an appropriator, this is a devastating statement,” Simpson declared. “If I can’t tell you what I’m accomplishing with the money you’ve appropriated to me, what right do I have to come in here and ask you for more money the next year?” Next week the subcommittee is scheduled to hold its third oversight hearing, where witnesses will testify regarding the EPA.
03.06.2009	Governor C.L. “Butch” Otter and all four members of Idaho’s congressional delegation joined today in praising Interior Secretary Ken Salazar’s affirmation of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service decision to remove gray wolves from the list of threatened and endangered species in Idaho and other areas. “Wolves are a fully recovered species that is thriving in Idaho. That’s a fact, and it is heartening to see that Secretary Salazar recognizes it,” said Governor Otter, who urged today’s action when he met with Secretary Salazar last month at the National Governors Association conference in Washington, D.C. “We know that well-intentioned but narrowly focused interest groups will challenge this decision, but we in Idaho are determined to continue our policy of responsibly managing wolves for a viable, sustainable population that can co-exist with our ungulate herds, our livestock and our people.” “I appreciate Secretary Salazar’s willingness to look at the facts in this case and make a good, sound decision to delist the wolves in Idaho,” Congressman Mike Simpson said. “We’ve been looking forward to this decision for a long time, and I have great confidence in the ability of the State of Idaho and the Nez Perce Tribe to get it right regarding wolf management. The goal of any ESA listing should be eventual recovery, and I am very pleased with this decision today.” “Secretary Salazar is to be commended for his common-sense decision that now allows Idaho’s wolf management plan to be fully implemented,” Senator Mike Crapo said. “Idaho’s plan reflects the biological reality on the ground and sets the stage for a much more collaborative approach to wolf management in the future. As contentious as this planning has been at times, the effort involving the federal government, the State of Idaho, the Tribes, the livestock industry and conservationists has been affirmed by the Secretary and reflects yet again the power of collaboration in successfully recovering species.” "As Idaho Governor in 2006 I strongly pushed for the delisting of wolves in our state. Those efforts included conference calls with the Deputy Secretary of the Interior and meetings with the Montana Governor and other Interior officials urging that delisting,” Senator Jim Risch said. “My belief was then, and it is affirmed today, that wolves in Idaho are fully recovered and can be managed in a sustainable and responsible way within our borders. I greatly appreciate Secretary Salazar’s decision and am confident that it will stand in the face of any litigation it may face.” “Over the last month I have lobbied Secretary Salazar to act quickly on this issue. I’m pleased today to see the Department of Interior do just that, and to see the administration acknowledge that states should be in control,” Congressman Walt Minnick said. “I’ve had extensive discussions on this issue with other members of Congress from the West, including Rep. John Salazar, a fellow Blue Dog Democrat and western Colorado cattle rancher who happens to be the secretary’s brother. They all recognize the need for local collaboration and local control, and were instrumental in helping move the delisting forward.”
03.04.2009	Today, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson sent a letter to House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman requesting an oversight hearing to explore the affects of certain mandates of the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act (CPISA) of 2008. Simpson is specifically concerned that the implementation of the bill has now banned the sales of children’s off-highway vehicles (OHVs). OHVs, including all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) and off-highway motorcycles, are very popular recreational and transportation tools in Idaho. The State of Idaho has the second highest OHV participation rate in the country with over 100,000 OHVs currently registered and 10,000 more registering every year. In addition to adult usage, responsible parents across the State encourage and allow their children, including many under the age of 12, to safely use OHVs in competitive racing and in many other forms of recreation. In the letter, Congressman Simpson addressed the issue of retailers that are currently unable to sell children’s OHVs and have removed hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of merchandise from their showroom floors to comply with new lead standards. "They are not being reimbursed for this loss. I supported the CPSIA when it passed in the House of Representatives, but this law has begun to overreach its stated intent and focus, which was to prevent children from ingesting lead contained in toys, jewelry and similar harmful items. In this light, an exemption for children’s OHVs would be prudent." The letter also stressed the importance of consumer awareness. Consumers must be attentive to the fact that small amounts of lead are contained in tire valve stems, brake components and battery terminals in OHVs. Parents must be aware that lead exposure is dangerous for children in any amount, and young OHV users must be made aware of the dangers of lead exposure just as they are made aware of the dangers of using an OHV in the first place. "I will continue to strongly support robust consumer protections on any product that comes into contact with children," said Simpson. "However, in this case regarding OHVs, the law overreaches. With many new laws, problems are uncovered in the implementation that were not anticipated or intended during their formation. A balance must be struck to ensure that children are protected without unfairly burdening retailers."
03.03.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, who is the Ranking Member of the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, participated in a hearing where the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and Department of Interior Inspector General (IG) testified regarding oversight of the Department of Interior. Congressman Simpson raised several concerns during the committee, highlighting the importance of congressional oversight. “I get frustrated with how Congress focuses on how much is being spent rather than how we spend what we appropriate, and how oversight tends to get overlooked,” Simpson said. “I disagree with this approach and believe that oversight is one of the most important functions of the Appropriations Committee.” Simpson continued, “It is especially appropriate that we concentrate on oversight now that Congress has given its stamp of approval on over $15 billion in stimulus funding for the Department of Interior, as well as large increases in the Omnibus package the House passed last week.” Many members shared Simpson’s concerns and agreed when he called for additional oversight hearings to address issues within the Department of Interior. Interior Secretary Salazar is tentatively scheduled to testify to the subcommittee in the coming weeks. The hearing today focused on management issues ranging from the challenges related to wildland fires, severe Parks Service maintenance backlogs, and oil and gas leasing to ethical problems at the Department and the lack of leadership in the Bureau of Indian Affairs. As Ranking Member, Simpson has signaled his interest in continuing oversight hearings with the agencies under the jurisdiction of the subcommittee. Next week, the subcommittee is scheduled to hold a hearing regarding oversight of the U.S. Forest Service.
03.03.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson introduced a House Resolution today congratulating the American Dental Association (ADA) for its 150th year of working to improve Americans public’s oral health and promoting dentistry. “For 150 years, the ADA has been supporting initiatives to improve access to oral health care services for all Americans,” said Simpson. “Dentists in Idaho and across the country continue to emphasize the benefits of disease prevention through community initiatives and by the promotion of good oral hygiene.” This resolution will commemorate all the ADA has done since the 1859 meeting in Niagara Falls, New York, when 26 dentists, concerned about maintaining the reputation of their growing profession, founded the Association. The ADA’s founders were interested in maintaining the high quality of training that their fellow members received. This interest has never waned for the Association, which has over the years ensured that American dentists are among the world’s most highly skilled and educated. “As a dentist and member of the ADA, I am keenly aware of the good work that the ADA has done on behalf of the dental profession,” said Simpson. “The ADA isn’t just interested in issues that benefit its members--this organization looks out for the public’s interest too. A perfect example is the work the ADA has done to improving oral health care access for the underserved.” From its efforts fighting cavities through improved dental technologies to its advocacy for low-income children who desperately need dental care, the members of the ADA spend their time and energy working to improve Americans’ well-being. This resolution will recognize them for their contributions to improving the health of all Americans.
02.24.2009	In a letter sent to the House Judiciary Committee, Congressmen Mike Simpson (R-ID), Jim Matheson (D-UT) and Walt Minnick (D-ID) requested an oversight hearing on the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA), its amendments of July 2000, and the possibility of expanding the legislation to cover individuals exposed to radioactive fallout that are not currently covered. The letter was addressed to Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX). The United States carried out more than 1000 nuclear weapons tests for more than two decades. The radioactive debris from these tests entered our nation’s atmosphere and was later deposited, in the form of radioactive fallout, all across our nation as can be seen in the accompanying Iodine-131 map produced by the National Cancer Institute. In their letter, Congressmen Simpson, Matheson and Minnick addressed the relationship of exposure, poor health and compensation, "For decades, individuals living within the fallout areas have lived with adverse health effects caused by radiation exposure. Today, several claimant categories exist which allow individuals meeting certain criteria to apply for compensation ranging from $50,000 to $75,000 per individual, depending on their category." The letter also stressed the importance of treating fallout victims fairly, "Eligibility for compensation, however, is limited to certain counties in just a few states. These geographical boundaries are, quite frankly, arbitrary boundaries that do not account for the fact that radioactive fallout does not abide by lines on a map. Some of the counties experiencing the largest concentration of fallout in the entire nation are not included in the current RECA program – including areas in our home states of Idaho and Utah." In 2000, Congress enhanced the RECA program by adding additional categories of compensable illnesses, but has not received serious review by the Congress in the past seven years. For this reason, Simpson, Matheson and Minnick believe now is an appropriate time for the Judiciary Committee to hold an oversight hearing on this important federal law. A copy of the complete letter is available upon request. Contact Nikki Watts at 208-863-0674 or nikki.watts@mail.house.gov.
02.23.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of substantial increases in funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of final legislation funding the Department of Energy in Fiscal Year 2009. “The funding increases in this bill represent a complete endorsement by Congress of the significant contributions INL’s workforce and leadership are making to our energy and national security,” said Simpson. “In concert with the Lab’s leadership and workforce, I have been pushing and pushing for years to improve the facilities at INL and see some new buildings rising in town and on the desert. This bill provides a significant down payment on the infrastructure revitalization plan envisioned for INL.” Among its many provisions, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes: · A $36 million increase over the President’s request for Idaho National Laboratory facilities. Total Idaho Facilities Management funding is targeted at $140 million. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, and equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. · A $110 million increase for the Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems program bringing total funding to $180 million. $169 million of this funding is targeted to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant which is designed to produce both electricity and heat for chemical processes. · A $43.6 million increase over the President’s request for cleanup activities at INL bringing total cleanup funding to $475,761,000. · $13.478 million for Non-Defense cleanup activities at INL for the remediation of contaminated facilities – an increase of $9.1 million over the President’s request. · $2.5 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. · $145 million for the Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative. “This bill provides a substantial boost to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the development of advanced gas reactor technology,” said Simpson. “It also places a significant investment in fuel cycle research and the continued development of the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. Nuclear energy research and development at INL are well served in this bill.” In addition to the INL-related funding in the bill, the legislation also includes funding for three important Idaho-based initiatives. · $5 million for the Eastern Idaho Regional Wastewater Treatment Facility being developed by the cities of Shelley and Ammon. Funding will be used for construction of the facility – which is now underway. · $951,500 for the development of Medical Isotopes from Accelerators at Idaho State University’s Idaho Accelerator Center. · $1.4 million for the City of Boise Geothermal System Expansion Project which will extend the existing Geothermal System to Boise State University. “I am pleased to report that this bill contains project funding for three areas critical to our nation’s economy and consistent with the federal government’s responsibilities – energy development, water development, and improvements in medical technology,” said Simpson. “These funds are going to be well spent in Idaho’s communities and institutions of higher learning.”
02.13.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement today after the final vote in the U.S. House on the $800 billion Economic Stimulus package. Simpson voted no on the final passage. "While I support a number of programs and ideas that are reflected in the package we voted on today, I can not support the astronomical amount of money that is being thrown at this problem with very little thought and no debate," said Simpson. "Our country needs repair, it needs help. People are losing their jobs and their homes - we need to act. However, we need to act in a thoughtful manner that includes opinions from all Americans, not just those who control the U.S. House. The way in which this body has conducted its business today – and the entire time we’ve tried to discuss this extremely important legislation – is an embarrassment."
02.10.2009	Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and James E. Risch and Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today introduced the Idaho Efficient Vehicle Demonstration Act of 2009, legislation that calls for portions of Idaho’s interstate roadways to be included in an existing freight transport pilot project in the State. The State pilot project, created in 2003 by the Idaho State Legislature, allows vehicle combinations weighing up to 129,000 pounds to operate on designated routes within the State highway system, as long as those vehicles meet certain safety and efficiency standards. The proposed bill would extend the same criteria to trucks traveling on Interstates 15, 84 and 86 – presently limited to 105,500 pounds – bringing them in line with weight restrictions on interstates in Montana, Wyoming, Utah and Nevada. "With high fuel prices taking a disproportionate hit on rural states like Idaho, we must allow for more cost-efficient transportation of goods to market," Senator Crapo said. "Fewer trucks on the road carrying more produce makes sense, and Idaho’s vehicle laws should be able to match those of its neighboring states." "With a focus on safety those vehicles should be allowed to operate on these designated routes through Idaho," Senator Risch said. "It is important that a compatible system to those of adjacent states be adopted to provide efficiency in the trucking industry and ultimately for the consumers of the goods being transported." "Our transportation system is the backbone of our economy, and the ability to transfer goods quickly and efficiently is essential for America," Congressman Simpson said. "By addressing this highway need, Idaho can play a larger role in transferring goods while still adhering to high safety standards." "Pilot projects such as this one, provide critical information to policy-makers who set the standards for our highway infrastructure," said Congressman Minnick. "In these critical times, we need to look at every option for making Idaho an even better place to do business." The bill, which was introduced in both chambers of Congress today, is supported by Idaho Governor Butch Otter, the Idaho Transportation Department, and a broad spectrum of Idaho businesses. It now goes to the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee and the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure to be vetted and discussed ahead of the 2009 reauthorization of our nation's surface transportation policy.
02.06.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson will attend the Opening Ceremony of the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games. The Ceremony will be held at 2 pm MST at the Idaho Center in Nampa, Idaho. “Athletes, welcome to our home and thank you for touching our hearts. Idahoans are providing a first-class venue for these events and we are all lucky to have this happening in our home state,” said Simpson. “Everyone who has been part of creating this international event should be proud, including organizers, donors, and volunteers - thank you for all of your efforts. Let the games begin!”
01.28.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted against H.R. 1, the $819 billion stimulus package, today. The bill passed by a vote of 244-188. H.R. 1 will launch the United States into the largest deficit we have ever seen, tipping at $1.4 trillion. "A trillion dollars is hard for most people to grasp," said Simpson. "Ronald Reagan suggested imagining a crisp, new stack of $1,000 bills. If you had a stack 4 inches high, you’d be a millionaire. That stack would need to be over 63 miles high to equal a trillion dollars." The legislation has been promoted and described as a transportation and infrastructure investment package, yet only three percent ($30 billion) of this package is to be spent on road and highway spending. "I support spending money on transportation projects that are ready to start, it will put people back to work immediately and our economy will benefit from a much needed and improved infrastructure system," said Simpson. "But instead of targeting money to necessary, ready-to-go projects that will create jobs, this bill is simply a vehicle for all the government spending we’ve ever wanted to do but haven’t been able to pay for. I can’t support this type of irresponsible spending binge that leaves our children and grandchildren holding the check." Economists agree that the most direct and cost-effective way to get the economy back on track quickly is to boost tax incentives for private businesses to expand and create more jobs. A good stimulus bill should be temporary and targeted, putting people back to work and providing our economy with the tools to grow and flourish in the long-term. Congressman Simpson believes we need to not only look at our own history with recessions, but that of other countries. Japan responded to a 1990 recession by passing ten "stimulus" bills over eight years, resulting in the largest national debt in the industrialized world, yet their economy remained stagnant. Their per capita income went from the second highest in the world to the tenth. "We must learn from these examples and not fall into similar situations," said Simpson. "Unemployment is rising, businesses are suffering, individuals are suffering, we know our economy is in a recession - the question is what should the government do to spend taxpayer dollars wisely," said Simpson. "I agree with Speaker Pelosi, this stimulus package needs to be temporary, timely, and targeted; however, this bill is none of these."
01.27.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson had two very important meetings about the upcoming economic stimulus package today. First, he attended a House Budget Committee hearing, then he joined other GOP leaders in a meeting with President Obama to discuss why the President thinks the stimulus package is necessary. “Unemployment is rising, businesses are suffering, individuals are suffering, we know our economy is in a recession - the question is what should the government do to spend taxpayer dollars wisely,” said Simpson. “I agree with Speaker Pelosi, this stimulus package needs to be temporary, timely, and targeted, however, this bill is none of these.” In the Budget Committee, of which Simpson is a member, he made the following observations to Congressional Budget Office Director Doug Elmendorf, “I support the need for funding transportation and infrastructure projects that are shovel ready. I support lower taxes. I do not support allocating billions of dollars on projects that will not be spent this year. This funding should go through the appropriations process with hearings, oversight and open discussion.” Later, Simpson joined other GOP members and met with President Obama. “While I may not agree with all of President Obama’s policies, I appreciate his willingness to sit down with Republicans and ask for our ideas. He is following through on his promises of bipartisanship, and I deeply respect that,” said Simpson. “The President said he didn’t want to create programs that have long tails. He is aware of budgetary constraints and doesn’t want to configure programs that he would have to cut,” said Simpson. “Unfortunately, there is nothing on this earth as eternal as a ‘temporary government program,’ and the programs in the economic stimulus package have long tails."
01.22.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined Republican and Democrat colleagues to disapprove providing additional funding for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). The resolution was passed by a vote of 270-155. “I am disgusted that, despite Congress’s explicit instructions, scrutiny and oversight of this massive program has been spotty at best and in some cases downright non-existent,” said Simpson. “Within days of its enactment, I expressed my concern to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Paulson that the taxpayer funds provided through TARP were not being used in the way Congress intended and were being used to boost a few healthy institutions instead of benefiting the entire system. Congress insisted on transparency and accountability, and yet that accountability is still nonexistent.” Last fall, Congress approved $700 billion in TARP funding last fall to prevent the meltdown of the U.S. financial system by purchasing troubled assets from institutions that were suffering acutely under the burden created by the housing crisis. However, those funds were never used for the intended purpose but were redirected, without the consent of Congress, for other purposes, including a bail out of the U.S. automobile industry. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 only released half of the TARP funding and gave Congress the authority to disapprove the release of the second half. Last week the White House has requested that Congress release the remaining $350 billion. “Hardworking Idaho taxpayers expect value and accountability for every dollar they send to Washington, and I cannot support any continuation of this program without clear and fundamental changes to ensure that the taxpayers’ investment pays long-term dividends,” said Simpson. While the House voted today to disapprove obligation of the remaining $350 billion under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, last week the Senate approved giving the additional money to the Administration.
01.21.2009	Today the U.S. House Appropriations Committee passed an $825 billion economic stimulus package. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the Committee, is appalled at the unprecedented spending contained in the economic stimulus package with very little guarantee of economic growth and voted against the measure. “There is not a more bipartisan committee than the Appropriations Committee. We work together to solve problems and try to use taxpayer dollars wisely and justly,” said Simpson. “However, I am extremely concerned over the enormous cost of this package and the dangerous lack of oversight that Congress will have once the money is spent.” Simpson won passage of an amendment to restore ongoing Congressional oversight of funds not spent expeditiously by federal agencies. Simpson’s amendment requires federal agencies to come back to Congress for approval to spend or transfer funding that would occur in fiscal year 2011 and beyond. Prior to the passage of Simpson’s amendment, the legislation granted unchecked authority to the Executive Branch to re-allocate funding to other programs after the expiration of the 2010 fiscal year. “My amendment preserves the authority of Congress over the purse strings and stops the unchecked spending authority allocated to federal agencies under this bill,” said Simpson. “While I do not support the passage of this bill, I am grateful to have had the chance to make a bad bill slightly better.” Simpson continues, “The American public is asking for a real economic stimulus plan, and it should provide immediate support to our economy. This package was originally billed as an investment in transportation and infrastructure, an effort that I believe, if carefully crafted, could provide jobs and ensure a good return for the taxpayer’s money while promoting long-term economic growth. Instead, the legislation we considered today creates new, untested government programs and generates unsustainable funding levels for programs that do not immediately stimulate the economy. From where I stand, this is simply a government spending package, not an economic stimulus package. This is not the time to grow and create government programs, but a time to provide measureable economic growth.” The stimulus bill being considered by Congress will cost $825 billion. In 1993 the unemployment rate was around 7%, virtually the same as it is today, yet the proposed stimulus plan at that time contained only around $16 billion in spending. This bill provides enough spending to give every man, woman and child in America $2,700, yet will cost every household $6,700 in additional debt.
01.21.2009	Idaho Senator Mike Crapo and Congressman Mike Simpson were disappointed to learn that Sgt. Evan Vela did not make the list of pardons that President Bush made during his final hours as President. “My heart goes out to Sgt. Vela and his family,” said Simpson. “I know they worked hard to get this case in front of President Bush and had high hopes of receiving a Presidential Pardon. I will continue to work with the Vela family on this important matter.” Crapo, who advocated for the pardon again in a last-minute phone call to President Bush at Camp David over the weekend, said, “Sgt. Vela and his family have been down a long road regarding this matter, and I share in their disappointment over this outcome. As this case moves forward through the appeal process, I will continue to pursue every effort to ensure that Sgt. Vela receives fair and equitable consideration.” In his last hours in office, Bush did issue two commutations that pleased Simpson, Crapo and many other Members of Congress. President George W. Bush commuted the prison sentences of two U.S. Border Patrol agents, Ignacio Ramos and Jose Alonso Compean, who are both presently serving their terms. The two agents were tried for shooting a Mexican drug smuggler. Their conviction in 2006 generated widespread concern from Americans, who felt the agents were treated too harshly for simply doing their jobs. Agent Ramos was given an 11-year prison sentence, and Agent Compean received a 12-year sentence. Under the commutation, their prison sentences will expire on March 20. “I have joined my colleagues numerous times requesting a pardon for these two agents,” said Simpson. “They were serving and protecting their nation and in return, they were placed in the same jail with the criminals they’ve arrested, I am pleased their unjust sentence will come to an end soon.” “Protecting our borders is a top national security priority, and the men and women of the Border Patrol are on the front lines of that battle,” Crapo said. “As such, they must have our support as they perform their assigned duties to protect those borders.”
01.14.2009	Today the Idaho Congressional Delegation congratulated the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for their decision to remove the Northern Rocky Mountain Gray Wolf population from the federal list of endangered species. “Today’s decision to delist the Gray Wolf is a testament to the great people in the State of Idaho, Montana and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service working together to stabilize the gray wolf population,” said Congressman Mike Simpson, Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Environment. “With the State of Idaho’s wolf management plan in place, Idahoans can now begin to see improvements in the restoration of Idaho’s elk and other big game herds.” “The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service decision to delist wolves in many parts of the country, particularly in Idaho, is appropriate,” Senator Mike Crapo said. “While the experimental non-essential designation has been biologically successful for the wolves, the fact remains that there are impacts on the entire ecosystem, which of course includes Idaho’s elk herds and people such as agricultural producers. “I have great confidence in the ability of the State of Idaho and the Nez Perce Tribe to get it right regarding wolf management, meaning that the requirements of the Endangered Species Act will be met, wolf numbers will settle at a sustainable level and both wild and domestic animals will be factored into ongoing management policies. In addition, it is of note that Congress may soon approve the Omnibus Lands package, which includes a bill that Senator Craig and I cosponsored last year, the Gray Wolf Livestock Loss Prevention and Mitigation Act, to provide financial assistance for producers who suffer depredation from wolves,” Crapo added. “This has been a long time coming. As Governor, I strongly pushed for the delisting of wolves in our state. There is no doubt that wolves have been fully recovered in Idaho. We have a responsible state management plan ready to go that will adequately manage wolves within our borders. Idaho has the ability to manage wolves just as we do bears and cats. We can do this, and do it better than the federal government ever will,” said Senator Jim Risch. “As has been shown time and again, decisions about our wildlife and public lands are made best when they are made in Idaho - not in Washington, DC and not by a judge. The decision to delist wolves is a positive step forward and ensures the kind of local control we want and need,” said Congressman Walk Minnick. “I am confident that Idaho ranchers, sportsmen, scientists and leaders will successfully manage the health of wolves and other wildlife populations for years to come.” Today’s decision by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is scheduled to take effect 30 days after the publication of the rule in the Federal Register.
01.12.2009	Congressman Mike Simpson today announced his appointment to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development. This subcommittee has direct jurisdiction over many of Idaho’s interests, including the Idaho National Laboratory, Army Corps of Engineers, Bureau of Reclamation, and Bonneville Power Administration. Simpson is currently serving his fourth term as a member of the House Appropriations Committee. In addition to his appointment to the Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, he is also serving as the Ranking Member for the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and the Environment. “I am honored and grateful to receive appointments that are important to our state and nation,” said Simpson. “These subcommittees oversee issues that are critical to Idaho, including the Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho’s colleges and universities, and communities up and down the State. I look forward to using my seat on both of these subcommittees to ensure Idaho’s unique role in energy, water, and public land issues is advanced in way that is good for both our state and nation.” Over the last four years, Simpson has used his seat on the Energy and Water Development Subcommittee to help grow programs at INL, expand course offerings at Idaho’s colleges and universities, improve drinking and waste water facilities in numerous Idaho communities, and address the environmental challenges left over from our nation’s development of nuclear weapons. In addition, Simpson has used his role on the Subcommittee to become one of the leading advocates in Congress for expanding our nation’s use of existing nuclear energy technologies and developing a new generation of nuclear reactors for the future. Simpson said he will use his continuing role on the Subcommittee to further the work he has already started. “Over the past few years, we have put down a strong foundation for the future of nuclear energy and I intend to use my seat on this subcommittee to push forward with new reactors and new technologies that will help us meet the energy challenges we face,” said Simpson. “Nuclear energy offers us the best near-term energy technology for growing our economy and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.” “I look forward to representing Idaho’s interests while being a diligent guardian of the taxpayer as we consider all appropriations bills to fund the federal government,” concluded Simpson. Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development Jurisdiction Summary: · Department of Energy · Corp of Engineers · Bureau of Reclamation · Nuclear Regulatory Commission
01.12.2009	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women as official nominees to the United States military academies. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the Military Academies,” said Simpson. “I am always impressed by the quality and character of our youth in Idaho. Each person is a fine example of what our state has to offer. They are bright, articulate, and ready to serve.” Students were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extra-curricular activities. While a Congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance to the Service Academies, many of Idaho’s nominees are selected for an appointment. The following students were nominated to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; or the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York. Nominees are: BOISE Ryan Nelson – Air Force, Army Jace Greeson-Barreith – Air Force Olivia Clark – Air Force Courtney Sparks – Army Alexander Michel – Merchant Marine John Jozwik – Merchant Marine Ryan Nelson – Navy HAGERMAN Thomas Owsley – Air Force, Army, Merchant Marine, Navy HAILEY Jed Prall – Air Force, Navy Ashleigh Share – Navy TWIN FALLS William Kezele – Air Force, Army, Merchant Marine, Navy EDEN Matthew Phillips – Air Force, Navy POCATELLO Andrew Livermore – Army FIRTH Wade Ruston – Army, Merchant Marine, Navy IDAHO FALLS Joseph Groberg – Air Force Aaron Klinesmith – Army, Navy ST. ANTHONY Nate Tousley – Air Force REXBURG Austin Porter – Air Force, Army, Merchant Marine, Navy Fletcher Rydalch – Navy
01.08.2009	House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Republican Jerry Lewis today announced the House Republican Steering Committee has approved Ranking Member assignments for the 12 Appropriations Subcommittees; among these recommendations is Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson. Simpson will be the Ranking Member for the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies for the 111th Congress. Appropriations Ranking Members are the senior Republican Members on each of their respective subcommittees and serve as the Republican lead under Rep. Lewis on the issues within their subcommittee’s jurisdiction. “I am honored to be a Ranking Member on the Appropriations Committee,” said Simpson. “I’m eager and ready to take on the new challenges this role will bring. Much of the committee’s jurisdiction directly impacts Idaho and it will be advantageous to have a significant role in funding programs that support our public lands.” The Subcommittee on Interior and Environment has jurisdiction over funding for a number of programs critical to Idaho, including the Department of the Interior as well as agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency, the Forest Service, the Indian Health Service, and the National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, and Smithsonian Institute. This bill provides funding to preserve our nation’s national parks, fight wildfires, and upgrade communities’ wastewater infrastructure. “These Ranking Members are trusted and talented colleagues with excellent oversight and budgetary records. I have deep respect for their dedicated service to both this Committee and to the American people and look forward to working closely with them throughout the 111th Congress,” said Lewis. Other Ranking Members are as follows: Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies – Rep. Jack Kingston (GA-01) Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies – Rep. Frank Wolf (VA-10) Subcommittee on Defense – Rep. C.W. “Bill” Young (FL-10) Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development – Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ-11) Subcommittee on Financial Services – Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) Subcommittee on Homeland Security – Rep. Harold Rogers (KY-05) Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies – Rep. Todd Tiahrt (KS-04) Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch – Rep. Robert Aderholt (AL-04) Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies – Rep. Zach Wamp (TN-03) Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs – Rep. Kay Granger (TX-12) Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies – Rep. Tom Latham (IA-04)
01.06.2009	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Walt Minnick today introduced the Central Idaho Economic Development and Recreation Act (CIEDRA). The bill settles ongoing disputes over how to manage public land in Central Idaho by creating wilderness, releasing wilderness study areas, allowing for federal land transfers and providing for economic relief to residents in Custer and Blaine counties. Simpson, the author of the legislation, is pleased to have his fellow Idaho Congressman join him as an original cosponsor. “Walt knows first-hand the importance of CIEDRA and I’m thrilled he’s joining me in this quest. He understands CIEDRA is a good example of people with diverse interests coming together to create solutions that work for all parties. I’m proud of the bill, but mostly I’m proud of the individuals I’ve worked with over the years to create it.” Minnick said this is but the first example of the partnership the people of Idaho can expect from the state’s two Congressmen. “It is a true honor to join my friend and colleague in sponsoring a piece of legislation so important to Idaho. Mike deserves high praise for his work and for setting a new standard on the collaborative approach to wilderness legislation. I pledge to him and to the many others involved that I will do all I can to help pass CIEDRA.” Highlights of CIEDRA include: Three New Wilderness Areas totaling 318,765 acres · Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness - 110,438 acres of federal land in the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests will become the Hemingway-Boulders Wilderness. To be managed by the Sawtooth National Forest. · White Clouds Wilderness - 76,657 acres of federal land in the Sawtooth and Challis National Forests will become the White Clouds Wilderness. To be managed by the Sawtooth National Forest. · Jerry Peak Wilderness - 131,670 acres of federal land in the Challis National Forest and Challis District of the Bureau of Land Management Jerry Peak Wilderness. To be managed by the Challis BLM. Wilderness Study Area Released · 131,616 acres of BLM Wilderness Study Areas Released or USFS Recommended not made wilderness. · The following areas not declared wilderness have been adequately studied for wilderness and will be released to be managed as the Challis BLM, Sawtooth National Recreation Area or Salmon-Challis National Forest: · The Jerry Peak Wilderness Study Area. · The Jerry Peak West Wilderness Study Area. · The Corral-Horse Basin Wilderness Study Area. · The Boulder Creek Wilderness Study Area. Grants Provides grants to Custer County for Economic Development and the enhancement of recreational activities in non-wilderness areas. Land Transfers Provides for the transfer of certain public lands for important public purposes such as fire stations, low income housing, and city wells among other things
12.30.2008	Senator Mike Crapo and Congressman Mike Simpson are urging the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to grant swift approval to AREVA for construction of a uranium enrichment facility near Idaho Falls. The company filed an application today with the NRC for construction of the Eagle Rock Enrichment Facility in Bonneville County. If approved, construction could begin in 2011. Crapo, co-chair of the Senate Renewables and Energy Efficiency Caucus, said construction of the Idaho facility is critical to the nation’s goal of expanding renewable energy sources such as nuclear power. “Now more than ever, it is critical to develop secure, economically-feasible and clean supplies of domestic energy,” Crapo wrote in a letter to NRC Project Manager Breeda Reilly. “The Idaho enrichment plant will supply America’s existing operating fleet of nuclear power reactors and further augment the anticipated growth of new commercial nuclear power generation here in the U.S.,” he noted. Simpson, a member of the House Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee that funds our nation's nuclear infrastructure and loan programs, said the project means more good paying jobs for eastern Idaho. "At a time when our nation is experiencing a severe economic downturn, it is encouraging to see this license application, and the good paying jobs it will create, moving forward," said Simpson. "I have visited AREVA's facilities in France and have seen firsthand their commitment to safety, security, and their workers. I look forward to working with AREVA and my constituents in eastern Idaho over the coming months and years to make sure its potential is realized." “The enrichment technology that AREVA plans to construct and operate in Idaho has been demonstrated in Europe, and the NRC has already licensed an identical enrichment plant here in the United States,” Crapo continued. “It is important for the local community to have access to and understand the NRC licensing process,” Crapo added in calling on the NRC to quickly establish and make public a license review schedule. “The Eagle Rock Enrichment Plant will only enhance the existing the existing global recognition of Idaho’s place as a leader in nuclear technology development. The state’s history and success with the Idaho National Laboratory indicates that we can confidently ensure a long-term relationship with a responsible and responsive business partner like AREVA.” According to AREVA, the Eagle Rock Enrichment Facility will use advanced centrifuge technology to create fuel for nuclear energy production. AREVA Inc. is based in Bethesda, Maryland and is the leading U.S. nuclear vendor in energy transmission and distribution with 45 locations across the country and $2 billion in energy revenues during 2007. The facility at Eagle Rock 18 miles west of Idaho Falls could employ more than 200 people.
12.10.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted against H.R. 7321, the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act. During a time of economic crisis, supporting this flawed proposal, which showed no signs of allowing the domestic auto manufacturing industry to operate on its own merits long term, was irresponsible. Fundamental restructuring is necessary for the Big Three domestic auto companies to be competitive and relevant in the future, and on December 2, they presented to Congress their plans for restructuring and stated that without a large amount of government financial assistance they would not survive through the end of the year. While the plans included laudable goals, too few details were provided as to how the companies will actually achieve the restructuring and the savings they have promised. “We’ve been down this road before—in the early 1980’s Chrysler came to Congress requesting federal assistance and promising to change they way they did business,” Simpson said. “While Chrysler repaid their loan within three years, they never carried out the required restructuring. A generation later, Congress has apparently not learned its lesson, passing legislation that provides funding without ensuring real results.” Instead of allowing the companies to be restructured through the processes outlined in law and emerge more competitive, H.R. 7321 would put government bureaucrats in charge of determining how these companies would operate in the future. In addition, the bill does not require any concessions by labor groups, even though high labor costs are a significant factor contributing to the Big Three’s financial woes. “Like many Idahoans, I am very concerned about the sharp increase in unemployment that we’ve experienced in recent weeks,” Simpson said. “To help auto workers and their families, as well as those employed by companies that support the auto industry, the Big Three must become competitive again. But this bill does nothing to guarantee that the necessary restructuring will occur. Instead, it essentially nationalizes these private companies. This is a move I cannot support.” Instead, Congressman Simpson supports the GOP Alternative for the Auto Industry, which allows the Big Three to become competitive again without risking taxpayer dollars. Under the GOP Plan, which provides temporary government insurance instead of a taxpayer-funded bailout, the Big Three must lock in the restructuring they have promised in a matter of weeks, not months or years. Congress should instead establish firm benchmarks and a tight timeline for restructuring. For example, such benchmarks will require that by March 31, 2009 each company should reach an agreement whereby: · The companies’ creditors agree to a framework to reduce each company’s indebtedness by at least 1/3. · The UAW holds to concessions already made and further: · Concedes the elimination of Supplemental Unemployment Benefits; · Concedes elimination of the Jobs Bank Program; · Agrees to either reduce company retiree health care obligations or otherwise convert a portion of such obligations into equity; and · Agrees to reduce wages and benefits to the levels paid by non-Big Three manufacturers. “The challenges facing working families in Idaho are very sobering,” Simpson said. “In the midst of economic anxieties that our country has not faced for generations, they are struggling to pay their bills and worried about their job security, and employers are faced with laying off people right before the holidays or going out of business. Congress must stop throwing taxpayer money at these problems, choosing a short-term political fix instead of long-term solutions. Instead, we must work to fix problems so that the free market can work and remove the barriers that make it difficult for American families to prosper.”
12.10.2008	Idaho’s National Laboratory (INL) is tops in the nation when it comes to performance standards set by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). Senator Mike Crapo and Congressman Mike Simpson today applauded the work done by the site’s workers and said it should be seen as a national model for efficiency and cost-effectiveness for such federal research and development installations. Under DOE’s performance evaluation and management plan, the INL received an “A” rating of 97 percent---far surpassing the evaluations of other such plans at similar sites around the nation. DOE-Idaho Manager Beth Sellars told Laboratory Director John Grossenbacher that the decision to maintain “the contract term through September 2014 is also reflective of your improved performance and our confidence in Battelle Energy Alliance’s … ability to realize the DOE vision for INL.” “This ‘A’ rating is just the latest example of the superior work performed by the employees the Idaho National Laboratory,” Crapo said. “The nation looks to the INL for leadership and excellence in nuclear R&D and in the development of domestic alternative energy sources. This recognition is timely given the upcoming change in presidential administrations. Taxpayers, agency leaders and government officials alike see where the superior work is being performed—right here at the Idaho National Lab.” “This announcement is a testament to the exceptional work being done at INL by BEA and its Idaho workforce," said Simpson. "I offer my congratulations to BEA and its employees and look forward to working directly with them on another successful year in 2009." The Idaho National Laboratory conducts sciences and technology across a wide range of disciplines. As a multi-program laboratory, the INL plays a key role in ensuring the nation's security by applying its technical expertise to helping protect the country's critical infrastructure and preventing the spread of nuclear material. The INL was singled out for achievement in an international research and development effort to create an advanced nuclear energy technology called the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP). The NGNP will be a Generation IV nuclear system that will produce both inexpensive electric power and large quantities of cost-effective process heat to support the development of cleaner, more efficient domestic transportation fuels in the United States and reduce the nation's dependence on imported fossil fuel. The laboratory has also led the establishment of the Center for Advanced Energy Studies, a collaboration of the department, the state of Idaho, the laboratory and universities in Idaho and across the country. This center brings academia into the life of the laboratory in a substantive way and provides students and professors access to the laboratory's unique capabilities.
12.02.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is moving his Washington office. His new address will be 2312 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, D.C. 20515. The office move will occur on Wed, Dec. 3 and services from the DC office will be shut down for the afternoon, however, the office will re-open the next morning, Thurs., Dec 4. During the move, all four district offices will remain open and functional, but staff will have limited access to e-mail. “I’ve been frustrated that my office space has not been able to accommodate large groups of constituents who come to DC to discuss issues that matter to Idaho,” said Simpson. “The new office space in Washington will allow for larger groups of Idahoans to visit more comfortably and provide better access to the halls of Congress.” Simpson’s office addresses are listed below: Website: www.house.gov/simpson E-mail: www.house.gov/simpson/emailme.shtml Washington, D.C: 2312 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Phone: 202-225-5531 Boise: 802 W. Bannock, Suite 600 Boise, ID 83702 Phone: 208-334-1953 Twin Falls: 1341 Fillmore #202 Twin Falls, ID 83301 Phone: 208-734-7219 Pocatello: 275 South 5th Ave. #275 Pocatello, ID 83201 Phone: 208-233-2222 Idaho Falls: 330 Shoup Ave. #205 Idaho Falls, ID 83402 Phone: 208-523-6701
11.14.2008	The Federal Transit Authority has agreed to reject the Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA) waiver request of the “Buy American Act” to its federally funded procurement of at least 28 passenger rail locomotives. Idaho Senator Mike Crapo, Representative Mike Simpson and Boise Mayor David Bieter had asked that the FTA deny the waiver request because it could cost hundreds of American jobs, not only in Boise but across the country. “Buy America” requirements require transit agencies buying new equipment to demand American assembly and 60 percent American parts when using federal matching dollars. MotivePower, Inc. (MPI), which is based in Boise, was the only domestic bidder on the project with a fully compliant bid. A company based in Spain, Vossloh Espana S.A., also wanted to supply a bid, but without the waiver it was non-compliant in price and schedule with MotivePower. "This decision affirms our belief that MotivePower and its Idaho workforce produce a superior product and are rightfully entitled to the protections of the Buy America Act," said Simpson. "I am grateful the FTA declined this waiver request and happy to see these important jobs stay in Idaho." “We must protect jobs for Idaho families,” Crapo said. “It would be a travesty to use American taxpayer dollars and a loophole in American law to allow this sophisticated technology and the jobs related to it to be lost to overseas competitors. We are pleased with the FTA’s ruling.” "This is great news not just for MotivePower and for Idaho but for American jobs in general,” Bieter said. “I'm pleased that the FTA saw the wisdom of allowing U.S. companies to compete fairly. My hat is off to Sen. Mike Crapo and Rep. Mike Simpson for all their hard work to keep these jobs in Idaho." “We are very pleased with this news and express our great thanks to Senator Crapo, Congressman Simpson, Governor Otter, Mayor Beiter, all of the elected officials, labor unions and our U.S. suppliers who supported MotivePower and its employees in this process,” said Mark Warner, Vice President and General Manager of MotivePower. “We look forward to working with MBTA and we will hopefully now be able to finalize a deal to build locomotives in Boise.” In a letter today to the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority, Federal Transit Administration Deputy Administrator Sherry E. Little wrote the request for a waiver was being denied because “MBTA has not established sufficient grounds for a public interest waiver. MBTA has not argued that this procurement involves the introduction of significant new technology. Nor has it stated how a waiver would benefit the riding public.”
10.20.2008	Idaho Congressman Simpson participated in a House Budget Committee hearing today where Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, testified about the federal government’s response to the financial crisis facing our nation. Simpson expressed his concern about the government’s decision to use $250 billion to purchase senior preferred shares in U.S. banks and asked Chairman Bernanke to clarify how this program is in the taxpayer’s best interest. Last week the Department of Treasury announced a new Capital Purchase Program under which the government will use a portion of the money provided under the recently-passed economic rescue package to inject equity into U.S. banks in order to stimulate new loans. Nine major U.S. banks have already agreed to participate. Simpson asked Bernanke how the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve would ensure that banks would use the $250 billion to make new loans and thaw the credit market instead of simply padding their own books or using the money to buy out smaller financial institutions. “I’ve spoken to homebuilders, realtors, auto dealers, and bankers in Idaho who all say that if this program is not done right, we risk putting ourselves in another bad situation,” said Simpson. Bernanke also spoke about the important role that Congress’s response to the crisis has already played in helping to avoid a severe and crippling recession that would leave many Americans without work. “I am committed to protecting the economic security of retirees, families, and small business owners in Idaho,” Simpson said. “In that endeavor, Congress has an important oversight responsibility to make sure that our investment in our nation’s economic security pays dividends for hard-working taxpayers. I am carefully scrutinizing Treasury’s recent decision, and I will continue pursuing clear answers to the questions my constituents and I have about this new program.”
10.17.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today joined colleagues in sending a letter to Secretary Paulson and Fed. Chairman Bernanke requesting them to hold AIG accountable for hosting a lavish $440,000 retreat after receiving an $85 billion loan from the federal government. "Citizens are suffering from our current financial crisis and it is completely unacceptable that AIG or any other institute be allowed to misuse federal loans," said Simpson. "We must be certain that absolutely no taxpayer funds were used for AIG’s retreat." After the Federal Government provided a loan of $85 billion to AIG, the AIG executives hosted a lavish $440,000 retreat at the St. Regis Resort in Monarch Beach, California. The letter that will be sent to Paulson and Bernanke today currently has signatures from over 65 Members of Congress. The letter stated, "At a time when many of our constituents have serious concerns about their own financial security, we demand that you ensure that no taxpayer funds were used by AIG to host this retreat. If taxpayer funds were used, we demand that AIG repay the American people in full. It is crucial that the American people be able to trust the actions of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury."
10.09.2008	"The Framers of the Constitution left little room for interpretation when they penned the Second Amendment, which states, “A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms, shall not be infringed.” This single sentence has stood up for years to gun control advocates who have worked to erode its strength and change its meaning. Perhaps no greater victory took place this year, on June 26th, 2008, when for the first time in history, the United States Supreme Court ruled that the right to bear arms was indeed an individual right, not just a right of the National Guard, militias, or the privileged few who can afford personal security and bodyguards. "Decided 5-4, The District of Columbia v. Heller forced the D.C. city government to lift its draconian ban on personal handgun ownership within city limits which had stood for over 30 years. The gun ban, one of the strictest in the nation, must now be viewed as nothing short of a disaster, and serves as a perfect case study for the failure of gun control laws in this country. Washington, D.C. has repeatedly held the title of “Murder Capital of the United States,” and has consistently maintained one of the country’s highest violent crime rates. For years the law abiding citizens of the District have been barred from protecting their families and homes with a firearm, while criminals have run rampant throughout the city. "The Heller decision not only impacts Washington, D.C., but its reach will resonate from coast-to-coast, including Idaho. Every city must now accept this Supreme Court decision as law. It trumps any other law that unjustly restricts access to or ownership of firearms. Lawsuits are already underway and regulations are being revised across the country to repeal unfair laws similar to the D.C.’s. "Unfortunately, following the Supreme Court ruling, the D.C. government took immediate action to continue to deny its citizens access to firearms by placing additional restrictions on ownership requiring Congress to step in. "I am proud to tell you that I have cosponsored the Second Amendment Enforcement Act, which overwhelmingly passed 266-152 in the House of Representatives on September 17th. It ensured that D.C. residents’ Second Amendment rights were protected, as called for by the Supreme Court. Specifically, it repealed the ban on semiautomatic pistols and rifles; eliminated the regulation requiring that guns in the home be kept unloaded and either fitted with trigger locks or disassembled; abolished the city’s gun-registration requirements; and allowed D.C. residents to purchase guns in Maryland and Virginia. "I was pleased to see the House of Representatives act in a bipartisan manner to strongly affirm the rights of law abiding citizens’ to keep and bear arms. I am proud to tell you that my work on this legislation, and in support of gun rights in general, has again earned me A ratings from both the National Rifle Association and the Gun Owners of America. "As I continue to work and vote to protect gun rights in Idaho, and across the country, I will encourage my colleagues to remember that the criminal who uses the gun should be held responsible for the crime, not the gun itself. I will also continue to push for stricter penalties for those who use guns to commit crimes. Law abiding citizens should not be penalized because of the senseless and unlawful actions of a few."
10.08.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted to ensure that millions of middle class Americans won’t be subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) this year. Without this fix, the AMT, an outdated and arbitrary tax originally intended only for the very wealthy, threatens average Americans with increased and unpredictable tax burdens. “Our nation’s tax policy has reached a crisis point with regards to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). It is abundantly clear that the AMT no longer serves its original purpose,” said Simpson. “I fully support repealing this arbitrary and complicated tax system, but I do not believe that increasing taxes to compensate for the AMT is the correct solution.” In addition to supporting this temporary fix, Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3818, The Taxpayer Choice Act. H.R. 3818 comprehensively reforms our current tax system in order to permanently eliminate the AMT without increasing taxes to pay for tax reforms. The AMT allows the federal government to tax individuals at an arbitrary rate, regardless of the deductions and tax credits they may be able to claim. It was originally established in 1969 to ensure that multi-millionaires could not itemize their taxes away. Since then, inflation and economic growth have made many middle-class people subject to AMT. In 1970, the first year the AMT was implemented, 20,000 taxpayers paid the AMT. Without congressional intervention, 23 million people will be subject to the AMT this year, forcing middle class American families to pay more taxes than they otherwise would, and making it even more difficult for our economy to grow. “Taxpayers have the right to receive as much of their income as possible,” said Simpson. “Tax relief gives Americans back their own money, earned through hard work and sacrifice and it allows them the dignity of investing their money as they think best. In times of economic stress, this legislation is critical to creating an environment that supports job creation and economic growth for all Americans.” Congressman Simpson is also a cosponsor of legislation to permanently extend tax credits for families, teachers, and investors, and H.R. 510, the Tax Code Termination Act.
10.07.2008	Today, the nonpartisan Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA) Action Fund released its 2008 Congressional Report Card. Congressman Mike Simpson received an A. The Report Card grades every Senator and Congressman on his or her leadership and voting record on key Iraq and Afghanistan veterans' issues including the GI Bill, VA funding and mental health care. The Report Card recognizes the 110th Congress' unprecedented achievements on behalf of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans. A searchable version of the Report Card can be found at www.VeteranReportCard.org. “Taking care of our veterans must be a priority, they are willing to pay the ultimate sacrifice for our nation and I’m honored to be recognized in supporting veteran’s issues and benefits,” said Simpson.
10.03.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today issued the following statement about his vote in the U.S. House in favor of the economic rescue bill: “There is a lot of information about this bill floating around, some of which is incorrect. One misconception is that there are no taxpayer protection provisions in this bill - this is not true,” said Simpson. “I could not vote for legislation that did not protect taxpayers against loss at every turn. I am convinced this bill is an investment that will be recouped over time. If the money has not been paid in full, the bill contains provisions that require a tax on Wall Street to repay it, not the American family.” “No one is happy about this legislation, but I am convinced that action is a necessary evil in order to keep small businesses afloat, keep retirees from losing their life savings and help end the growing credit crisis we now face. Senator Larry Craig carefully examined the legislation pertaining to the situation our country faces and came to the same conclusion: we can not, in good conscience, allow ordinary Americans to suffer the consequences of the excesses of Wall Street.”
09.25.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauded the decision by congressional leaders to allow the moratorium on offshore drilling to expire on Sept. 30. As the energy crisis is continuing to take a toll on American families, Simpson has repeatedly pushed for a comprehensive solution that includes increased domestic production. “In the 25 years that the offshore drilling moratorium has been in place, our country has become more dependent on foreign sources of oil,” Simpson said. “I have long believed that a key part of any effort to free ourselves from our dangerous dependence on foreign oil should include the development of domestic sources of gas and oil.” The congressional moratorium on offshore drilling was originally put into place in 1982 and has been renewed annually by Congress through the appropriations process. On July 14, 2008, President Bush lifted the executive moratorium. “The American people have spoken loudly and clearly in favor of domestic energy production. Republicans have heard that call, and we have spent months putting pressure on House Democratic leadership to let this moratorium expire,” Simpson said. “I’m pleased that they have finally acquiesced to public opinion.” Simpson joined Republican colleagues during August in continuing to debate this issue on the floor of the House of Representatives and speaking with those present about the importance of energy independence. “While I applaud this important step toward energy independence, we all recognize that we can’t drill our way completely out of this problem,” said Simpson. “We must also continue working to improve conservation and efficiency, encourage the development of renewable and alternative energy technologies, and invest in nuclear energy.” Simpson is a cosponsor of a number of bills that provide an “all of the above” solution to the current energy crisis, including H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act. This legislation would encourage domestic oil production, cut red tape to increase refining capacity, provide incentives for development of alternative energy, and eliminate barriers to the expansion of nuclear power production.
09.24.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is carefully examining proposals to address our nation’s financial crisis in a timely and thoughtful manner. Although no legislation has been finalized on which to form an opinion, Simpson does not support the Administration’s initial proposal. "It is clear that our economy faces grave and unprecedented challenges," Simpson said. "I recognize that action must be taken to bring our economy back from the brink of disaster, but there are serious holes in the Administration’s proposal, and I have many questions that must be answered before I can even consider putting the taxpayer on the line." The Administration’s proposal would allow the federal government to purchase troubled mortgage assets from financial institutions at all levels throughout the country. By taking these troubled mortgages off the books of America’s banks and businesses, the proposal aims to restore confidence in the country’s entire financial system. "The threat of complete financial meltdown is very real, and it would have dire consequences on the jobs, savings, pensions, and opportunities of all Americans," Simpson said. "Any legislative response to this crisis must protect American families first, not corporate executives, and any vote I cast will be based on the best interests of Idahoans, not on the best interests of the fat cats on Wall Street." Simpson wants to ensure that any package would prevent taxpayer dollars from being used to reward poor performing executives. In addition, any legislation should ensure adequate oversight of efforts to address the crisis. "I am always mindful that when we reach into the government coffers, we are really reaching into the pockets of American taxpayers, who earned the money through hard work and sacrifice," Simpson said. "It is a sobering task to weigh the cost to the taxpayers of addressing this problem with the cost to all Americans, whose jobs and life savings would be in serious jeopardy if we did not take action. Congress should not make these decisions lightly, but should instead do so thoughtfully and with the best interests of the American people in mind."
09.24.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today urged House negotiators on the tax extenders legislation to include a four-year reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act in any final bill. Idaho Senators Mike Crapo and Larry Craig have secured inclusion of the reauthorization in the Senate version of the bill. Simpson’s letter stressed the importance of this funding to rural schools and communities. "As you may know, the decline in timber harvesting in the Pacific Northwest over the past two decades has created an enormous hardship on rural schools that relied upon revenue sharing to fund education. These schools are located in areas where the federal government owns the vast majority of the land. Therefore, there is very little tax base upon which to draw from for even the most basic services like roads, search and rescue, and education," wrote Simpson. Simpson continued, "It is important to understand that these funds are not handouts. Far from it, these funds are critical to the basic education of thousands of Idaho students. In fact, fully one-third of the budget for some Idaho schools comes from this program. They simply cannot absorb the loss of this program." In conclusion, Simpson praised Senate action and urged the House to accept the Senate language in any final bill. "The United States Senate has done the right thing through standing by these rural communities and extending this important program. I urge you in the strongest possible terms to agree to the inclusion of the Senate language in the final version of the tax extenders legislation," wrote Simpson. Simpson’s letter was address to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Charles Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Jim McCrery (R-LA). A complete copy of Simpson’s letter is available upon request.
09.24.2008	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson announced today that the House and Senate have agreed to an additional $3 million for the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Idaho. The money for the Games is included in H.R. 2638, the Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2009. “The Special Olympics World Winter Games are a tremendous honor and responsibility for Idaho, and this funding will help ensure their success,” Craig said. “I am pleased to be involved with this event and hope all Idahoans will join in this opportunity to showcase our State to the world.” “Idaho will hosting thousands of athletes and volunteers from around the world for the Special Olympics World Winter Games in a matter of months,” said Simpson. “The Host Committee has done a tremendous job in raising funds to prepare for this exciting event and this $3 million will help them make these Games an event of which Idaho can be proud.” “Senator Craig and Congressman Simpson have been relentless in their support of the 2009 World Games taking place in Idaho. Their hard work pursuing federal funding will help make these games a world-class event for the athletes, families, spectators and volunteers,” said Jim Schmit, Qwest Idaho President and Chairman of the Games Fundraising Committee. According to the organizers of the Games, holding the event in Idaho will require at least $28 million in total contributions, with the federal government’s share representing just a portion of the total needs. The event will attract up to 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. This will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the state of Idaho. Craig and Simpson are members of the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations which crafted this spending package. Once the bill is approved by the House and Senate, it will be sent to President Bush for his consideration.
09.23.2008	Earlier this year, as our once-booming economy began to slow down and families began to face the challenges of high energy costs and the possibility of foreclosure, layoffs, and diminished investments, Congress responded quickly by passing a $150 billion economic stimulus bill that put $600 into the pockets of most Americans. While we all like a quick infusion of cash in our bank accounts, this legislation was fundamentally flawed. A good economic stimulus package should not only provide adequate support to our economy in the short term, but it should also promote long-term economic growth by creating jobs that grow our economy. Like many Idahoans, I did not believe that the stimulus package adequately addressed the specific issues facing our economy. It was, in effect, simply a Band-Aid, not a fix. As Congress considers a possible second economic stimulus package this week, I am concerned that this bill will be no different. We should consider extending unemployment benefits for those who have recently been laid off, but, more importantly, we should strongly consider investments that provide jobs, not just benefits. The old adage about teaching a man to fish applies here: if we are going to pay tens—or even hundreds—of billions in taxpayer dollars to bolster our economy, we should use that money to ensure that hard-working Americans have jobs to go to every day. One significant way to create American jobs would be to put that money into transportation and infrastructure construction projects. Some naysayers have tried to say that it would take too long to get that money on the ground, but transportation groups in Idaho have assured me that they have millions of dollars in construction projects that are ready to go, sitting on the shelf just waiting for funding. If we would infuse our transportation system with $50 billion, we would jumpstart our economy in a way that puts a regular paycheck, not a one-time stimulus check, into the pockets of Idaho families. What is more, investing that kind of money into our transportation system would help us begin to address the critical infrastructure needs that are facing our nation in the 21st century. For centuries, our transportation system has been the backbone of our economy, and we are indebted to the visionaries, like Thomas Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt, and Dwight Eisenhower, who recognized the importance of a national transportation plan and had the courage to put that plan into action. Our ability to move goods and people safely and efficiently from place to place has made our economy the greatest in world history. But today that system is aging, reaching the end of its life in many cases or being stretched beyond what was originally intended. We must act now to meet the infrastructure needs of our cities, states, and nation in the future. A stimulus package that simply throws money at the problem could add tens of billions of dollars to our country’s mounting debt, forcing our children and grandchildren to pick up the tab. But a package dedicated to worthwhile transportation projects creates jobs in the short term and supports our economy in the long term, leaving our nation a better place for those who come after us. A safe, working system of roads, trains, waterways, and bridges allows farmers and manufacturers to get their goods to market and into American homes. To me, that seems like a worthwhile investment.
09.19.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announces new hire and staff changes within his Washington, D.C. staff. Simpson hired Nathan Greene to be his new Legislative Assistant. Greene is from Bainbridge Island, WA and graduated with a Bachelor’s Degree in Political Science from Principia College in Elsah, IL. Greene previously worked for then Congressman C.L. "Butch" Otter, and Senator Larry Craig. He will be handling issues that deal with Government Reform, Judiciary, Budget, Telecommunications, and Small Business. Nathan enjoys backpacking, golf and playing the piano. He was the captain of his college golf team and taught youth golf camps. "Nate brings a wealth of knowledge and experience to my staff," said Simpson. "I’m confident that constituents in Idaho will enjoy working with him and will benefit from his congressional know-how." Congressman Simpson’s Legislative Director (LD) Missy Small will be handling Agriculture and Natural Resources issues. Missy has been Simpson’s LD for almost two years. She is from Meridian, ID and while growing up was active in FFA. "Some of the most important issues to Idaho are issues that deal with Natural Resources, Energy, and Transportation," said Simpson. "Missy has a vast understanding of these and how they impact Idaho, she is a great champion for our citizens." In addition to Agriculture and Natural Resources, Missy will continue working on Energy, Environment, Water, and Transportation issues in Congressman Simpson’s Washington, D.C. office.
09.17.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 6842, which brings the Second Amendment rights for the citizens of Washington, D.C. in-line with the recent Supreme Court decision District of Columbia v. Heller. Idaho Congressman Simpson supported this legislation and it passed the House with a vote of 266-152. This legislation was necessary because the District of Columbia city government had been slow to enact the new requirements and created numerous new restrictions on handgun ownership after the Supreme Court decision. "Our country’s highest court ruled that all Americans have the right to bear arms, including those who reside within our nation’s capitol," said Simpson. "Congress needed to send the District of Columbia a message - they must adhere to the Supreme Court’s ruling." H.R. 6842 clarifies that the D.C. government may not "prohibit or unduly burden" the ability of individuals to possess firearms for self protection or other lawful purposes. It does so through four main provisions: It repeals the D.C. city ban on semiautomatic pistols and rifles. It eliminates the regulation requiring guns in the home be kept unloaded and either fitted with trigger locks or disassembled. It abolishes the city’s gun-registration requirements. It allows D.C. residents to purchase guns in Maryland and Virginia. D.C. law was previously one of the most draconian gun bans in the United States, and the Court’s decision reaffirmed the individual right of Americans to bear arms.
09.17.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 189 colleagues in voting against H.R. 6899, the only energy bill that Speaker Pelosi has allowed to come to the House Floor for debate. Instead of doing everything we can to address the energy crisis, Speaker Pelosi’s bill refuses to offer real solutions to the energy crisis and actually limits our ability to free ourselves from our dependence on foreign oil. Simpson and 147 other Members of Congress believe it is critical to debate H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, a bill that puts everything on the table, including domestic drilling, conservation, alternative resources and long-term solutions. "Americans are sick and tired of Washington’s political games, especially when it comes to addressing the energy crisis that directly impacts family budgets, businesses and our economy," said Simpson. "Thousands of Idahoans have contacted me, calling for an ‘all of the above’ solution, and still Speaker Pelosi won’t allow a real energy solution to be debated on the House floor. Instead, the Democrats believe that the American people aren’t paying attention, hoping they can pull the wool over their eyes with a bill that looks like a solution but does nothing to help them." "Perhaps if Speaker Pelosi is afraid of a comprehensive solution, she should allow each solution to stand on it’s own, allowing members to have their say on each issue: drilling, alternative resources, nuclear power, and conservation," said Simpson. "America deserves a real debate concerning all possible solutions." The facts about H.R. 6899, the Democrats’ energy plan: Permanently prohibits production within 50 miles of the shore. Nearly 80% of the oil in the Outer Continental Shelf would be off limits under this bill, including areas in Alaska where exploration is just starting; Virtually ensures that no new drilling will occur in the Outer Continental Shelf by refusing to provide states with a share of royalties collected by the federal government; Fails to allow environmentally sound oil production in ANWR, which has the potential to provide 5,475 barrels of oil per acre; Permanently prohibits oil shale development and refuses to expand nuclear energy capabilities; Eliminates the manufacturing tax credit that encourages major US oil companies to operate domestically, creating American jobs and limiting our dependence on foreign oil; Includes NO language to expand nuclear energy or develop new refineries in the US. The Facts about H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, which Pelosi won’t bring to the floor: Opens deep water ocean resources (3 million barrels of oil per day and 76 trillion cubic feet of natural gas); Opens the Arctic coastal plain (1 million barrels of oil per day); Allows development of oil shale resources (2.5 million barrels of oil per day); Cuts red tape to increase refining capacity; Provides tax incentives for purchasing more fuel efficient vehicles and improved energy efficiency; Establish a renewable energy trust fund using revenues generated by domestic production; Permanently extend the tax credit for alternative energy production, and; Eliminate barriers to the expansion of nuclear power production. "Over the past few months, House Democrats have used unprecedented and overbearing tactics to ensure that Republicans cannot bring any legislation up for debate that offers a viable energy solution," Simpson said. "I believe that H.R. 6566, the American Energy Act, would go far to addressing our nation’s energy crisis, and I am hopeful that we will finally have an opportunity to vote on it so that it cam be signed into law."
09.15.2008	"Americans receive the best healthcare in the world. However, many Idahoans are concerned about the rising cost of medical bills and health insurance, and we need to work to ensure that healthcare remains accessible to everyone. I don’t believe that a government-run national healthcare program, like those of Canada or Europe, is the answer to the challenges that the American system faces. Instead, I believe that we as a country need to work together to decide government’s role in healthcare, employer’s role, and most importantly, what will be the individual’s responsibility. At the same time, we must keep working to make healthcare available and affordable to all Americans. While improving access, we must also ensure that quality of care does not diminish. "During my time in Congress, I have supported a number of important health initiatives to increase access to healthcare for our country’s most vulnerable populations. I have also supported initiatives to make healthcare more affordable for our nation’s small businesses and families that are struggling to maintain healthcare coverage. "I voted in support of reauthorizing the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). This important program provides assistance to hard-working, low-income families to help them obtain healthcare for their children. Intervening early in children’s lives makes a huge difference in their growth and development. Unhealthy children have difficulty concentrating and often miss school, and studies show they have more trouble learning than healthy children. Children are America’s most vulnerable and precious resource, and we need to ensure they have the tools they need to succeed. "I have also voted to maintain our senior citizens’ access to their physicians and healthcare providers by supporting legislation to postpone the proposed cuts to doctors who see Medicare patients. This legislation also included provisions to protect seniors’ access to physical therapists, help community pharmacies struggling to keep their doors open, and provide assistance to rural providers in Idaho and across the country. I am also a strong supporter of efforts to reduce costs of prescription drugs. There is no disputing the fact that American consumers pay significantly more for the same prescription drugs as our counterparts around the world. I am a strong supporter of legislation that would allow reimportation of FDA-approved medications from Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan and pass along the savings to their American customers. "In addition, I have consistently supported efforts to reform medical malpractice laws to provide reasonable limits on medical liability awards that are currently causing higher health coverage costs and fewer health care providers. I have also supported legislation to allow small business owners to band together to obtain quality health care at a lower cost by taking advantage of the same economies of scale, flexibility, bargaining clout, and administrative efficiency that larger companies and unions enjoy under the ERISA law. "I also believe that our government has a responsibility to reform Medicare and Medicaid before spending on these important government programs becomes unsustainable. In less than ten years, spending on Medicare alone is projected to account for over 50% of all federal spending. We are rapidly reaching a financial crisis point, as spending on just Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will quickly consume more money than we currently spend to finance our entire government. "While I believe that Americans receive the best healthcare in the world, we need to continue to look for solutions to make healthcare more affordable and improve access to quality care for all Americans. Now more than ever, we must work together to find a bipartisan solution to reform healthcare."
09.12.2008	The Idaho Congressional Delegation is pleased to host the Eighth Annual Service Academy Day in Idaho on October 4th. Events will be held simultaneously in Boise and Coeur d’Alene. The purpose of these gatherings is to share information with students, parents, and counselors about the Congressional nomination process for the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY; the U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD; the U.S. Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, CO and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, NY. While a Congressional nomination is not needed to attend the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, representatives have been invited to share information about this school as well. This year forums are being held in Coeur d’Alene and Boise. Participants can meet with Academy Liaisons, Cadets, and Midshipmen and hear about each academy and learn how to apply for a Congressional Nomination. The Service Academy Day locations on Saturday, October 4th are as follows: Coeur d’Alene – Administration Building, 451 Government Way, Rooms 1A and 1B, 9:30 a.m. – Noon Boise – Timberline High School, 701 East Boise Ave., 9:30 a.m. – Noon "Our service academies have a long tradition of developing the minds and physical abilities of our brightest students to become officers in the service of the United States military," said Senator Larry Craig. "I consider my nominations to the military academies to be both a privilege and one of my most important responsibilities as a member of the United States Senate." "Our U.S. Service Academies have a long tradition of excellence in education and training of our nation’s leaders that includes not only those in the military, but those in business, technology, and industry," said Senator Mike Crapo. "Graduates receive an education that is second to none which will serve them to excel both in their military career and for graduate school and in the job market." "Academy nominations give Idaho's finest students the opportunity to serve their country, receive an elite college education and get a jump-start on a good career," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "Idaho consistently ranks among the top states in the quality of its nominations and we'll be looking to continue that record." "Idaho has plenty of students who have demonstrated the academic ability, athletic skill and moral caliber necessary to become our future military leaders," said Congressman Bill Sali. "It is a pleasure and an honor to be able to recognize students by nominating them to our service academies." For more information, contact: Mick Webster, Senator Craig’s office, (208) 523-5541 Karen Roetter, Senator Crapo’s office, (208) 664-5490 Linda Culver, Congressman Simpson’s office, (208) 734-7219. Kitty Kunz, Congressman Sali’s office, (208) 336-9831 The deadline to make application through one of the Idaho Delegation offices for the class entering in 2009 is October 31, 2008.
09.09.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Defense Appropriations bill. “Our local businesses and universities conduct critical research in the areas of national security and defense,” Simpson said. “Idaho company M2E Power is developing a breakthrough technology that will provide a more efficient energy source for our soldiers in the field. By funding projects like this, we can lighten soldiers’ packs by 20 to 30 pounds and reduce hazardous waste at the same time. This is just one example of how Idahoans contribute to our nation’s needs.” Idaho Programs included in the House Bill: $2,500,000 for Accelerator-Driven Non-Destructive Testing, Idaho State University. This funding will allow the Idaho Accelerator Center to continue development of penetrating and nondestructive testing techniques. This research is of immense value to the US Air Force. $1,800,000 for 3-D Technology for Advanced Sensor Systems, Boise State University. This funding will continue research to create 3-D integration and packaging solutions applicable to a general category of high performance sensor systems. The 3-D packaging approach offers the promise of a dramatic decrease in the system weight and volume, together with increased system performance. $1,500,000 for Hybrid Power Generation System, M2E Power, Inc. Approximately $57,000 is being spent per soldier, per year on batteries alone in the field. This funding will allow for continued research on breakthrough technology that will reduce the reliance on disposable batteries by developing compressed magnetic fields which can generate power. This will not only reduce federal spending needed for such batteries, but will considerably reduce related military logistics costs, reduce the amount of hazardous waste disposal costs for the toxic substances used in battery materials, and reduce the 20-30 lbs of extra battery weight that soldiers are currently required to carry for extended missions. $1,500,000 for Electric Grid Reliability/Assurance, Idaho National Lab. This funding will be used for the enhanced development of electric grid modeling, simulation and testing capabilities at the Idaho National Laboratory. This will allow our military and national security to better identify, prioritize, and coordinate the protection of critical infrastructure and key resources in order to prevent, deter, and mitigate the effects of deliberate efforts to destroy, incapacitate, or exploit them. $1,000,000 for Highly Corrosive-Resistant Alloy Joining for Nuclear Applications, Premier Technology. With this funding, Premier Technology will develop and test novel prototype design-for-manufacturing methods, flexible automated welding and inspection technology for application in submarine nuclear reactor propulsion systems. The new joining techniques for the structures will reduce the requirement for inspection, overhaul and maintenance for the Navy's next generation of nuclear submarines.
09.03.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson and Oregon Congressman Earl Blumenauer are joining forces to bring a bi-partisan Transportation and Infrastructure Forum to the Treasure Valley. Both members of Congress bring unique perspectives to issues and challenges facing our nation as we plan for future infrastructure throughout our nation. Invited participants include elected officials and government leaders, representatives from business and industry, the environmental community, philanthropy, and other key stakeholders in the Treasure Valley as well as other parts of the state. Who: Congressman Mike Simpson (R-ID), Congressman Earl Blumenauer (D- OR), Local Leaders and Stakeholders When: Thursday, September 4, 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. Where: Idaho Association of REALTORS, 301 S. Capitol Blvd, Boise, Idaho (corner of Capitol and Front Street) Agenda: 10:00 am Opening Remarks—Congressman Simpson 10:10 am Remarks from local elected leaders 10:20 am Presentation by Representative Blumenauer 10:30 am Public Comments
08.14.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced that he will return to Washington, DC early next week to take part in the efforts of House Republicans to call for a vote on domestic oil and gas production immediately. Simpson will join several of his House colleagues in calling on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to immediately call the House of Representatives back into session so it can deal with high gas prices. “I have been proud of my Republican colleagues who have remained in Washington trying to force the House back into session and I am looking forward to joining them next week,” said Simpson. “While American families are hurting from high gas prices, Speaker Pelosi has put the House in recess. Republicans are ready to vote right now on legislation that would address high prices by every means possible – drilling, conservation, renewables, and anything else that will help make our nation energy independent.” Earlier this month, the Democrat led House of Representatives was forced into adjournment by Speaker Pelosi in order to avoid voting on legislation intended to wean our nation off middle-east oil. When Republicans remained in the House chamber, she ordered the C-Span cameras to stop filming, shut off the microphones, and turned out the lights. House Republicans have remained, however, and have engaged in daily discussions with constituents who are coming to the House floor to hear directly from their elected officials. Simpson will join these daily discussions next week. “It is time for the House of Representatives to get back to work and for House Democrats to allow an open debate and vote on expanded domestic oil and gas production,” said Simpson. “I am sick and tired of sending hundreds of billions of dollars a year to the tyrants who both control our oil supply and fund our enemies. The American people are demanding action – unfortunately House Democrats are unwilling to act.”
08.14.2008	Here are some of the issues, meetings or events that Congressman Mike Simpson has on his agenda for the Magic Valley Area on Thurs. Aug. 14. His schedule is subject to change and statements may not be issued for all the items listed. This advisory is issued for media planning purposes only. Any listed times are local, if you need assistance or more information please contact Nikki Watts at 208-863-0674. Thurs., Aug. 14 9:00-10:30a.m. Simpson will join Jerome County Commissioners on a tour of the North Rim Park to learn more about the project. For more information contact Commissioner Charlie Howell at 208-644-2700. 11:00-11:30a.m. Congressman Mike Simpson will present "Women in Congress" book to the Jerome County Library. The book is a vast history of the women who have played a significant role in our history. (100 East Avenue E, Jerome, ID). 12:00-1:00 p.m. Congressman Simpson will speak to the Jerome Chamber of Commerce and the public is invited. For more information the Jerome Chamber of Commerce at 208-324-2711. The no-host luncheon will cost is $8. and will be held at El Sombrero Restaurant (143 W. Main, Jerome, ID).
08.01.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, praised passage of the FY09 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations, HR 6599. The bill contains a record level of funding for programs for America’s veterans and military construction projects. “Our military troops and veterans deserve the best possible treatment and care, and this bill goes a long ways to addressing those needs.” Simpson said. “It will improve access to medical services, increase the travel reimbursement rate to help veterans cope with high gas prices, and provides funding to improve our military and VA facilities across the country.” This legislation provides critical funding for military construction and housing as well as veterans administrative and health programs. The Veterans Health Administration estimates they will treat more than 5.8 million patients in 2009 including more than 333,275 veterans of Iraq and Afghanistan (40,000 more than 2008). Funding will include: · Medical Services: $30.9 billion to improve access to medical services for all veterans. · Medical Facilities: $5 billion, including a $300 million increase for on-going maintenance and renovations of existing facilities to address identified shortfalls and to ensure the Department’s facilities remain capable of delivering world class medicine. The Department currently estimates a maintenance backlog of over $5 billion. · Mental Health and Substance Abuse: $3.8 billion for specialty mental health care and $584 million for substance abuse programs. · Medical and Prosthetic Research: $500 million for research to help improve the quality of life for injured and aging veterans and to conduct trauma and mental health research. · Construction: $1.9 billion to fulfill the Department’s commitment to fund recommendations made by the Capitol Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES), which was established to look at facilities and determine their construction needs. · Beneficiary Travel: Increases the beneficiary travel reimbursement rate from 28.5 cents per mile to 41.5 cents per mile. · Assistance for Homeless Vets: $130 million for the homeless grants and per diem program, rejecting the President’s $8 million cut and the same as 2008, including $32 million to hire additional personnel for the HUD-Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing Program. · Military Housing: $3.2 billion to further eliminate inadequate military housing. · Quality of Life Initiative: $336 million to continue a quality of life initiative for troops and their families. “This legislation addresses many critical needs to better serve our military troops and veterans,” said Simpson. “There is no better way to honor our troops than to ensure that they have the best possible care and treatment when they return home, and this bill goes a long way to doing just that.” This legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 409-4 and will next be considered by the U.S. Senate.
07.30.2008	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of legislation that will improve access to medical care for rural veterans. HR 1527, The Rural Veterans Access to Care Act, authorizes the Department of Veterans Affairs to allow veterans living in highly rural areas to receive covered services through non-VA providers. The bill defines a highly rural veteran as one who lives 60 miles from VA primary care services, 120 miles from the nearest VA facility providing acute hospital care, or more than 240 miles from the nearest VA facility providing tertiary care will be eligible. This will prevent rural veterans from having to travel great distances to visit the VA center and allow them instead to be able to receive primary health care in their own community. Simpson stressed the importance of this legislation to veterans who are unable to travel long distances for medical care. “Under the current system, many of Idaho’s rural veterans have to travel long distances to visit their nearest VA medical facility,” Simpson said. “Because many of our veterans are elderly and unable to make the trip on a regular basis, they have trouble receiving needed medical care. This bill will allow veterans to receive care close to home, in their own communities.” HR 1527 has been approved by the House Veterans Affairs Committee and is currently awaiting consideration on the House floor.
07.30.2008	Today Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in congratulating the Special Olympics on its 40th Anniversary. Simpson is a cosponsor of this resolution, which recognizes the contributions and opportunities the Special Olympics provides to its participants. “I am proud to join my Colleagues in recognizing this unique organization for the 40 years of service and commitment to its athletes,” said Simpson. “I would like to commend the organization and the thousands of volunteers and coaches who donate their time and energy to support this program.” Special Olympics provides year-round sports training and athletic competition for athletes. In addition, every two years, athletes from all over the world come together to compete in the Special Olympics World Games. Idaho is hosting the Special Olympics World Winter Games in February 2009. Congressman Simpson, a member of the Appropriations Committee, worked with Senator Craig and the members of the House and Senate Appropriations Committee to secure $7.5 million in federal funding for the World Games in Idaho. “Idaho is proud to host the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games. As an honorary co-chair of the Winter Games, I have been privileged to work closely with the Special Olympics and its staff and have seen first-hand their dedication and commitment.” Simpson said. The 2009 Idaho Games are expected attract more than 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. This will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the state of Idaho.
07.24.2008	Congressman Mike Simpson traveled to Iraq last weekend to see first-hand the progress that the U.S. military and their Iraqi partners are making in the country. While there, he met with Ambassador Crocker, General Petraeus and Members of the Iraqi government and received updates on the situation in Iraq. “The surge is clearly working. It is impossible to deny that our military troops and our Iraqi partners have made great strides in fighting the insurgents and improving the security situation on the ground.” Simpson said. “The situation has visibly improved from the last time that I visited the country in 2004—violence is down and the political situation is getting better.” Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, joined Full Committee Chairman David Obey (D-WI), Defense Subcommittee Chairman John Murtha (D-PA), and three other members of the Appropriations Committee as part of a bi-partisan Delegation to Iraq. He received personal briefings from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker who briefed the delegation on the progress they were making in battling insurgents and the increased role that the Iraqis were playing both military and politically. In addition, he met with various U.S. aid agencies regarding the reconstruction and development work that is occurring in the country. Simpson also met with military troops, including troops from Idaho. “Our troops are doing an outstanding job in Iraq, and it is critical that we at home continue to support them and provide them with the tools and equipment they need to get the job done.” Simpson said. “We are grateful for their service and want them to know that Americans at home support them in their mission.”
07.17.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives voted on H.R. 6515 today. While the bill gave lip service to domestic drilling, it made no advances to do so, therefore, Congress rejected the measure and is holding out for an energy bill that offers the American public real relief at the pump. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson would love to see Congress pass an energy bill with some teeth, such as H.R. 6384, the Americans for American Energy Act. Simpson is a cosponsor of this bill and feels it is a comprehensive solution to our energy crisis. H.R. 6384 would allow for responsible new oil and gas production on federal lands, improve our refining capacity, renew our commitment to nuclear power, and invest in alternative energy sources for the future. "Ultimately, a real, long-term answer to the energy crisis will require the development of an alternative energy source that will replace fossil fuels," said Simpson. "However, the truth is that while we can’t drill our way out of this problem, increasing domestic oil production is a necessary part of the immediate solution." For nearly a decade Simpson has been an advocate for alternative energy resources. He supports nuclear power, increasing domestic oil production, and lessening our dependence on foreign oil. Not only would H.R. 6384 allow for new production of oil and gas in ANWR and the OCS and through oil shale production, but it also ensures that all federal revenues would fund efforts to boost conservation and efficiency and fund and incentivize the research and development of clean, renewable energy technologies. The Americans for American Energy Act addresses long term solutions and authorizes the start of construction for new nuclear power plants by 2010 and requires the NRC to complete rulemaking on the recycling of spent nuclear fuel within 2 years. Under current law, Cuba is allowed to drill closer to the United States than our laws allow us to drill, so H.R. 6348 addresses this issue and gives coastal states the right to determine whether or not they want energy production up to 100 miles off their shores and would establish an equitable revenue sharing program with the states. "High gas prices are the obvious result of our nation’s energy crisis, but we should be very concerned about the security implications of our dangerous dependence on foreign sources of oil," said Simpson. "Most energy companies in the world are government owned and that means that most of the $9 million a day that Americans spend on gasoline is going to support governments that we may not consider to be allies. This dependence must change."
07.11.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues in sending a letter to the Justices of the Supreme Court regarding the opinion recently issued in Kennedy v. Louisiana. On June 25, 2008, the Court ruled that the death penalty for child rapists is unconstitutional. Simpson and his colleagues are requesting the Justices to reexamine the factual basis for the majority opinion and urged them to withdraw the opinion and reconsider the case. “Parents often ask me to do all I can to keep our kids safe,” said Simpson. “I think we must hold people who commit these unspeakable heinous crimes responsible for their actions. That is why it is critical the Supreme Court reconsider its decision in this case, and take all of the facts into consideration.” The letter, signed by 85 Members of Congress and hand delivered yesterday, expresses concern that the central factual basis for the majority opinion was incomplete and inaccurate. According to the majority opinion, “[t]he evidence of a national consensus with respect to the death penalty for child rapists shows divided opinion but, on balance, an opinion against it.” However, Congress, as representatives of the people, has overwhelmingly passed legislation making the death penalty the maximum punishment for child rapists. The letter outlines the history of congressional support for this provision and asks that the Court reconsider its decision with this support in mind. “Like many Idahoans, I disagree with the Supreme Court’s assertion that the death penalty is an unconstitutional punishment for these horrific crimes,” Simpson said. “The evidence clearly shows that there is national consensus in this issue, and I am hopeful that the Court will reconsider the case in light of this fact.”
06.26.2008	On March 9, 2007, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals declared the District of Columbia’s gun ban unconstitutional. Today, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled the District of Columbia’s handgun ban violates the Second Amendment. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson applauds the Court’s decision and issued the following statement. “Gun ownership in America has been a recognized right under our Constitution since its ratification,” said Simpson. “Throughout history, Congress has explicitly affirmed that the Second Amendment is not limited to militias, but is in fact an individual right and I’m pleased the Americans who live in the District of Columbia will now enjoy this right.” Simpson added his support to an amicus brief urging the U.S. Supreme Court to recognize the Second Amendment right to bear arms as an individual right. The brief garnered the support 250 Congressmen, 55 Senators, and the President of the Senate, Dick Cheney.
06.25.2008	Congressman Mike Simpson will host an open house for the public to visit his new Idaho Falls office on Tuesday, July 1. Simpson and his staff will be at the event. "I’m looking forward to meeting with constituents and listening to their concerns first hand," said Simpson. "The House schedule requires me to spend a significant amount of time in Washington, so I really enjoy it when I get an opportunity to sit down with Idahoans face to face." The new office is located at 330 Shoup Ave, Suite 205 in the US Bank Building, downtown Idaho Falls. The Open House will be held on Tuesday, July 1 from 4-6:00 p.m. For more information contact Congressman Simpson’s Idaho Falls office at 208-523-6701.
06.25.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is hosting a Funder’s Fair at the College of Southern Idaho in Twin Falls. The event will take place on Tues., Aug. 5, 2008. Registration begins at 9:30 a.m. and the last workshop ends at 5:00 p.m. The CSI cafeteria will be open for lunch or bring your own. The Funder’s Fair is a one-day workshop devoted to bringing federal and state agencies, and private entities to rural communities in order to provide information about funding that is available for various programs. The public is invited to come and learn about funding options that may be available for their organizations. "By creating the Funder’s Fair, we are able to answer many questions for individuals seeking funding for their organization," said Simpson. "This one-day workshop helps people navigate through the process to find what funding options best match their needs." This Funder’s Fair will have several informational booths that will be open to the public, but space is limited to attend the work-shops that are available so you must RSVP to Linda Culver in Congressman Simpson’s Twin Falls Office at 208-734-7219 or The workshop agenda follows, remember you must RSVP to attend these: 9:30 – 10:00 Registration 10:00 – 10:15 Opening Remarks 10:30 – 12:30 Grant Writing Tips and Techniques Monica Kessel, College of Southern Idaho 1:00 – 1:30 USDA Rural Development 1:45 – 2:45 Foundation Board, M.J. Murdock Charitable Trust, Paul G. Allen Foundation, Idaho Community Foundation 3:00 – 3:30 US Housing and Urban Development 3:45 –4:15 What is the Resource Conservation and Development Council? 4:30 – 5:00 Local Highway Technical Assistance Council Linda.culver@mail.house.gov. The Informational Booths with representatives will be available to answer questions are: U.S. Economic Development Administration U.S. Army Corps of Engineers USDA NRCS Environmental Finance Center Idaho Department of Commerce Idaho Division of Environmental Quality Idaho Department of Transportation Idaho Department of Lands Idaho Federal Surplus Program Idaho Department of Parks and Recreation Idaho Commission on the Arts Idaho Humanities Council Serve Idaho The Steele Reese Foundation US Bank Corp Wells Fargo Bank Idaho Heritage Trust Idaho Children’s Trust Idaho State Historical Society Idaho Housing and Finance Association
06.23.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored legislation to reduce energy prices and improve our energy independence by developing domestic sources of oil. H.R. 6107, the American Energy Independence and Price Reduction Act, would open the Coastal Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to drilling within 25 months. "Our country has a crippling dependence on foreign sources oil," Simpson said. "As long as we refuse to develop domestic sources of oil, we continue to threaten our own nation’s security by increasing our dependence on a volatile, foreign-based energy supply." There are currently billions of barrels of oil in ANWR, in the Outer Continental Shelf, and on federal lands that hold oil and gas reserves, but current law forbids oil and gas leasing in many of these areas. New technologies allow for oil and gas exploration and production with little impact on the environment, leaving a very small footprint while providing for the needs of fish and wildlife. H.R. 6107 opens 2000 acres of ANWR—one-hundredth of one percent of the wildlife refuge—to development and ensures that environmental regulations and restrictions are in place. Any revenue from the ANWR leases would be used to develop alternative and renewable energy sources. "The energy crisis we face is a direct result of a poor energy policy that has been in place for decades. Reducing energy prices long term will require a comprehensive solution," Simpson said. "Developing domestic sources of oil must be a key part of this effort, as should advancing new nuclear energy technologies, conservation, and increasing our investment in alternative fuel sources." The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that there is enough oil in ANWR to replace all the oil that Americans currently buy from Venezuela for 30 years.
06.18.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of $1.25 million for the City of Boise’s geothermal system expansion project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy next year. Simpson also announced the inclusion of over $100 million in increases for the Idaho National Laboratory as part of the same legislation. “Earlier this year I met with Mayor Bieter, John Tensen, and President Kustra to determine how I might help them meet their shared vision for Boise’s geothermal system. This funding is the culmination of their efforts and I am thrilled it will help extend the geothermal system to Boise State University,” said Simpson. “In an era of tightening energy supplies and concerns about climate change, I commend the City of Boise and Boise State University for their leadership in expanding this renewable, non-emitting source of heat when other communities are turning to fossil fuels to meet their energy needs.” "With energy prices so high, expanding the use of our existing geothermal resource is exactly the type of common sense investment we should be making. Geothermal is clean, it's available and it works. My hat is off to Congressman Simpson for delivering these important funds and to BSU President Kustra for partnering with the city on this request,” said Boise Mayor Dave Bieter. “Introducing geothermal heating to campus is integral in making Boise State a showcase for sustainable development,” said Boise State President Bob Kustra. “This locally available, renewable resource will not only provide heat for more than 2 million square feet of buildings one day, it could also open up new research opportunities for our students and faculty. We thank Rep. Simpson and the entire Idaho congressional delegation for their continued support in making this possibility a reality.” The Geothermal Expansion Project would extend the existing system to facilities at Boise State University and encourage development of non-university areas along Capitol Boulevard. Boise State University is already making improvements to existing buildings that would allow them, and future buildings, to utilize geothermal heat. Total project funding is estimated at $4.3 million with the City of Boise and the federal government sharing the costs. In addition to the geothermal funding, the Energy and Water Development bill including significant funding for Idaho initiatives including: · A $46 million increase for Idaho National Laboratory facilities over the President’s request. Total Idaho Facilities Management funding is targeted at $150 million. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, and equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. · A $130 million increase for the Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems program bringing total funding to $200 million. $196 million of this funding is targeted to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant which will be built at INL. · $10 million for upgrades to the Advanced Test Reactor. · A $40 million increase over the President’s request for cleanup activities at INL bringing total cleanup funding to $472,124,000.00. · $1 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. · $1.25 million for the City of Boise’s expansion of its geothermal system to Boise State University · $1 million for Medical Isotope Production using accelerators at Idaho State University. Simpson also announced $4 million in funding for INL’s Power and Cyber Systems Protection Program as part of a separate Department of Homeland Security funding bill. “The funding increases in this bill represent a complete endorsement by Congress of the significant contributions INL’s workforce and leadership are making to our energy and national security,” said Simpson. “This bill provides a substantial boost to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the development of advanced gas reactor technology. It also places a significant investment in upgrades to extend the life of the Advanced Test Reactor. Nuclear energy research and development at INL are well served in this bill.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides approximately $33 billion in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several independent agencies. The Energy and Water Appropriations bill now heads to consideration by the full Appropriations Committee where approval is expected next week.
06.18.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today announced the inclusion of substantial increases in funding for the Idaho National Laboratory and the Idaho Cleanup Project as part of legislation funding the Department of Energy in Fiscal Year 2009. Simpson also announced the inclusion of $4 million in funding for INL as part of the Fiscal Year 2009 Department of Homeland Security funding legislation. “The funding increases in this bill represent a complete endorsement by Congress of the significant contributions INL’s workforce and leadership are making to our energy and national security,” said Simpson. “In concert with the Lab’s leadership and workforce, I have been pushing and pushing for years to improve the facilities at INL and see some new buildings rising in town and on the desert. I am now more hopeful than ever that significant infrastructure improvements will soon be a reality.” "I want to thank Congressman Mike Simpson, the other members of the House Appropriations Committee and their staff for this vote of confidence in the direction of the INL and some of its major programs. The budget increases for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the INL infrastructure account will help the INL play a leadership role in our nation's energy future,” said Admiral John Grossenbacher, INL’s Laboratory Director. Among its many provisions, the Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill includes: · A $46 million increase for Idaho National Laboratory facilities over the President’s request. Total Idaho Facilities Management funding is targeted at $150 million. The additional funding is available for a variety of uses including new buildings, renovation of existing buildings, and equipment purchases, and the Advanced Test Reactor’s operation as a National Scientific User Facility. · A $130 million increase for the Generation IV Nuclear Energy Systems program bringing total funding to $200 million. $196 million of this funding is targeted to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant which will be built at INL. · $10 million for upgrades to the Advanced Test Reactor. · A $40 million increase over the President’s request for cleanup activities at INL bringing total cleanup funding to $472,124,000.00. · $1 million for equipment purchases at the Center for Advanced Energy Studies at INL. · $1.25 million for the City of Boise’s expansion of its geothermal system to Boise State University · $1 million for Medical Isotope Production using accelerators at Idaho State University. Simpson also announced $4 million in funding for INL’s Power and Cyber Systems Protection Program as part of a separate Department of Homeland Security funding bill. “This bill provides a substantial boost to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the development of advanced gas reactor technology,” said Simpson. “It also places a significant investment in upgrades to extend the life of the Advanced Test Reactor. Nuclear energy research and development at INL are well served in this bill.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides approximately $31 billion in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several independent agencies. “Chairman Visclosky and my colleagues on the Committee are demonstrating a genuine support for the future of the INL’s research mission in this bill and making a firm commitment to ongoing cleanup activities,” said Simpson. “I’m grateful for the time they have spent learning about INL and the important work done in eastern Idaho.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill now heads to consideration by the full Appropriations Committee where approval is expected next week.
06.17.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced today that he has secured $3.3 million for four Idaho initiatives, including $1 million for the Idaho Meth Project, in the Fiscal Year 2009 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill. “Governor and First Lady Otter brought this project to my attention last year and I was immediately sold on its importance to Idaho and its potential for keeping our state’s kids off meth,” said Simpson. “The sad reality is that meth continues to rob too many Idahoans of their money, their futures, and their lives. I am hoping this infusion of federal funding will help the Idaho Meth Project impact the lives of more Idahoans in a positive way and turn them away from the life-sapping scourge of methamphetamine.” “The Governor and I appreciate all the hard work Congressman Simpson is doing to help educate Idahoans about the dangers of methamphetamine,” said First Lady Lori Otter. “Every single day the Meth Project is positively influencing the lives of our state’s children while fighting the devastating impacts of meth. I’m pleased Congressman Simpson secured this critical funding for this extremely necessary project.” In addition to the funding for the Idaho Meth Project, the legislation includes the following Idaho funding: · $350,000 for Boise State University’s research into improved hydrologic modeling of water resources for snow-dominated regions. Funding is provided through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. · $350,000 for Idaho State University’s Boise Center Aerospace Laboratory (BCAL) Watershed Modeling Utilizing LiDAR project. Funding is provided through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. · $880,000 for the Idaho State Police participation in the Criminal Information Sharing Alliance Network. Funding is provided through the Department of Justice’s COPS Grant Program. “The Idaho initiatives included in this bill will help enhance educational opportunities in Idaho’s universities, improve our utilization of natural resources, and expand the investigative tools of the Idaho State Police,” said Simpson. “This funding is being targeted toward state-owned, state-run institutions with a proven record of success and wise-use of precious taxpayer dollars.” The Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations bill now heads to consideration by the full Appropriations Committee where approval is expected in the next two weeks.
06.06.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Bill FY09. “In Idaho there are many programs that really make a difference, and I’m happy to help support them,” said Simpson. “We must fund education programs if we are going to continue to be the world leader. This bill contains funding for our nation’s education programs and health care services that will help lead to a better way of life and a more prosperous future.” Boise/Treasure Valley Programs in the House bill include: · The Discovery Center of Idaho Expansion; Discovery Center of Idaho to create a new model of "hands-on" science center and develop a new approach to bridging the gap in science and technology education particularly for the underserved. ($300,000) · Children’s Health Services Expansion; St. Luke’s Regional Medical Center, Ltd. to complete the dedicated pediatric surgical suites and support areas for the nearly 3000 pediatric surgeries performed at St. Luke's each year. ($300,000) · Life’s Kitchen: Culinary Training for At-Risk Youth to become active members of society at the same time teaching life skills, giving kids a second chance at life. ($150,000) · Idaho SySTEMic Solution: Plant Early for STEM Learning (science, technology, engineering, & math); Boise State University is a nationally relevant, hands-on, project-based STEM learning system (science, technology, engineering, & math) designed to spur achievement and confidence among elementary-age learners and their teachers. ($200,000) CSI/Magic Valley: · College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program will provide funding to develop curriculum, implement new post-secondary educational-technical training degrees and programs in the fields of hi-tech manufacturing and engineering. ($300,000) ISU/Idaho Falls/Upper Valley: · ARTKade; would stimulate and re-awaken young people's interest in the visual arts by using interactive learning, computer technology and hands on festival style art projects to capture their imaginations and redirect them to art education. ($300,000) · Idaho Oral Health Institute; Idaho State University to provide a center for oral health education, research, and clinical practice in Idaho and the Pacific Northwest. ($350,000) · Construction/Renovation Project at Madison County Memorial Hospital; Madison County Memorial Hospital to provide funding to expand the inpatient and outpatient surgeries at the hospital. ($400,000) National Programs in the House bill include: · Pell Grants: Provides $17.3 billion to help more than 5.7 million low- and middle-income students gain access to a higher education, an increase of 24,000 students over fiscal year 2008. · Title I Grants for Low-Income Students: Provides $15 billion to help support schools in high-poverty areas that have been identified for improvement, corrective action, or restructuring for failing to meet NCLB standards. · Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) Part B Grants: Provides $11.6 billion in grants to help States and localities pay for the rising costs of special education for 6.8 million children with disabilities. · TRIO : Includes $868 million to provide TRIO provide effective outreach and support services that encourage low-income, potential first-generation college students to enter and complete college. Under the bill, over 800,000 students will benefit in fiscal year 2009. · Rural Health: Includes $293 million for rural health care programs. These programs support more than 1,200 small, at-risk rural hospitals, create health care networks for more than 775,000 rural residents in underserved communities, providing access to emergency defibrillation devices, and support rural health research centers and State rural health offices. · Dental Health: Provides $15 million within the Maternal and Child Health (MCH) block grant and the allied health program. These grants will expand access to oral health services by encouraging more dentists to practice in shortage areas, expanding or establishing dental health services in community-based facilities, expanding dental residency programs, and creating integrated Statewide dental programs. This bill was marked up in the House Labor Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittee last Thursday and sent to the full House Appropriations Committee today. Due to a disagreement over the FY09 Interior Appropriations bill, consideration of the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill has been postponed to a later date.
06.05.2008	Congressman Mike Simpson joined 210 of his colleagues in the House of Representatives in opposing the congressional budget resolution for fiscal year 2009. The proposal raises taxes on American families in order to pay for an $84 billion increase in discretionary spending. “This budget ignores the reality of our nation’s fiscal situation by refusing to address the unrestrained growth of entitlement spending while pushing discretionary spending over $1 trillion for the first time in our nation’s history,” Simpson said. “What is more, I am deeply concerned that this budget allows important tax relief enacted by Congress in 2001 and 2003 to expire. At a time of economic uncertainty, we should be moving in the opposite direction.” The Democrat budget increases the federal deficit from $8.951 trillion in 2007 to $9.575 trillion in 2008. It also allows important tax cuts for American families and pro-growth policies to expire in 2011, creating the largest tax increase in our nation’s history. Under this budget, Americans will face higher taxes if they are married, have children, own small businesses, or invest for their future. Both Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke and U.S. Comptroller General Walker have warned Congress that increases in entitlement program spending are causing growing deficits that cannot be solved by higher tax rates or even faster economic growth. “We owe it to our children and grandchildren to produce a reasonable, responsible federal budget, and this means we must start making tough decisions today for future generations,” Simpson said. “This budget takes the easy way out by raising taxes instead of addressing our out-of-control spending problems.” Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.J.Res. 1, a resolution that proposes a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution, similar to Idaho’s law.
05.25.2008	The following is a statement from Congressman Mike Simpson concerning the recent death of Idaho Visionary, J.R. Simplot. “We all know the name J.R. Simplot. He was a good corporate citizen who continuously gave back to our communities. His contributions to our state exceed well beyond pioneering the frozen technology that made French Fries possible. Our entire country benefited from his futuristic vision. Right now, Kathy and my thoughts are with Ester and the rest of the Simplot family.”
05.22.2008	“Looking for someone to blame for the high cost of gasoline? It shouldn’t be hard to find as there is plenty of blame to go around. Addressing this problem requires a commitment to achieving a long-term energy solution, something both Republicans and Democrats have been unwilling to make. As a result, Americans are faced with record high gas prices and uncertainty in the future. “For decades, Democrats have refused to look at realistic domestic sources of energy, forcing our nation into a dangerous dependence on foreign oil. They have promoted a policy of inaction, leading us away from energy independence instead of toward it and leaving our own domestic sources of energy untapped when we need them most. “They claim their policies will protect the environment, but in fact, the Democrats’ policy of continued consumption without domestic production shifts production overseas where environmental standards and safeguards are far weaker then our own. “To be certain, Republicans deserve their fair share of criticism for the problems we see today. For years Republicans have been far too reluctant to invest in alternative and renewable sources of energy that could help wean us off Middle East oil. “Regrettably, Republicans have been too slow to act on innovative technologies, too quick to defend oil companies, and too patient with our allies in the Middle East who seemingly have control of our economy. It’s time Republicans recognize these faults and do their part to find common ground on an energy plan that, for the first time in three decades, actually works. “Of course, the real issue at hand is not just who deserves blame, but how we fix the problem. Options we should undertake right now include: · Immediately allowing greater, environmentally-responsible exploration and development of our own domestic sources of oil and natural gas. · Investing significant resources in renewable and alternative sources of energy, including cellulosic ethanol, hydrogen, fuel cells, electric and hybrid vehicles, coal gasification, oil shale, and a variety of other promising technologies. Our nation established the Manhattan Project during World War II for the creation of the atomic bomb. Today, I believe we need another Manhattan Project focused on complete energy independence for our nation in a greatly accelerated time frame. · Implementing more aggressive government oversight of oil and gas companies and consider changes in their tax treatments to move their huge profits into alternative energy development. · Limiting the amount of oil we put into the strategic oil reserves when oil prices are high and target potential releases from the reserves to the agriculture and trucking sectors of our economy. · Advancing new nuclear energy technologies, which would not only produce electricity but could provide the heat necessary to produce hydrogen, convert coal to gasoline, and exploit our domestic oil shale reserves. · Fundamentally changing the way we consume energy. We need to get American consumers good information about their energy usage and find ways to both encourage, and incentivize, smarter energy use. In fact, reduced consumption may be the best short-term answer to bringing prices down. “Einstein famously defined insanity as doing the same thing over and over and expecting different results. That aptly describes America’s energy policy over the past three decades. Achieving energy independence will require bold moves and bipartisan commitment, and finding agreement on even a few of these suggestions would be a step in the right direction. It’s time to stop pointing fingers and work together to bring real, effective relief to our nation’s energy consumers.”
05.14.2008	“America, now more than ever, needs a secure and stable domestic food supply – one that is supplied by American farmers, working in American fields, employing American workers, and supporting American communities.” – Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson The House of Representatives today passed the final version of comprehensive legislation to guide U.S. agriculture policy over the next decade. The bill was passed by a vote of 318-106. The Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 (H.R. 2149) improves upon the successful work done in 2002 with the last farm bill. The bill will expand food security programs, protect our vital natural resources, promote healthier foods and local food networks, and reform commodity and biofuel programs to reflect the priorities of the nation. Following floor debate on the bill, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson stressed the crucial need to pass this legislation and the impact it will have on rural America. “As with any initiative as large as the Farm Bill, there are things both good and bad within its contents. Overall, though, this is a good bill that builds on the success of the 2002 Farm Bill and will help nurture a stable farm economy for our nation’s rural communities,” said Simpson. Simpson stressed the importance of growing our food here at home and not relying on other nations for delivery of our most critical commodities. “America, now more than ever, needs a secure and stable domestic food supply – one that is supplied by American farmers, working in American fields, employing American workers, and supporting American communities. Strengthening the American farmer strengthens our great nation,” said Simpson. “The last thing this country ever needs is to become as reliant on foreign nations for our food as we have become for our oil. Just think for a minute of the ramifications of relying on South America for our sugar, Russia for our wheat, and Europe for our meat. The Farm Bill is one of our strongest tools for ensuring those scenarios never become reality.” The Farm Bill includes provisions important to some of Idaho’s most important commodities. These provisions include: · Reauthorization of the Sugar Program and modifications to divert excess sugar into ethanol production · New initiatives to expand research and marketing of specialty crops including apples, onions, mint, cherries, a variety of berries, grapes, and Idaho’s most famous crop, potatoes. · Increased loan rates for Wheat and Barley · Additional funding for the Environmental Quality Incentive Program · Additional funding and reform of the Conservation Stewardship Program · Establishes a Softwood Lumber Importer Declaration Program · Increases technical assistance for Specialty Crops · Improvements to farm credit programs · Creation of a Specialty Crop Research Initiative · Increases for the Specialty Crop Block Grant Program Additional provisions of nationwide significance include: Ensuring Food Security · Nutrition programs increased by $10.361 billion with appropriate benefit increases that are indexed to the cost of living · Vital assistance to food banks increased by $1.25 billion · New funding boosts organic agriculture, fruit and vegetable programs, and local food networks Promoting Homegrown Renewable Energy · Provides $1 billion to fund programs that will help the renewable energy industry invest in new technologies that use a variety of sources beyond feed grains · Corn ethanol tax credit reduced and redirected to incentives for cellulosic ethanol · Creates a loan guarantee program and a program to encourage and develop production of dedicated energy crops · Bioenergy research increased and renewable energy programs expanded Reforming Farm Programs · Farm program safety net extended and modernized, with an updated adjusted gross income means test for commodity programs · Farm and conservation program transparency increased, with direct attribution of payments and the ending of practices that result in multiple payment eligibility · Crop insurance reformed to prevent windfall reimbursements to crop insurance companies · Budgeted standing disaster assistance program for crops stricken by catastrophic natural disasters such as drought and flood Protecting the Environment · Conservation program spending increased by $7.9 billion · Doubles funding for the Farm Protection Program to protect agricultural lands from urban and suburban development pressure · Increases funding for the Environmental Quality Incentives Program and Conservation Stewardship Program to enhance and protect our natural resources · Continues funding for Grassland Reserve and Wetlands Reserve programs · Creates an Open Fields Program to encourage public access to private land for hunting and fishing as well as a Chesapeake Bay program to help restore and protect the Bay watershed Strengthening International Food Aid · Provides $60 million to purchase food overseas to feed people in need on top of the existing Food for Peace international aid program, along with an evaluation of this change and its effect on U.S. response times · Reauthorizes the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program for infant, child, and school nutrition programs in underdeveloped countries and provides an infusion of $84 million in additional funding.
05.02.2008	The Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act, H.R. 2702 has been reintroduced to the U.S. House of Representatives. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is a cosponsor of this legislation that improves educational benefits to all members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, including activated reservists and National Guard. Since World War II the United States has offered educational assistance to returning veterans. In the 1940s, the first G.I. Bill helped transform notions of equality in American society. The G.I. Bill paid for veterans’ tuition, books, fees, a monthly stipend, and other training costs. Approximately 7.8 million veterans used the benefits given under the original G.I. Bill. “As our servicemen and women come home from war and re-enter the workforce many benefit from continuing education,” said Simpson. “Whether they are expanding on a trade they already know or are taking on a new challenge, the G.I. Bill helps them achieve their goal. This bill will expand educational benefits to all returning soldiers and I’m hopeful it will become law soon.” Some of the major provisions in H.R. 2702 include: · Increased educational benefits would be available to all members of the military who have served on active duty since September 11, 2001, including activated reservists and National Guard. To qualify, veterans must have served at least three to thirty-six months of qualified active duty, beginning on or after September 11, 2001. · The bill provides for educational benefits to be paid in amounts linked to the amount of active duty served in the military after 9/11. Generally, veterans would receive some amount of assistance proportional to their service for 36 months, which equals four academic years. Veterans would still be eligible to receive any incentive-based supplemental educational assistance from their military branch for which they qualify. · Benefits provided under the bill would allow veterans pursuing an approved program of education to receive payments covering the established charges of their program, up to the cost of the most expensive in-state public school, plus a monthly stipend equivalent to housing costs in their area. The bill would allow additional payments for tutorial assistance, as well as licensure and certification tests. · The bill would create a new program in which the government will agree to match, dollar for dollar, any voluntary additional contributions to veterans from institutions whose tuition is more expensive than the maximum educational assistance provided under the Post-9/11 G.I. Bill. · Veterans would have up to fifteen years, compared to ten years under the Montgomery G.I. Bill, after they leave active duty to use their educational assistance entitlement. Veterans would be barred from receiving concurrent assistance from this program and another similar program. Senator Jim Webb (D-VA) has introduced a similar bill in the U.S. Senate.
04.30.2008	Idaho’s Congressional Delegation today praised final passage of a public lands bill that includes language to expand the borders of the Minidoka National Internment Site. The legislation, S. 2739, the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008, passed the U.S. House of Representatives following approval earlier this month in the U.S. Senate. The legislative language, included in a land management package, could aid human rights efforts to expand private development at the Minidoka site. Senators Mike Crapo and Larry Craig and Representatives Mike Simpson and Bill Sali all supported the legislation. “This legislation underscores the commitment by all Idahoans to further our human rights efforts,” Crapo said. “Settling border issues at the Minidoka site opens the door for private enterprise to take the next step in developing what should become a state landmark to the importance of remembering how important civil rights and human rights are in our state.” "I applaud the House of Representatives for their swift review of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008," Craig said. "This public lands omnibus bill holds three important pieces of legislation for Idaho, and I look forward to the moment when it is signed into law." “The Delegation worked hard to include several provisions that benefit Idaho in this legislation,” said Congressman Mike Simpson. “The irrigation language will finally correct long standing technicalities and allow Idaho farmers to repay construction costs to the Bureau of Reclamation. Also, the Minidoka National Historic Site will find its way to the President’s desk. Its preservation will allow future generations to learn from our history. I’m pleased this bill will become law.” Emily Hanako Momahara, Chair of the Friends of Minidoka, said, "The Friends of Minidoka could not be more pleased with the passage of S.2739. The boundary expansion will allow the story of Minidoka to be told in a much more thorough and exciting way. We are very thankful to Congress for their affirmative vote and leadership." Mark Elsbree, Vice President and Northwest Director for The Conservation Fund in Sun Valley, is the project leader on the Minidoka planning. “Thanks to the leadership of the Idaho Congressional delegation, Congress took a major step forward to conserve Minidoka,” Elsbree said. “Yesterday’s passage of the bipartisan land bill will safeguard the historic Farm-in-a-Day and enable the National Park Service to tell two important stories that are part of Idaho’s rich fabric – the Japanese American history at Minidoka and the development of agriculture in southern Idaho. By conserving lands at Minidoka, this important legislation will promote partnerships between the National Park Service, Japanese American community and the local community to highlight these important chapters in our history for years to come.”
04.22.2008	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3734, the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area Act. The legislation will rename the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, to the Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area. “Morley Nelson was an ardent advocate for the protection of the nation's birds of prey,” said House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick J. Rahall (D-WV). “I am pleased to see his life’s work honored in this legislation and appreciate Congressman Simpson’s efforts.” Congressman Sali also supported the legislation and said, “I commend Mike Simpson, for introducing H.R. 3734, which renames the Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area the ‘Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.’ It’s a fitting tribute to a great Idahoan and a great American.” The legislation has one final hurdle before reaching the President’s desk. The U.S. Senate needs to consider it as Senators Craig and Crapo’s companion legislation (S.262) has already cleared its respective committee. “This has been a great team effort by the Idaho Delegation,” said Simpson. “I’m proud to be part of honoring the life and work of Morley Nelson.”
04.21.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives is taking preventative measures to protect student loans and is aiming to increase unsubsidized Stafford Loan annual limit by $2,000. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported this important legislation to help stabilize student loans while the market is extremely variable. H.R. 5715, the Ensuring Continued Access to Student Loans Act of 2008 is a bipartisan bill. It is designed to protect students and families by making sure the disruptions in the financial markets do not prevent students from pursuing their higher education goals. "We live in uncertain times, especially now," said Simpson. "It is important that during this period of uncertainty, students are still able to make the choice to attend college. It is education that will keep our country moving forward and in order to maintain our place as the world leader, we must do all we can to help our young people succeed." Beyond increasing the Stafford Loan limit, H.R. 5715 also provides of an optional grace period for PLUS Loans equal to that of a Stafford Loan. PLUS Loan borrowers would have the option to defer payment for six months after the student graduates from college. This legislation is a pro-taxpayer solution that protects students and families without increasing federal spending. It permits the Secretary of Education to purchase loans, by creating a temporary backstop in a time of unprecedented market turmoil. This authority is in place for just one year, making clear that the long-term function of the loan programs will not change. This authority is voluntary for both lenders and the Secretary. No lender is required to sell loans, and the Secretary is not required to purchase them. This authority is cost neutral, requiring that the Secretary can only purchase loans if the result is no net cost to the U.S. Government. This authority is flexible, recognizing that the best response is one that allows the Department of Education to be nimble in response to students’ and families’ needs. This authority permits continuity for consumers by allowing the Secretary to maintain current servicing, creating a seamless transition for borrowers. H.R. 5715 passed the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 383-27 and will next be considered by the U.S. Senate.
04.21.2008	“These days it doesn't seem that there are many things Republicans and Democrats agree on. However, some issues transcend party politics and become regional matters, such as funding to our public lands counties. Western states like Nevada, Utah, and Idaho have a disproportionate amount of federal land. Approximately two out of every three acres in Idaho is owned by the federal government. Two out of three! These federal lands are both a luxury and a burden to Westerners. We have access to some of the most beautiful land America has to offer. These lands provide unsurpassed recreational activities for individuals and families. Many of us can remember the first time we cast our first line in a mountain lake, or marveled at the majestic wildlife. “However, these vast lands come with a heavy burden. Federal lands cannot be taxed by local governments, yet these local governments are responsible for providing services to those who recreate on them. These services include emergency medical response teams, road maintenance, and law enforcement. With such a large amount of federal land in some Idaho counties, local governments are left with little tax revenue, resulting in budget strains on these fundamental services. The Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) and Secure Rural Schools programs were authorized specifically to alleviate such burdens. Unfortunately, Congress has been reluctant to fully fund PILT or reauthorize Secure Rural Schools, and as a result, Western communities suffer. “It is important to note that these lands are not set aside solely for the use of Westerners. All Americans benefit from these lands. As that is the case, it is simply not fair to expect small rural communities to bear 100% of the burden. Programs like PILT and Secure Rural Schools are justifiable means of spreading the cost of these lands to all Americans. If the people on the east coast want the access to public lands, then it is only fair that they bear some of the cost. “I have worked with both Republicans and Democrats on this important issue in an effort to ensure Western counties are treated equally. Most recently I signed a letter addressed to the House Interior Appropriations Committee urging them to move the Department of the Interior's Fiscal Year 2009 budget towards full funding for PILT. Furthermore, I have cosponsored legislation that would reauthorize the Secure Rural Schools Program and have sought alternative avenues to reauthorize it. Admittedly, much work in advocating Members of Congress from states not faced with an overwhelming percentage of federal lands. However, I will continue working with my colleagues to ensure our rural communities are fairly compensated for the burden of federal lands.”
04.16.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson cosponsored H.Con.Res. 323, expressing Congressional support for the goals and ideals of National Health Care Decisions Day on April 16. This resolution encourages all Americans to take the time to discuss these important medical decisions with their loved ones. "Many people think about what their last medical wishes would be, but few take the necessary action to ensure that they will be followed," said Simpson. "If individuals take the time to convey their desires properly, family members and medical power of attorneys can better execute their living wills." National Health Care Decisions Day will raise awareness about the importance of advance directives. Whether these guidelines are made through preparation of a living will or designation of a medical power of attorney, are crucial in conveying end-of-life medical wishes in the event an individual is incapable of communicating them. The resolution will also provide information to the public for example: how to designate a medical power of attorney. Executing these documents would authorize the appointed agent to make health care decisions on an individual’s behalf if they are unable to do so for themselves. National organizations support National Health Care Decisions Day: AARP Ascension Health Aging With Dignity American Academy of Nurse Practitioners American Association for Homecare American Association of Critical-Care Nurses American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging American Association of Medical Colleges American Bar Association Association for Healthcare Volunteer Resource Professionals American Geriatrics Society American Health Care Association American Health Lawyers Association American Hospital Association American Medical Association American Medical Directors Association American Nurses Association Association of Professional Chaplains B'nai B'rith International Caring Advocates Catholic Health Association of the United States Center for Elder Justice and Policy at William Mitchell College of Law Center for Medicare Advocacy Center for Practical Bioethics Center for Social Gerontology Chinese American Coalition for Compassionate Care Duke Institute on Care at the End of Life Federation of American Hospitals Financial Planning Association Hospice and Palliative Nurses Association Medical Library Association National Academy of Elder Law Attorneys National Association of Area Agencies on Aging (n4a) National Association of Jewish Chaplains National Association of Professional Geriatric Case Workers National Association of Social Workers National Association on Directors of Nursing Administration in Long Term Care National Center for Assisted Living National Family Caregivers Association National Hispanic Medical Association National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization National POLST Paradigm Initiative Task Force National Right to Life Oncology Nursing Society Project GRACE Service and Advocacy for GLBT Elders Social Work Hospice and Palliative Care Network (SWHPN) Society of Hospital Medicine Supportive Care Coalition The Hastings Center The HealthCare Chaplaincy The National Association of Catholic Chaplains United States Army Judge Advocate General's Corps
04.16.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is an original cosponsor of the Federal Sunset Act of 2008 (H.R. 5794). This bill would cut wasteful federal spending by creating a bi-partisan commission to hold agencies accountable for performance. The legislation would establish a twelve year sunset date for every federal agency; at which time they would be up for a top to bottom assessment on their present day merit, effectiveness, and responsiveness to taxpayers. Ineffective and outdated programs would be eliminated, or ‘sunsetted,’ while effective programs would be renewed to continue their service to taxpayers. "Everyday businesses evaluate policy, programs and other expenditures to determine if money is being spent wisely," said Simpson. "The federal government should be held to these same standards. If agencies reviews occur, then recommendations will be made whether programs should continue, be reorganized or simply be abolished." Congressman Kevin Brady (R-TX) first introduced the bi-partisan measure in 1997. The measure has passed through committee, and even received overwhelming support on the House floor as an amendment in past sessions, but has never been considered as a stand-alone bill on the floor. "We know the federal government can do better," said Simpson. "Many programs are tasked with the same goal. Perhaps streamlining these initiatives will help eliminate wasteful spending while providing much needed services." To date there are 64 separate welfare programs, 500 urban aide programs, 342 economic development programs, and 163 programs with a job training or employment function, just a few examples of where the taxpayers’ money is going. H.R. 5794 is based on state sunset laws in Texas, which have successfully curbed government waste by requiring agencies and programs to face regular scrutiny and possibly elimination or consolidation, if they cannot prove their value to taxpayers.
04.15.2008	"Like most Americans, taxes are on my mind today. We never really enjoy paying taxes, but the tax burden placed on American families and businesses is especially heavy when we face increased health care costs, rising prices for energy and groceries, and economic uncertainty. Americans work more than four months a year just to pay their tax bills. In fact, the average American family pays more in taxes than it spends on food, shelter and clothing combined. Today more than ever, hard-working Americans need and deserve tax relief. "Our current tax code is full of complicated formulas and obscure rules that cause confusion and procrastination. Fundamentally reforming the tax code, even throwing out the current code and replacing it with a simpler, fairer tax, is necessary to bring meaningful tax relief to the citizens of Idaho. But while we work to devise a smaller, leaner and more efficient tax code, I believe it is crucial that Congress acts now to preserve the tax relief for America’s hard-working individuals, families, and businesses passed in 2001 and 2003. "Tax relief gives back to Americans their own money, earned through hard work and sacrifice, and allows them the dignity of investing their money as they think best. Moreover, tax relief encourages business investment, produces job growth, and, simply put, creates a more prosperous America that is better able to address the needs of its citizens. "As Americans face economic uncertainty, it would be irresponsible to allow this tax relief to expire, but that is just what the Democrat budget for the coming year would do. As a result, couples who are married will pay more than if they were single, the child tax credit will be cut in half, the estate tax returns in full force, and each taxpayer will face a $3,000 tax increase. "Americans should not be penalized for working hard and saving to raise their families. This is why I am a cosponsor of H.R. 2734, the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which would stop this massive tax increase and instead encourage job creation and hard work by providing American families and small businesses with the tools and confidence they need to succeed. "Congress should quit talking the issue of tax reform to death and get on with the job of making the tax code simple, transparent, and fair. While we look at the big picture, we must also focus on tax relief in the short term. As Americans head to the mailbox to send in their tax forms before today’s deadline, I am working to make sure that Americans can continue to count on this important tax relief for years to come."
04.10.2008	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Idaho Representative Mike Simpson today said passage of a Senate public lands legislative package will strengthen activities and missions at three Idaho lands and historic sites. The package which passed the Senate by a 91 to 4 vote incorporated three pieces of legislation introduced last year by Idaho’s Congressional delegation and reported to the full Senate by the Energy and Natural Resources Committee on which Craig serves. The Idaho measures include the Minidoka National Historic Site Act of 2007, the American Falls Reservoir District Number 2 Conveyance Act, and the Southern Idaho Bureau of Reclamation Repayment Act of 2007. “Idaho has a lot at stake in this large bill which authorizes 62 programs and activities of the Forest Service and the Interior and Energy departments, including land conveyances, boundary adjustments, studies, memorials, commissions and national park natural resource protection,” Craig said. “This public lands bill contains legislation needed for Idaho,” said Simpson. “The irrigation provisions will finally correct long standing technicalities and allow Idaho farmers to repay construction costs to the Bureau of Reclamation. The Minidoka National Historic Site will find its way to the President’s desk. This is the historic site of Idaho’s Japanese internment camp during WWII. Its preservation will allow future generations to learn from our history.” Craig introduced the Minidoka National Historic Site Act in 2007 to adjust the boundary of the Minidoka Internment National Monument located in Idaho to include the Nidoto Nai Yoni memorial owned by the City of Bainbridge Island in Washington State. That memorial commemorates the Japanese Americans there who were the first to be relocated to internment camps during World War II. Included in the historic site is the Herrmann farm, part of the Minidoka Relocation Center, one of 10 city-like camps where Americans of Japanese descent were interned during World War II. After the war, the Herrmann farm land was transformed into small family farms, many going to World War II veterans. Legislation affecting the second Idaho public lands site, the American Falls Reservoir District Number 2 Conveyance Act, authorizes the Interior Secretary to convey specified land to the American Falls Reservoir District Number 2 in Jerome, Lincoln and Gooding counties, to the City of Gooding and to the Idaho Department of Fish and Game. The third Idaho measure is the Southern Idaho Bureau of Reclamation Repayment Act of 2007. The concept of acreage limitations regarding Reclamation irrigation water originated with enactment of the Reclamation Act of 1902. The primary goal of the Reclamation program at that time was to develop the arid West by promoting farming opportunities for families and limiting speculation on land that would benefit from the introduction of irrigated agriculture. Many farmers have reached retirement age and are asking to pass their farms down to family or simply sell their land unencumbered. While these farmers’ wishes are understandable, their implementation has placed undue burdens on A & B Irrigation District. The Southern Idaho Bureau of Reclamation Repayment Act of 2006 authorizes prepayment by landowners of their allocated portion of the obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation within A & B Irrigation District and will allow individual landowners to prepay their obligations if they desire. Nothing in this Act releases financial obligations by any private party to the United States Government.
04.09.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced a $10,000 grant has been awarded to the Wood River Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) program to assist rural businesses. The funding, provided through the USDA Rural Development, will aid agricultural entrepreneurs in market research and project development for value-added products. “Agriculture remains the backbone of Idaho’s economy and innovation is what will keep it that way for years to come,” said Simpson. “I want to commend the Wood River RC&D for their efforts to promote new business opportunities in Idaho, expand the value of farm commodities, and strengthen Idaho communities.” The grant meets the Wood River RC&D’s economic development goals by assisting local farmers and entrepreneurs in vertically integrating their operations and adding value to agricultural commodities. With this grant funding, the RC&D plans to facilitate the development and/or expansion of agricultural business through increased marketing and planning and encourage sustained agriculture by providing more local food options for the Magic Valley. “If the value-added activities that were identified during this grant process are awarded Value-Added Producer Grants, it will add additional jobs and strengthen the economy in the Wood River Valley,” said Wood River RC&D Coordinator, Polly Huggins. “USDA Rural Development Business Program Specialist's Randy Wheatley and Brian Buch were great to work with and provided much assistance to assure the grant process was simple and straightforward. We look forward to partnering with them on future projects.” More information about this grant can be found at www.rurdev.usda.gov/id.
04.08.2008	The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation sponsored by Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson. The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2007 that helps improve the newborn screening process passed the House on suspension today with no opposition. Newborn screening in the United States is not uniform. In fact, more than 1,000 babies are born each year with a detectable and treatable disorder that goes unscreened. And unfortunately, too often inadequate follow-up is provided for many conditions that are revealed. “Over 4 million babies are born in the United States each year. Using a blood sample from the newborn’s foot identifies infants with genetic or other conditions that can be treated effectively,” Simpson said. “This bill gives parents additional resources so that early identification and early treatment can be available for their baby.” Each year newborn screening identifies an estimated 3,000 babies with conditions like PKU, sickle cell disease, and homocystinuria that, if left undetected, would have dire consequences including death and long-term disability. The American College of Medical Genetics recommends that every baby born in the United States be screened for 29 specific disorders. The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act seeks to eliminate these unnecessary deaths and severe disabilities by providing grants for the following: · Educating parents and health care professionals about newborn screening; · Establishing a central clearinghouse for newborn screening information and resources; · Directing the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders to continuously update the panel of recommended tests, and encouraging states to uniformly test for all recommended disorders; · Providing resources for researchers to develop better detection, prevention and treatment strategies, and for states to expand and improve their newborn screening programs; · Developing a national contingency plan for infant screening in the event of a large scale disaster, and · Requiring the CDC to ensure the quality of laboratories involved in the newborn testing. Organizations including; the March of Dimes, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Association of Public Health Laboratories agree that better public education about newborn screening is pivotal.
04.08.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced today an award of 17 classic books on the theme of “Created Equal” to the following libraries: Boise Public Library, Jefferson Elementary Library (Boise), St. Joseph’s Catholic School Library (Boise), Burley Public Library, Portneuf District Library, Ammon Elementary School (Idaho Falls), Idaho Falls High School Library, Mountain Home Public Library, Madison Library District (Rexburg), Ririe Public Library, and Wendell High School Library. This award is made possible through the National Endowment for the Humanities’(NEH) We the People Bookshelf program. “History fascinates me,” Simpson said. “I’m pleased that so many libraries in Idaho will benefit from the We the People Bookshelf Award. Our young readers will gain a greater understanding of what it means to be an American based on the premise that all people are created equal.” The We the People Bookshelf program will distribute 3000 sets of books to city, town, and neighborhood libraries as well as libraries in public, private, and charter schools and home school consortia. Each library will receive a set of the 17 books along with posters, bookmarks, and other promotional materials from NEH through the American Library Association (ALA), which is working in partnership with the Endowment. As part of the award, libraries are organizing programs or events to raise awareness of these classic books and engage young readers. The books selected for the “Created Equal” Bookshelf include several on Abraham Lincoln to facilitate programming for the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial over the next year. These include a “History in a Box” collection of resource materials on Lincoln developed by the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American history. The We the People "Created Equal" Bookshelf contains the following books: Kindergarten to Grade 3 The Ugly Duckling by Hans Christian Andersen The Gettysburg Address by Abraham Lincoln, illustrated by Michael McCurdy Pink and Say by Patricia Polacco Pink y Say by Patricia Polacco (translated by Alejandra López Varela) Grades 4 to 6 Elijah of Buxton by Christopher Paul Curtis Give Me Liberty! The Story of the Declaration of Independence by Russell Freedman Lincoln: A Photobiography by Russell Freedman Many Thousand Gone: African Americans from Slavery to Freedom by Virginia Hamilton Lyddie by Katherine Paterson Lyddie by Katherine Paterson (translated by Rosa Benavides) Grades 7 to 8 Saturnalia by Paul Fleishman Freedom Walkers: The Story of the Montgomery Bus Boycott by Russell Freedman Abraham Lincoln the Writer: A Treasury of His Greatest Speeches And Letters edited by Harold Holzer Breaking Through by Francisco Jiménez Senderos Fronterizos by Francisco Jiménez (translated by Francisco Jiménez) Grades 9 to 12 Abigail Adams: Witness to a Revolution by Natalie S. Bober That All People May Be One People, Send Rain to Wash the Face of the Earth by Nez Perce Chief Joseph Flowers for Algernon by Daniel Keyes Flores para Algernon by Daniel Keyes (translated by Paz Barroso) Lincoln’s Virtues: An Ethical Biography by William Lee Miller Amistad: A Novel by David Pesci The bookshelf program is part of the NEH’s We the People program, which supports projects that strengthen the teaching, study, and understanding of American history and culture.
04.04.2008	Idaho Senator Mike Crapo and Idaho 2nd District Representative Mike Simpson are asking U.S. military authorities to grant clemency to Sergeant Evan Vela, who was court martialed and convicted of murder without premeditation by a military court in February 2008. In separate letters to Major General Rick Lynch, Crapo and Simpson outlined their concerns with the conviction and the precedent it set regarding soldiers following military orders. In his letter, dated March 7, 2008, Crapo wrote: “Soldiers are trained to follow orders issued to facilitate order and safety on the battlefield. When orders issued in high stress situations, such as Sgt. Vela found himself, contravene order, safety and perhaps the Rules of Engagement, more than one individual must be held accountable for the outcome, and the responsibility for errors in judgment must be shared by all involved. The outcome of this case could create an environment where under fire or in a threatening situation [a soldier] could hesitate to defend themselves or their comrades from a perceived threat. In my view, the final judgment in Sgt. Vela’s case calls into question the standard evaluation of basic rules of engagement, creating uncertain and dangerous operational environments for commanders and soldiers involved in day-to-day combat missions.” In Simpson’s letter of April 3, 2008, he wrote: “In addition to conflicting accounts of the rules of engagement, I also have strong concerns over reports of Sgt. Vela’s physical and mental conditions at the time of the incident,” said Simpson. “There are a number of mitigating factors and extenuating circumstances in this case that make a compelling argument for clemency.” Copies of both letters accompany this news release and are also available on the Congressmen’s respective websites. Vela, who is originally from St. Anthony, Idaho, was assigned to the Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade (Airborne), 25th Infantry Division, based at Fort Richardson, Alaska. He was convicted of killing an unarmed Iraqi civilian and planting evidence on the body. Throughout the investigation and trial, Vela has maintained, and his superior officers have confirmed, that Vela and fellow soldiers were following orders during the incident, which occurred in May 2007 near Iskandariyah, Iraq, which is about 30 miles south of Baghdad. Copies of the letters follow: April 3, 2008 Major General Rick Lynch, USA Commanding General Multi-National Division – Center 3rd Infantry Division Dear General Lynch: I write this letter as an appeal for clemency for Sergeant Evan Vela, a constituent from the state of Idaho assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade (Airborne), 25th Infantry Division, based at Fort Richardson, Alaska. I have been in contact with members of Sergeant Vela’s family and members of his community throughout this court battle. Like them, I am concerned with the circumstances surrounding this case. According to my constituents, Sgt. Vela followed an order from his superior on the reasonable premise that his unit’s position would be compromised. Among the co-accused, Sgt. Vela has received the harshest punishment. I am concerned that he is playing the role of scapegoat in a series of tragedies in a time of war. In addition to conflicting accounts of the rules of engagement, I also have strong concerns over reports of Sgt. Vela’s physical and mental conditions at the time of the incident. There are a number of mitigating factors and extenuating circumstances in this case that make a compelling argument for clemency, and in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, I urge you to consider those factors and circumstances in your post-trial review. I sincerely appreciate your attention and consideration of this request for clemency for Sgt. Evan Vela of St. Anthony, Idaho. Sincerely, Mike Simpson United States Representative March 7, 2008 Major General Rick Lynch, USA Commanding General Multi-National Division – Center 3rd Infantry Division Dear General Lynch: I am writing to appeal for clemency for Sergeant Evan Vela, a constituent from the state of Idaho assigned to Headquarters and Headquarters Company, 1st Battalion, 501st Infantry Regiment, 4th Brigade (Airborne), 25th Infantry Division, based at Fort Richardson, Alaska. As I understand the facts of the case, Sgt. Vela followed an order from his superior on the reasonable premise that his unit’s position would be compromised. Yet, he received the harshest punishment among the co-accused. In addition to conflicting accounts of the rules of engagement, I have strong concerns over reports of Sgt. Vela’s physical and mental conditions at the time of the incident. There are a number of mitigating factors and extenuating circumstances in this case that make a compelling argument for clemency, and that I urge you to reconsider in your post-trial review. As you well know, the unique nature of the current conflict in Iraq has introduced new challenges for the United States government and military. Too often and to the detriment of our troops, the same political considerations of nation-building weighed by elected officials and commanders on the ground are also shouldered by military men and women carrying out day-to-day security and stabilization missions in combat zones. The safety and success of our men and women in uniform would be seriously jeopardized if every service member was subjected to the same scrutiny for their actions during combat as in Sgt. Vela’s case. While citizens of Iraq and Iraqi leaders may have strong interest in the outcome of this case, I urge you to consider the compelling message sent to fellow soldiers on the ground as they continue in their mission. Most of us cannot imagine the stress that those in uniform undergo when they have to make a split-second decision whether to fire or be fired upon, to kill or be killed. This War, especially one characterized by dangerously close combat scenarios, insurgent warfare, and constant uncertainty and confusion about friend or foe, does not provide the luxury of clear circumstances or marked enemies that better afford more identifiably right or wrong decisions to exercise deadly force. Furthermore, soldiers are trained to follow orders issued to facilitate order and safety on the battlefield. When orders issued in high stress situations, such as Sgt. Vela found himself, contravene order, safety and perhaps the Rules of Engagement, more than one individual must be held accountable for the outcome, and the responsibility for errors in judgment must be shared by all involved. The outcome of this case could create an environment where under fire or in a threatening situation could hesitate to defend themselves or their comrades from a perceived threat. In my view, the final judgment in Sgt. Vela’s case calls into question the standard evaluation of basic rules of engagement, creating uncertain and dangerous operational environments for commanders and soldiers involved in day-to-day combat missions. Just as you and Sgt. Vela wear the same uniform, Sgt. Vela and I share a state and community identity. I trust you will give this decision all the fairness and consideration that Sgt. Vela, as a member of the United States military, deserves and has earned with his service. While Evan Vela may never again wear the uniform of a soldier in the U.S. Army, I urge you to consider granting Sgt. Vela the ability to continue service to his country. The discipline and dedication which served him in the Army will continue to serve him in future years. On behalf of Idaho and the United States, I would like to express my sincere gratitude and respect for your service to our country. I appreciate your attention and consideration of this request for clemency for Sgt. Vela. Sincerely, Mike Crapo United States Senator
04.02.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson’s bill H.R. 3734, which would rename the Snake River Birds of Prey in honor of Morley Nelson passed the House Resources Committee today. Mr. Nelson was an early advocate for the preservation of birds of prey, a documentary filmmaker, and a resident of the Gem State. "The work being done in Idaho has been instrumental in bringing species, such as Idaho's Peregrine Falcon, back from the brink of extinction. I am proud of the Gem State’s contribution to these efforts, and I think it is only fitting the Conservation Area that continues the work of Morley Nelson’s life bear his name," Simpson added. Morley Nelson worked closely with Idaho Governors and State Legislators to ensure the protection of Idaho’s raptors. He also lent his talents to Walt Disney Studios, producing many wildlife documentaries that introduced America to wildlife that resides within our vast country. The Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, located along the Snake River south of Boise, is home to one of the largest populations of raptors in the world. There are over 24 species at the Birds of Prey, some are: Bald Eagles, Peregrine Falcons, Ospreys, California Condors, and Golden Eagles. Senators Larry Craig and Mike Crapo introduced identical legislation in the U.S. Senate, S. 262 and the bill is currently waiting for consideration before the chamber. "Many Idahoans, myself included, view Morley Nelson as a visionary genius," said Simpson. "He had the ability to educate, motivate, and save native species from extinction." H.R. 3734, will now be considered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. When enacted the new name will be, Morey Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
03.31.2008	“The National Institutes of Health (NIH) is our country’s primary agency for conducting and supporting medical research. NIH scientists investigate ways to prevent disease, research the causes of disease and look for better and more effective treatments and cures for everything from heart disease and stroke to cancer, AIDS, and sudden infant death syndrome. “A few weeks ago, I joined the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee on a tour of NIH to learn more about the exciting and groundbreaking research NIH is doing to improve the health and quality of life for all Americans. Here are just a few examples of some of the exciting research they are doing there: A vaccine against tooth decay – NIH Scientists are close to developing a vaccine that could eliminate the bacteria that cause tooth decay before it starts. Imagine a world where tooth decay does not exist! Salivary Diagnostics – Today, getting tested for diseases such as diabetes or having a pregnancy test require making a trip to the doctor’s office to get your blood drawn or providing a urine sample. At NIH, scientists have identified genes and protein in the salivary glands to detect diseases such as cancer, heart disease or diabetes. Soon, it will be possible to use saliva to detect various conditions and diseases, making painful needle sticks no longer necessary. Heart Disease – In the 1960s, it was common for Americans to die of heart attacks in their 50s and 60s. Today, through medical research, scientists have learned the common risk factors for heart disease to help prevent the disease, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, smoking, obesity and lack of exercise. In addition, they have found ways to control blood pressure through medication. Now, instead of waiting until they need open heart surgery, people are taking action to prevent heart attacks through lifestyle, diet and medicine. Cancer – NIH Scientists have already developed vaccines to help protect against some forms of liver cancer and cervical cancers and are evaluating several more cancer vaccines. Imagine a world in which a vaccine was available to prevent cancer! While we are a long way from that goal, advances in research are putting us closer everyday. “These are just a few of examples of the exciting research that is occurring at NIH everyday. I encourage you to learn more about National Institutes of Health and how research they are doing can improve your health and quality of life by visiting www.nih.gov.”
03.13.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has joined his Western House colleagues in an effort to fund the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. The Members of Congress sent a letter to Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Norm Dicks (D-WA) and Ranking Member Todd Tiahrt (R-KS) today. The Administration’s proposed budget would cut the PILT program by $34 million from the Fiscal Year 2008 enacted level of $228 million. The purpose of PILT is to establish a level playing field by making up for substantial losses in the tax base of counties with large federal land ownership. Nearly one out of three acres is in the United States is owned by the federal government. Almost ninety percent of all federal acres are located in the West. Fully funding the PILT program is essential to rural communities. In part the letter stated, “PILT is not just a ‘handout’ for public lands communities; it is the federal government fulfilling its obligation to the communities that host the Public Lands. Because federal land ownership robs local communities of property tax revenues and revenues associated with private business development, the PILT program was created to help offset a portion of the lost income for local counties. Without these funds, many rural communities would be unable to provide even the most fundamental services to both their residents and the users of the federal lands.” The letter concluded by thanking the Committee for past support on this issue and recognized budget constraints our nation faces. However, Members requested the Department of Interior’s budget be moved toward fully funding the PILT program
03.06.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today testified before the House Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands regarding his bill H.R. 3734 which would rename the Snake River Birds of Prey in honor of Morley Nelson. Mr. Nelson was an early advocate for the preservation of birds of prey, a documentary filmmaker, and a resident of the Gem State. “Many Idahoans, myself included, view Morley Nelson as a visionary genius,” said Simpson. “He had the ability to educate, motivate, and save native species from extinction.” Morley Nelson worked closely with Idaho Governors and State Legislators to ensure the protection of Idaho’s raptors. He also lent his talents to Walt Disney Studios, producing many wildlife documentaries that introduced America to wildlife that resides within our vast country. The Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area, located along the Snake River south of Boise, is home to one of the largest populations of raptors in the world. There are over 24 species at the Birds of Prey, some are: Bald Eagles, Peregrine Falcons, Ospreys, California Condors, and Golden Eagles. “The work being done in Idaho has been instrumental in bringing species, such as Idaho's Peregrine Falcon, back from the brink of extinction. I am proud of the Gem State’s contribution to these efforts, and I think it is only fitting the Conservation Area that continues the work of Morley Nelson’s life bear his name,” Simpson added. Senators Larry E. Craig and Mike Crapo introduced identical legislation in the U.S. Senate, S. 262 and the bill is currently waiting for consideration before the chamber. Simpson added, “I appreciate the Subcommittee's consideration of this bill and am hopeful this legislation will pass Congress quickly so it may be presented to the President for his signature.” H.R. 3734, will now be considered by the House Resources full committee and then move to the U.S. House for full consideration. When enacted the new name will be, Morley Nelson Snake River Birds of Prey National Conservation Area.
03.05.2008	Congressman Mike Simpson announced that his office is now accepting Service Academy Applications. The applications for the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy are due on October 31, 2008. Graduates of U.S. Military Academies receive a first-rate undergraduate education, equivalent to a top-tier, Ivy League school and have options to pursue advanced degrees. They spend a minimum of 5 years on active duty as a military officer with various career opportunities available. Many graduates join the ranks of military giants like Norman Schwarzkopf, George Patton and Dwight D. Eisenhower. “Academy nominations give Idaho’s finest students the opportunity to receive an elite college education, get a jump-start on a good career while serving their country,” said Simpson. “Idaho consistently ranks among the top states in the quality of its nominations and we'll be looking to continue that record.” Classroom work at the Academies focuses heavily on technology, math, and science in order to meet the challenges of an ever-changing world. Students learn discipline and are required to excel in both the classroom and extra-curricular activities including athletics and music. To register for an application please visit Congressman Simpson’s website at www.house.gov/simpson and look under the ‘Services for You’ tab, or the direct link is: http://www.house.gov/simpson/students-academies.shtml. You may also call Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219.
03.04.2008	In a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Budget Committee, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 21 of his House colleagues in requesting additional funding for the Department of Energy’s Environment Management Program. The Environmental Management Program typically includes roughly $500 million in funding for cleanup activities at the Idaho National Laboratory. In part, the letter stated: “Under the accelerated cleanup initiative, funding for Environmental Management Cleanup peaked at S7.3 billion in Fiscal Year2005. Despite successful closure of several small sites, however, the shift of funding from closed sites to the larger sites like Hanford, Idaho, Oak Ridge and Savannah River did not happen. In fact, the budget for the Environmental Management program has dropped over $l billion in just three years - falling from $6.6 billion in Fiscal Year 2006 to $5.5 billion in the Fiscal Year 2009 request submitted by President Bush last month. “Under this reduced budget, cleanup would ultimately take longer and cost taxpayers more. By delaying cleanup, reduced budgets mean greater environmental and safety risks and cause the layoff of hundreds of skilled workers. “The successful closure of small sites, like Rocky Flats and Mound, has proven that increased budgets can lead to substantial cleanup progress and achievements through smart, prudent management of funding and cleanup resources. These lessons should be applied to the remaining sites across our nation so that cleanup momentum and progress can continue” The letter was signed by the following Members of Congress: Doc Hastings (R-WA), Mike Simpson (R-ID), Gresham Barrett (R-SC), Zach Wamp (R-TN), Norm Dicks (D-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Adam Smith (D-WA), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Charlie Wilson (D-OH), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), David Wu (D-OR), Jay Inslee (D-WA), John Dunchan, Jr. (R-TN), Steve Pearce (R-NM), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Jean Schmidt (R-OH), Greg Walden (R-OR), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Heather Wilson (R-NM), Bob Inglis (R-SC).
03.04.2008	“Television as we know it is about to change. On February 17, 2009, television stations all over the country will begin broadcasting exclusively in a digital format, ending analog broadcasts that come through conventional television antennas. It’s important to know a few facts about the upcoming transition so that your family’s television doesn’t go dark next February. “Digital television, or DTV, has enormous benefits, including better reception, improved picture quality, and more multi-media options. Even more importantly, because using a digital signal is a more efficient way to broadcast, transitioning our nation to DTV will free up spectrum for first responders to use to communicate during emergencies. Our nation’s first responders desperately these tools so that they can react quickly and decisively during emergencies. “While the benefits of transitioning to DTV are clear, the move presents a number of challenges. After February 17, 2009, to continue receiving free, over-the-air signals, a television set must have either a digital tuner or a set-top converter box that converts the new digital signal into the old analog format and the set to continue receiving broadcast-only signals. “Will you need a set-top converter box to ensure that your television continues to work after February 17, 2009? An estimated 19.6 million households in the United States rely on antennas to receive broadcast television, and if you fall into that category, your televisions will require set-top converter boxes. However, if you subscribe to cable or satellite service, any of your televisions that receive video programming through that provider will not require a converter box. Likewise, if you already have a digital television, you will not notice the transition. “In order to ensure that all Americans continue to receive television service during the transition, Congress established the Digital-to-Analog Converter Box Coupon Program. Through this program, every U.S. household is eligible to receive up to two $40 coupons to purchase converter boxes. You can now request your coupons online at www.dtv2009.gov, by calling 1-888-DTV-2009, or by mail. It’s important to remember that coupons expire 90 days after they are issued. “Coupons can be exchanged for set-top converter boxes at a number of national retailers, and I encourage you to ask questions when purchasing either set-top boxes or new televisions: Is this TV ready for the digital transition? Will this converter box ensure that I will continue to receive my local television stations? You can also find out more information online by visiting www.dtv.gov or www.dtvanswers.com. As always, feel free to contact my office with any questions you have about the upcoming transition. “Are you ready for the change? Now that you know about it, share the news with your family, neighbors, and coworkers. If we work to spread information about the upcoming digital transition, we can ensure that everyone receives the benefits of DTV.”
02.27.2008	In a hearing that examined the President’s FY09 Education Budget, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson pressed Department of Education Secretary, Margaret Spellings, for answers to difficult challenges our nation faces, including the need for more vocational programs. Simpson is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and he is also a member of the Congressional Career and Technical Education Caucus. Simpson focused on the growing need for a technical workforce, “The energy sector, from the Idaho National Lab to leading energy and nuclear energy companies, are consistently telling me the same thing, ‘We have a serious workforce shortage in vocational and technical fields.’ Some nuclear companies are now setting up their own training schools to train students for careers in these high-demand fields. While we all recognize the importance of going to college, a traditional four-year bachelor’s degree may not be the best fit for all of our nation’s youth. The median salary for an electrical or mechanical technician working for a nuclear plant is over $60,000—which is a great salary in my hometown. At the same time, while demand for this training continues to increase, the President’s budget request has zeroed out funding for the Career and Technical Education which helps to fund the development of vocational and technical programs. I am concerned that this proposed budget cut will create a serious gap in our workforce.” According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ projects, eight out of the top ten occupations with the largest job growth through 2014 will require an associate’s degree or vocational training. The Career and Technical Education Programs include training in math, science and economics that will help prepare students for all 20 of the fastest growing occupations identified in the U.S. And the National Association of Manufacturers report that over 80% of respondents are experiencing significant shortages of skilled workers. Simpson also raised a number of other concerns with the President’s proposed education budget. He also asked the Secretary to think about how our nation is going to handle our shrinking teacher workforce as teachers are retiring faster than they are being replaced. “Quality teachers are critical to ensuring a quality education. We need to ensure that as our teachers are retiring, we are working to hire well-qualified teachers to replace them.” The Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Subcommittee will soon begin consideration of the DOE’s budget for fiscal year 2009.
02.26.2008	"For generations Idahoans have been taught a strong work ethic, Western values and invaluable management skills through hard work on the family farm. Sadly, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the upcoming generation of farmers and ranchers to follow in their families' footsteps. Each year the risks and costs of agriculture production increase. Drought is a recurring threat and fuel and fertilizer prices always seem to be on the rise. Perhaps the most disturbing trend is that more and more farmland is being taken out of production for development to accommodate our growing population. It's not hard to see why. It is simply more profitable to sell farmland to developers than to sell it to young farmers looking to get their foot in the door or pass it along to children as an inheritance. "No one should be forced to sell the family farm simply because they cannot afford to pay the tax to inherit it after the loss of a parent. Furthermore, farmers and ranchers who have worked hard all their lives should not be forced to choose between a well deserved retirement and the irreplaceable loss of their land to development. "Congress has proposed two solutions that I believe can address these problems and help secure our agricultural tradition for generations to come. First, the Beginning Farmers and Ranchers Act will allow retiring farmers and ranchers to receive a 100 percent exemption from the capital gains tax if their land is sold to a qualified beginning farmer or rancher. If the farmland is sold to another agriculture producer, there will be a 50 percent deduction. "Second, the Save the Family Farm and Ranch Act of 2007 will exempt farmland from the death tax. This punitive tax has had a devastating impact on farming families. When a parent passes away the last thing a grieving family needs is a visit from the IRS. Furthermore, children who have worked side by side with their parents to establish the family farm should be allowed to receive their rightful inheritance without the government interfering. "I am hopeful that lifting the cumbersome effects of these taxes will provide greater incentives for farmers and ranchers to keep Idaho's rich farmland in production, ensuring the upcoming generation will have the opportunity to continue Idaho's agriculture tradition. I am confident Idaho agriculture will not only survive for generations to come, but thrive if the government will simply stand aside and let the young farmers follow in their families' footsteps."
02.11.2008	On March 9, 2007, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals issued its ruling on Parker v. District of Columbia. In a 2-1 ruling the Court declared the District of Columbia’s gun ban unconstitutional. Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson added his support to an amicus brief urging the U.S. Supreme Court to recognize the Second Amendment right to bear arms as an individual right. The majority opinion stated: “The phrase ‘the right of the people' . . . leads us to conclude that the right in question is individual.” “I completely agree with the Court’s opinion on this issue,” Simpson said. “Gun ownership in America has been a recognized right under our Constitution since its ratification.” The case has been appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court and is scheduled to be heard early this year as District of Columbia v. Heller. The amicus brief garnered the support 250 Congressmen, 55 Senators, and the President of the Senate, Dick Cheney. “Our brief clearly outlines to the Supreme Court that throughout history Congress has explicitly affirmed that the Second Amendment is not limited to militias, but is in fact an individual right.” Simpson said. “There is no doubt that the Supreme Court’s decision will profoundly impact the rights of American gun owners. At such a pivotal time I am proud to lend my voice to support Americans’ Constitutional rights,” Simpson said. The brief was filed with the Supreme Court last Friday and has the support of the National Rifle Association (NRA).
02.07.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement after voting against the economic stimulus package this evening. “Our nation would be far better off by passing permanent tax reductions than by offering one time rebates to a select group,” said Simpson. “Congress needs to look at some real, long-term solutions. Instead, they issue ‘small bandages’ that only allow the problem to get more severe. Adding $150 billion to our national debt is not the answer.”
02.01.2008	“February is National Children’s Dental Health Month, during which dentists and oral healthcare providers work together to raise awareness about the importance of oral health. As a part of their awareness efforts, dentists and dental hygienists from across the country and in Idaho join together and volunteer their time to provide free care to children. “As a dentist, I understand the need for children to receive proper dental care. This includes going to the dentist regularly for check-ups and treatment when problems arise. Oral health is critical to a person’s overall health and means more than healthy teeth. Research continues to show that many diseases and conditions show themselves in the mouth. For people who don’t have access to dental care, oral disease is almost 100% inevitable—and almost 100% preventable. “This is particularly heartbreaking when it affects our children. Children with poor oral health can have problems eating, sleeping properly, paying attention in school and even smiling, because they suffer constant pain. Unfortunately, many of us don’t realize the extent and severity of untreated dental disease in children. “In Idaho, over 35% of children lack dental insurance. More than 25% of elementary school-aged children in Idaho suffer from untreated tooth decay. If the problems go untreated, a child will often end up in a hospital emergency or operating room, which costs far more than a trip to the dentist. “To help provide children with better oral care, I have introduced two pieces of legislation. HR 1781, the Children's Dental Health Improvement Act of 2007, would improve access to dental care under the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). It also establishes several new grant programs aimed to increase access to oral health care services to our underserved children and children living in rural areas. It would also provide new support for school-based oral health literacy programs and school-linked dental sealant. “HR 2472, the Essential Oral Health Care Act of 2007 will improve the delivery of dental services in state Medicaid and SCHIP programs, provide grants for Community Dental Health Coordinator training programs and volunteer dental projects and provide tax credits for donated dental services. “We are fortunate to have the Caring Foundation in our state. This Idaho-based, non-profit organization that provides free dental care to low-income, uninsured children whose families cannot afford private coverage and receive no government assistance. It has already served over 8,000 children in Idaho and is continuing to reach out to other eligible children throughout the state. “Hundreds of Idaho dentists and oral healthcare providers donate their time and energy to help this cause, and I graciously thank them. While National Children’s Dental Health Month will not solve the issues of access to oral healthcare by itself, it is a great opportunity to raise awareness of the importance of oral health and provide care to our most important and vulnerable resource—our children.”
01.28.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson issued the following statement in response to President George W. Bush’s State of the Union Address: "Now, more than ever, we need to listen to the President’s plea to work together in a bipartisan fashion. America demands it and America deserves it," said Congressman Mike Simpson. "Several requests were made tonight; many need immediate action, like the President’s request to pass a permanent fix to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Our country needs to obtain intelligence information in order to ward off future terrorist attacks. Congress must close this gap in our national security." "The economy does need help, I agree with the President and believe the best way we can start to achieve this goal is to make his tax cuts permanent. If Congress does not act, over 116 million Americans will start paying on average of $1,800 more in annual taxes. The best way to stimulate the economy is to allow individuals to keep more of their hard earned money." "We must also work on federal spending and that means addressing all aspects of the budget, not just earmarks as the President indicated. Entitlement spending is out of control and the longer we wait to address this problem, the more difficult it will become. Congress needs a bipartisan solution to entitlement reform." "Much needs to be done and it is not in the best interest of the country to continue this endless bickering. It will be difficult during a Presidential election year, but I’m hopeful that leadership will work with the President on issues facing our nation."
01.22.2008	“In the years since the 2001 terrorist attacks against our nation, Americans have become increasingly concerned about our ability to know who is coming into our country—and how to keep out those who wish to do us harm. In 2004, the 9/11 Commission Report examined our nation’s passport system and found that it was unable to ensure the identity of those traveling to and from the United States, severely compromising our national security. In order to address these serious deficiencies, Congress has taken a number of steps to prevent those who wish to do us harm from penetrating our borders. “As you make your travel plans for this year, it is important to take into account the changes that are being made to ensure that all individuals entering the U.S. have secure and viable travel documents. Earlier this year, the Department of Homeland Security began requiring all individuals traveling between the United States and Canada or Mexico by plane, including young children, to have valid identification documents. Beginning January 31, 2008, this requirement will extend to ALL travel within North America. “This means that all travelers will need to present appropriate documentation when entering the United States through land and sea ports of entry. All U.S. citizens, including young children, must present proof of citizenship, such as a birth certificate, and adults age 19 and older must also present a valid driver’s license or other government-issued photo ID. “A U.S. passport fulfills both of these requirements, and as enhanced border security measures continue to be implemented, I strongly recommend applying for a passport, even if you are not currently planning an international trip. If you already have a passport, take the time to check its expiration date and apply for a renewal if necessary. Having the appropriate travel documents will ensure that your trip starts out smoothly. “Earlier this year, dramatically increased passport demand made it difficult to obtain a new or renewed passport in a timely manner. I was able to work closely with the U.S. Department of State to ensure that Idahoans had their passports in hand before the traveled, and I deeply appreciate the efforts by the State Department to address the huge influx of passport applications. As a result of these efforts, the turn-around time for a passport has been reduced back to 4-6 weeks. It is always a good idea to have a valid passport, and if you have questions about applying I encourage you to visit www.travel.state.gov or contact one of my offices for more information.”
01.11.2008	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announces changes in his District office. The addition of a new Congressional Staffer in the Pocatello Office will help serve constituents of not only Bannock County, but Bear Lake, Bingham, Caribou, Franklin, Oneida and Power. Steve Brown is Simpson’s newest Regional Director. He will be able to hit the ground running as he joined Simpson’s staff after serving Senator Craig for almost 6 years in a similar capacity. Brown is the Chairman of the Pocatello Development Authority and a Member of the Bannock Development Corporation. The Pocatello office is located at 275 S. 5th Ave. #275, Pocatello, phone 208-233-2222. Amy Sorensen has been promoted to Simpson’s casework director. She oversees all dealings between constituents and federal agencies, such as Veterans Benefits, Internal Revenue Service, Social Security, and more. She will operate this function out of Blackfoot. For constituents who need help finding their way through a federal agency, they may e-mail Amy at amy.sorensen@mail.house.gov, phone 208-220-6273 or write to 51 N. Broadway, #108, Blackfoot, ID, 83221. “Amy, Steve and the rest of my staff know that their number one job is to serve the residents of the Second Congressional District,” said Simpson. “I believe we will be able to enhance our opportunities to serve constituents by hiring Steve Brown and promoting Amy Sorensen. They both have extensive Idaho roots and knowledge in their areas of expertise.”
01.08.2008	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson sent a letter today to Secretary Michael Leavitt requesting an expedited release of funds for the Special Olympic 2009 World Winter Games to be held in Idaho. Typically host sites for the Games are named four years in advance. However, the original 2009 host, Sarajevo, was unable to fulfill its obligation. The Special Olympics then awarded the Games to Idaho, just 24 months in advance, which left the State an extremely condensed timeframe to raise money and prepare for the event. “The federal funding included in this legislation will provide the state with vital funding needed to successfully host the Games,” wrote Craig and Simpson. “Because the Games were provided with such limited planning time, it is critical that the funds be released in a timely and expeditious manner.” The FY2008 Consolidated Appropriations Bill included $7,500,000 for these Games. This event will attract more than 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. It will also be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the State of Idaho.
12.20.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson supported legislation to provide tax relief to 23 million Americans who were slated to be subject to the Alterative Minimum Tax (AMT) this year. H.R. 3996, which provides temporary relief from the AMT for one year, was passed by the House of Representatives with a vote of 352-64 late Wednesday. “The AMT is one of the worst provisions in our tax code, allowing the federal government to tax individuals at an arbitrary rate and forcing millions of American families to pay higher taxes,” Simpson said. “It was crucial that we passed a clean bill to protect these families from this tax hike before the end of the year.” The AMT was originally established in 1969 to ensure that multi-millionaires could not itemize their taxes away, but the law was never indexed for inflation. Because of this mistake, even though most of the loopholes that originally prompted creation of the AMT have been closed, millions of middle class Americans are threatened with a huge tax hike each year. “Our nation’s tax policy has reached a crisis point with regards to the AMT,” Simpson said. “I strongly support repealing our complicated tax system, but I do not believe that enacting a tax increase in order to prevent another tax increase is good policy. American taxpayers should not have to pay for Congress’s mistake.” Congress passed a Senate amendment H.R. 3996 that removed provisions to raise taxes in order to pay for the AMT fix on Thursday, but not before House Democrats delayed passage of the fix for months. Because the one-year tax relief bill did not pass before the Department of Treasury printed the tax forms for 2007, taxpayers will likely wait months longer than usual to receive refund checks. “Taxpayers have the right to receive as much of their income as possible,” said Simpson. “This fix should have happened months ago, but because of political games it was a last minute maneuver. These kind of tactics need to end, the American people deserve better.” Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of legislation, H.R. 3818, that would permanently eliminate the AMT without adding new taxes. He is also a cosponsor of legislation to permanently extend tax credits for families, teachers, and investors.
12.19.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson today praised the bi-partisan work of the Senate and House of Representatives in passing a final spending package that delivers on many critical priorities for the State of Idaho and provides $70 billion in funding for the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. President Bush has indicated he will sign the legislation into law. “This bill is the result of some fierce Congressional debates, but reflects a victory for the President and Republicans in Congress, who forced Democrats to restrain federal spending,” said Senator Larry Craig. “The President exercised his veto authority to hold down spending, resulting in a final package that meets his requirements for fiscal restraint while providing support for worthwhile programs in Idaho and elsewhere.” “The Special Olympics World Winter Games will see a significant infusion of cash with the passage of this legislation and it couldn’t come at a better time,” said Congressman Simpson. “It’s also important to note the broad impact this legislation will have on Idaho’s schools, colleges, hospitals, roads, fields, forests, and communities. The bill will touch virtually every Idahoan in some way.” The bill contains critical funding for the following Idaho priorities: Special Olympics World Winter Games will receive $7.5 million. The Treasure Valley Detox Center will receive $565,000. The Idaho Department of Agriculture’s Potato Cyst Nematode Program gets $9.6 million. The Idaho National Laboratories Next Generation Nuclear Plant receives $116 million. Environmental remediation efforts at the Idaho National Laboratory receive $513 million. The Boise Airport effort to construct a new Air Traffic Control Tower receives $8.9 million. The cities of Twin Falls, Marsing, Hazelton, St. Anthony, Rexburg, Buhl, Smelterville and the Eastern Idaho Regional Wastewater Authority will share $6,464,000 in infrastructure funding. Agriculture Research funding for Idaho commodities amounts to more than $15.5 million. The Historic Wilson Theater in Rupert will receive $350,000. Gowen Field’s Training Area Railhead will receive $7.615 million Mountain Home Air Force Base’s Logistics Readiness Center will receive $1.593 million The University of Idaho, Boise State University, Idaho State University, the College of Southern Idaho, Lewis-Clark State College, Northwest Nazarene University, and the College of Idaho will share millions of dollars in higher education research projects. St. Luke’s, St. Alphonsus, Madison Memorial Hospital, Teton Valley Hospital, Gritman Medical Center, Franklin County Medical Center, and the North Idaho Rural Health Consortium will share millions of dollars in funding for improved health care services in throughout Idaho. Idaho roads, bridges, and transit infrastructure will receive $11.2 million. The bill now heads to the White House where President Bush has said he will sign it into law. A complete list of Idaho projects is included on the following pages. LHHS/ED · Idaho Special Olympics World Winter Games ($7.5 million) · The Literacy Matters! Program ($292,000) · The College of Idaho (Albertson College) Library Technology Upgrades ($292,000) · SySTEMic Solution: Plant Early for STEM Learning (science, technology, engineering, & math) ($195,000) · The Discovery Center of Idaho ($243,000) · The Idaho Women Work! program ($97,000) · Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory ($243,000) · College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program. ($243,000) · University of Idaho’s Gateway to Math Program. ($121,000) · The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project ($292,000) · The St. Alphonsus Regional Medical Center ($243,000) · The Children’s Home Society of Idaho Bridge Project for Foster Children ($219,000) · Northwest Nazarene University New Nursing Facility Equipment ($438,000) · The Children’s Health Services Expansion; St. Luke’s Regional Medical Center ($487,000) · The University of Idaho Gateway to Math ($121,000) · The North Idaho Rural Health Consortium ($243,000) · Lewis-Clark State College American Indian Students in Leadership of Education ($187,000) · Gritman Medical Center Information Technology Upgrades ($487,000) · Cooperative Telehealth Network at Portneuf Medical Center. ($341,000) · Franklin County Medical Center ($243,000) · Madison County Memorial Hospital Revitalization Project ($243,000) · Teton Valley Hospital Revitalization Project ($243,000) · Treasure Valley Detox Center, United Way ($390,000) HOMELAND SECURITY: · Wildfire Mitigation, Idaho Bureau of Homeland Security ($600,000) ENERGY AND WATER DEVELOPMENT: · Defense Environmental Cleanup at INL ($513 million – a $9 million increase over the President’s request) · Next Generation Nuclear Plant at INL ($116 million – an $80 million increase over the President’s request) · Advanced Test Reactor ($9.6 million increase for transition to a National Scientific User Facility) · INL Buildings 651 and 691 ($14.8 million increase) · Advanced Fuel Cycle Initiative ($181 million) · Rural Idaho Water Projects/Section 595 ($4.064 million) COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE: · CHILD Project ($47,000) · Idaho Department of Corrections ($1,222,000) · Idaho State Police ($1,128,000) · Idaho Department of Corrections Web-Based Offender Information Project ($47,000) · Idaho State Police Criminal Information Sharing System ($470,000) · Nez Perce Program to Combat Child Abuse ($141,000) · Boise State University Improved Hydrologic Modeling Program ($94,000) · Idaho State University Land Management Observation Program ($141,000) · The Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund ($67 million) INTERIOR AND THE ENVIRONMENT: · Noxious Weeds ($1 million) · Boise District Fire Sprinklers ($330,000) · Lemhi River TMDL Road Maintenance ($2.368 million) · Upper Snake/South Fork land acquisition ($1.25 million) · California Condor and Aplomado Falcon ($400,000) · Sage Grouse ($250,000) · Wolf Monitoring ($250,000) · Chesterfield Historic Preservation ($300,000) · Historic Wilson Theater Restoration, Rupert ($200,000) · US-Canada Pacific Salmon Treaty Program ($1.8 million) · National Rural Water Program Multi State ($7.7 million) · Water Systems Council Wellcare ($700,000) · Forest Legacy Gold Creek Ranch ($1.6 million) · Idaho Panhandle NF Avery Ranger Station ($884,000) · Thunder Mountain land acquisition ($900,000) · UI FRAMES ($650,000) · City of Marsing STAG Grant ($432,000) · City of Hazelton STAG Grant ($469,000) · City of St. Anthony STAG Grant ($562,000) · City of Rexburg STAG Grant ($137,000) · City of Buhl STAG Grant ($300,000 · City of Twin Falls STAG Grant for Auger Falls Project ($500,000 AGRICULTURE: · Nez Perce Bio-Control Center ($188,000) · Potato Cyst Nematode Eradication Program ($9.6 million) · Tri-State Predator Control ($993,000) · Hagerman Fish Culture Experiment Station ($700,000) · Aquaculture Research at Aberdeen, ID ($629,000) · National Plant Germplasm Research at Aberdeen, ID ($97,000) · Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research at Corvallis, OR ($646,000) · Rainbow Trout Research at Aberdeen, ID ($1,094,000) · Potato Enhancement Research at Prosser, WA ($288,000) · Sugarbeet Research at Kimberly, ID ($703,000) · Sustainable Feeds Research at Aberdeen, ID ($99,000) · Viticulture Research at Corvallis, OR ($853,000) · Aquaculture Research in ID, WA ($567,000) · Barley for Rural Development Research ($551,000) · Grass Seed Cropping for Sustainable Agriculture ($335,000) · Increasing Shelf Life of Ag Commodities ($647,000) · Potato Cyst Nematode Research ($375,000) · Potato Research Multi State ($1.112 million) · Regional Barley Gene Mapping Program ($506,000) · Small Fruits Research ID, OR, WA ($329,000) · Wood Utilization Multi-State Program ($4.875 million) · Idaho One-Plan ($143,000) · Aegilops Cylindrica ID, WA ($263,000) · STEEP III Water Quality in the Northwest ($476,000) · Greater Yellowstone Interagency Brucellosis Committee ($697,000) · Johnes Disease ($10,613,000) · Cool Season Legume Research ($419,000) · Little Wood River Irrigation District ($144,000) TRANSPORTATION/HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT: · Boise Airport Control Tower ($8,892,520) · Boise Airport Planning/Design to widen/lengthen runway ($750,000) · US 30 McCammon to Topaz Bridge ($350,000) · City of Rocks Back Country Byway ($3,950,000) · FH 24 Banks to Lowman ($500,000) · I-84 Curtis Road to Broadway Interchange ($1.5 million) · CSI Student Safety Initiative ($480,000) · I-84, Exit 29 Franklin Road ($480,000) · Lewiston Partnership Project ($240,000) · US 95 Thorncreek Road to Moscow ($500,000) · Idaho Transit Coalition for buses and bus facilities ($3,212,000) · Treasure Valley Transit Facilities ($288,000) · Custer County for Purchase of a Middle School Building ($100,000) · Historic Wilson Theater Restoration, Rupert ($150,000) · City of Boise Geothermal System Expansion ($175,000) · Boys and Girls Club of the Magic Valley, Buhl ($175,000) · Development Workshop, Inc ($300,000) · Treasure Valley Detox Center, United Way ($175,000) · Pocatello Community Rec Center ($140,000) · Western Elmore County Recreation Center ($300,000) MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS AFFAIRS: · Gowen Field Training Area Railhead ($7.615 million) · Orchard Training Area Urban Assault Course ($1.7 million) · Mountain Home Logistics Readiness Center($1.593 million) AGRICULTURE DISASTER PROGRAMS: · Crop Disaster Program signup extended to December 31, 2007 · Livestock Indemnity Program signup extended to December 31, 2007 · Livestock Compensation Program signup extended to December 31, 2007 Some of these projects may be subjected to small, across-the-board decreases of two percent or less to meet tight budget caps. Please contact Craig’s or Simpson's offices for details on any of these initiatives.
12.17.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson, both members of their respective Appropriations Committees, announced the inclusion of several Idaho-specific projects in the Fiscal Year 2008 year-end spending package. Craig commented approvingly, "Idaho will be a better place because of these projects. Strong transportation infrastructure and a clean, livable environment are catalysts for a strong economy. The upgrades at the Boise Airport will help attract business to Idaho, never mind the godsend to anyone who flies in and out of Boise, and the improvements at Gowen will improve our military's readiness and help ensure Idaho's facilities survive long into the future. " “Economic opportunity largely rests on our ability to transport goods and people in a safe and efficient manner. The new traffic control tower coming to the Boise Airport is desperately needed for safety and to keep up with the growth of the Treasure Valley,” said Simpson. “These modest investments in Idaho’s communities and infrastructure will help assist ongoing state and local efforts to bring new opportunities to our state.” Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Boise Airport Control Tower - $8,892,520 Boise Airport Planning/Design to widen/lengthen runway - $750,000 US 30 McCammon to Topaz Bridge - $350,000 City of Rocks Back Country Byway - $3,950,000 FH 24 Banks to Lowman - $500,000 I-84 Curtis Road to Broadway Interchange - $1.5 million CSI Student Safety Initiative - $480,000 I-84, Exit 29 Franklin Road - $480,000 Lewiston Partnership Project - $240,000 US 95 Thorncreek Road to Moscow - $500,000 Idaho Transit Coalition - $3,212,000 Treasure Valley Transit Facilities - $288,000 City of Boise Geothermal System $175,000 Pocatello Community Rec Center $140,000 Western Elmore County Recreation Center $300,000 Military Construction Gowen Field Training Area Railhead - $7.615 million Orchard Training Area Urban Assault Course - $1.7 million Mountain Home Logistics Readiness Center - $1.593 million Environment Noxious Weeds - $1 million Boise District Fire Sprinklers - $330,000 Lemhi River TMDL Road Maintenance - $2.368 million Upper Snake/South Fork land acquisition - $1.25 million California Condor and Aplomado Falcon - $400,000 Sage Grouse - $250,000 Wolf Monitoring - $250,000 Chesterfield Historic Preservation - $300,000 US-Canada Pacific Salmon Treaty Program - $1.8 million National Rural Water Program Multi State - $7.7 million Water Systems Council Wellcare - $700,000 Forest Legacy Gold Creek Ranch - $1.6 million Idaho Panhandle NF Avery Ranger Station - $884,000 Thunder Mountain land acquisition - $900,000 UI FRAMES - $650,000 BSU Improved Hydrologic Modeling - $94,000 ISU Land Management observation program - $141,000 Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund - $67 million Some of these projects may be subjected to small, across-the-board decreases of two percent or less to meet tight budget caps. The House and Senate are scheduled to vote on the year-end spending package this week. It is expected to pass both chambers before being sent to the President to be signed. Please contact Craig's or Simpson's offices for details on any of these projects.
12.17.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson today highlighted dozens of important agriculture, research, infrastructure, and economic development projects that will be headed to Idaho as part of a year-end spending package being finalized in Washington, DC. “I’m pleased with the assistance our ag producers will get to mitigate natural disasters and combat pests like the Potato Cyst Nematode. In addition to the help coming to our farmers, our communities and our laboratories benefit from this bill, too,” said Craig. “They’ll see cleaner drinking water, improved wastewater systems, and cutting edge energy technologies, to name a few. We nearly doubled funding for the Next Generation Nuclear Project (NGNP), and this bill paves the way for Idaho to host yet another first-of-its-kind reactor by 2018.” “The funding included in this bill is critical to a number of Idaho schools, institutions, communities, and citizens,” said Simpson. “The Potato Cyst Nematode Eradication funding and the agriculture disaster assistance package will assist our state farmers and ranchers through a difficult year of drought, disease, and wildfire. Idaho National Laboratory will see its current research reactor and future demonstration reactor both receive critical infusions of money. And communities across the state, from Marsing to Rexburg, will see their aging water and wastewater infrastructure improved.” Among the most prominent projects included in the bill were the following: $9.6 million for the Idaho State Department of Agriculture’s Potato Cyst Nematode Eradication program in Idaho potato fields. This funding is a critical component of State and Federal efforts to assist Idaho farmers in combating Potato Cyst Nematode. The bill includes the extension of agriculture disaster programs until December 31, 2007. Eligible programs include the Crop Disaster Program, the Livestock Compensation Program, and the Livestock Indemnity Program. Idaho farmers and ranchers impacted by drought and wildfires are encouraged to contact your local Farm Service Agency office to determine if you qualify for these programs. The Idaho Congressional Delegation had requested these extensions early this year. $116 million for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) at the Idaho National Laboratory. The NGNP program will develop an advanced gas reactor that can be used to produce both electricity and process heat for a variety of applications. $9.8 million to transition the Idaho National Laboratory’s Advanced Test Reactor in a National Scientific User Facility. $500,000 for the Auger Falls Wastewater Treatment Project in Twin Falls. This is the third year of funding for the project bringing a total federal investment of $1.6 million. Other communities receiving water project funding include Marsing ($432,000), Hazelton ($469,000), St. Anthony ($562,000), Rexburg ($137,000), and Buhl ($300,000). $4,064,000 through the Army Corps of Engineers Section 595 (Rural Idaho) Program will be used to complete work on a municipal wastewater system in Smelterville and continue work on the Eastern Idaho Regional Wastewater Treatment Plant. Additional Idaho projects supported by Craig or Simpson in the bill include: AGRICULTURE FUNDING: Nez Perce Bio-Control Center $188,000 Tri-State Predator Control $993,000 Hagerman Fish Culture Experiment Station $700,000 Aquaculture Research at Aberdeen, ID $629,000 National Plant Germplasm Research at Aberdeen, ID $97,000 Northwest Center for Small Fruits Research at Corvallis, OR $646,000 Rainbow Trout Research at Aberdeen, ID $1,094,000 Potato Enhancement Research at Prosser, WA $288,000 Sugarbeet Research at Kimberly, ID $703,000 Sustainable Feeds Research at Aberdeen, ID $99,000 Viticulture Research at Corvallis, OR $853,000 Aquaculture Research in ID, WA $567,000 Barley for Rural Development Research $551,000 Grass Seed Cropping for Sustainable Agriculture $335,000 Increasing Shelf Life of Ag Commodities $647,000 Potato Cyst Nematode Research $375,000 Potato Research Multi State $1.112 million Regional Barley Gene Mapping Program $506,000 Small Fruits Research ID, OR, WA $329,000 Wood Utilization Multi-State Program $4.875 million Idaho One-Plan $143,000 Aegilops Cylindrica ID, WA $263,000 STEEP III Water Quality in the Northwest $476,000 Greater Yellowstone Interagency Brucellosis Committee $697,000 Cool Season Legume Research $419,000 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVE (EDI) FUNDING: $100,000 for Custer County for the Custer County Economic Development Initiative $350,000 for Renaissance Art Center, Inc in Rupert for renovations to the historic Wilson Theater $175,000 for Boys and Girls Club of Magic Valley for construction of a Boys and Girls Club facility in the town of Buhl $300,000 for Development Workshop, Inc, Upper Valley Industries Plant Facility, Idaho Falls for planning and design of a new facility to provide job services for people with disabilities $300,000 for Western Elmore County Recreation District, Mountain Home Community Center Complex, Mountain Home for planning design and construction of an energy efficient, multi-use community center The bill will be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives tonight and is on the schedule for the U.S. Senate tomorrow. If passed by both chambers, the legislation will be sent to President Bush for his signature. Some of these projects may be subjected to small, across-the-board decreases of two percent or less to meet tight budget caps. Please contact Craig’s or Simpson's offices for details on any of these initiatives.
12.17.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson announced today that the House and Senate have agreed on the final version of legislation to fund most federal government agencies for fiscal year 2008. In the bill, many Idaho healthcare and education issues were addressed. “Education and healthcare help form the foundation of a strong community and a thriving state,” said Craig. “Healthy, well-educated children will be in a better position to succeed when they enter the workforce, and this bill recognizes that. I’m confident these projects will have a direct impact – for the better – on the quality of life here in Idaho.” “By investing in our children, we shape our future,” said Simpson. “We need to address some critical needs of education, healthcare, and safety - not only for Idaho, but for the entire nation. This bill addresses the growing concern we have about sexual predators by providing funding to web-based offender programs. These three components are essential for our children’s well-being.” The Community Detox Center of the Treasure Valley will receive $390,000 to pay for a 24-hour facility. The proposed center will contain 36 beds for indigent patients to be treated by professionals. A typical stay for sobering is 12 hours and typical stays for detoxification will be 5-6 days. “The Treasure Valley is growing rapidly and there is a great need for a Community Detox Center,” said Craig and Simpson. “We are grateful to be part of directing federal funding to projects that impact Idaho.” Idaho Education Programs in the bill include: The Literacy Matters! Program ($292,000) The College of Idaho (Albertson College) Library Technology Upgrades ($292,000) SySTEMic Solution: Plant Early for STEM Learning (science, technology, engineering, & math) ($195,000) The Discovery Center of Idaho ($243,000) The Idaho Women Work! program($97,000) Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory ($243,000) College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program. ($243,000) Idaho Healthcare Programs in the bill include: The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project ($292,000) The St. Alphonsus Regional Medical Center ($243,000) The Children’s Home Society of Idaho Bridge Project for Foster Children ($219,000) Northwest Nazarene University New Nursing Facility Equipment ($438,000) The Children’s Health Services Expansion; St. Luke’s Regional Medical Center ($487,000) The University of Idaho Gateway to Math ($121,000) The North Idaho Rural Health Consortium ($243,000) Lewis-Clark State College American Indian Students in Leadership of Education ($187,000) Gritman Medical Center Information Technology Upgrades ($487,000) Cooperative Telehealth Network at Portneuf Medical Center. ($341,000) Franklin County Medical Center ($243,000) Madison County Memorial Hospital Revitalization Project ($243,000) Teton Valley Hospital Revitalization Project ($243,000) Other Programs in the bill include: CHILD Project ($47,000) Idaho Department of Corrections ($1,222,000) Idaho State Police ($1,128,000) Idaho Department of Corrections Web-Based Offender Information Project ($47,000) Idaho State Police Criminal Information Sharing System ($470,000) Nez Perce Program to Combat Child Abuse ($141,000) The bill will be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives tonight and is on the schedule for the U.S. Senate tomorrow. If passed by both chambers, the legislation will be sent to President Bush for his signature. Some of these projects may be subjected to small, across-the-board decreases of two percent or less to meet tight budget caps. Please contact Craig’s or Simpson's offices for details on any of these initiatives. The bill will be considered in the U.S. House of Representatives tonight and is on the schedule for the U.S. Senate tomorrow. If passed by both chambers, the legislation will be sent to President Bush for his signature. Some of these projects may be subjected to small, across-the-board decreases of two percent or less to meet tight budget caps. Please contact Craig’s or Simpson's offices for details on any of these initiatives.
12.16.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson announced today that the House and Senate have agreed to a final funding amount of $7.5 million for the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Idaho on the final version of legislation funding most agencies of the federal government for fiscal year 2008. “I am very pleased that Members of both parties recognize how significant this contribution is to ensuring the success of the Special Olympics Winter Games in Idaho,” said Craig. “This commitment of federal assistance was critical to helping jumpstart efforts to raise the remaining money needed from the private sector. With this commitment in place, Idaho can look forward to putting on a world-class event.” “While it’s unfortunate that the President’s veto of a previous bill has cost the Idaho Games $500,000 I am still gratified that my Congressional colleagues on both sides of the aisle have done everything they could to provide us with the most funding possible,” said Simpson. “We’ll now turn our attention to securing additional private sector contributions, gathering as many volunteers as possible, and putting on Games that will make all of Idaho and our nation proud.” According to the organizers of the Games, holding the event in Idaho will require at least $28 million in total contributions, with the federal government’s share representing just a portion of the total needs. The event will attract more than 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. This will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the state of Idaho. Craig and Simpson are members of the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations which crafted the year-end spending package. Once the bill is approved by the House and Senate, it will be sent to President Bush for his consideration.
12.12.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson is pleased to announce the following men and women as official nominees to the United States military academies. “It is an honor to nominate Idaho students to the Military Academies,” said Simpson. “I am always impressed by the quality and character of our youth in Idaho. Each person is a fine example of what our state has to offer. They are bright, articulate, and ready to serve.” Students were selected on the quality of their application, scholastic achievement, references and extra-curricular activities. While a Congressional nomination does not guarantee acceptance to the Service Academies, many of Idaho’s nominees are selected for an appointment. The following students were nominated to either the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colo.; the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York; the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland; or the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point, New York. Nominees are: BOISE Pedro Cortabitarte, Air Force, Naval Jeffery McCullough, Air Force, Naval Ryan McDonald, Military, Merchant Marine Kaitlyn Heller, Merchant Marine MURTAUGH Bryan Ashton, Air Force, Naval FIRTH Wade Rushton, Naval, Military, Merchant Marine IDAHO FALLS Anthony Caliva, Air Force, Naval, Military Jacob Bean, Naval Sam Keele, Military GOODING Megan Pierson, Air Force POCATELLO Jacob Thornell, Air Force, Navy, Military, Merchant Marine HOWE Kati Isham, Air Force RUPERT Shelby Coats, Air Force, Naval, Military SUGAR CITY Tyson Rydalch, Air Force, Naval WENDELL Jason Dimond, Military, Merchant Marine EDEN Matthew Phillips, Air Force JEROME Alex Barber, Military, Merchant Marine BUHL Jacob Busby, Naval
12.10.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues today by requesting House leadership pass legislation to preserve rural health care access to high quality health care services. Members of the House Rural Health Care Coalition, of which Simpson is a member, requested leadership to act on this issue before Congress adjourns for the year. The letter specifically requests to extend the rural health payment adjustments that were established in the Medicare Modernization Act, many of which have now expired or are set to expire at the end of this year. “Our rural communities should have access to quality care without being required to drive long distances unnecessarily. We should applaud our hospitals for bringing health care directly to the patients in their communities rather than punishing them with lower reimbursement rates,” Simpson said. Specifically, the House Rural Health Care Coalition asked leadership to include in legislation Congress may consider in the coming weeks an extension of the critical rural health provisions described below: Rural Hospitals: Our rural hospitals provide essential inpatient, outpatient and post-acute care, including skilled nursing, home health and rehabilitation services, to nearly 9 million Medicare beneficiaries. We support an extension of Section 508 of the MMA which provides for the geographical wage index reclassification for over 120 hospitals which provides for greater wage parity within a state in order to address increasingly competitively labor markets. In addition, it is critical that Congress ensures that small rural hospitals continue to be reimbursed for their costs for their laboratory services and preserves outpatient hold harmless payments for sole community and small rural hospitals. We also support an extension of direct billing under Medicare for certain grandfathered labs for the technical component of pathology services provided to certain rural hospitals. Rural Doctors and Practitioners: Only ten percent of physicians practice in rural America even though more than a quarter of the population lives in these areas. In order to help recruit and retain physicians where they are needed most, it is imperative that we continue to provide a five percent incentive payment for doctors and practitioners practicing in underserved areas as well as maintain the 1.0 floor on the physician work geographic practice cost index (GPCI). Rural Ambulance and Home Health: It costs rural ambulance and home health providers more than their urban counterparts to provide critical services to patients because of the greater distances rural providers travel to reach those in their large service areas. In fact, many of our rural ambulance providers are staffed primarily by volunteers and our rural home health providers are struggling to stay afloat. That is why it is necessary to ensure that rural home health providers continue to receive an additional five percent and ambulance providers an additional two percent of their Medicare reimbursement in order to help cover the costs of serving patients located in these areas.
11.15.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today to override a Presidential Veto concerning the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations conference Report. This legislation contained funding for several Idaho projects including money for the International Special Olympics and the Boise Detox Center. In order to override a Presidential veto, a two-thirds majority is necessary. This attempt to override the President’s veto failed with a vote of 277-141. The vetoed bill contained $8 million for the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Idaho. According to the organizers of the Games, holding the event in Idaho will require at least $28 million in total contributions, with the federal government’s share representing just a portion of the total needs. The event will attract more than 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. This will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the state of Idaho. “While the International Special Olympics is being held in Idaho, it is our entire nation that will be represented,” said Simpson. “In the past when these events were held in the United States, federal funding has always been made available. I will continue working closely with my colleagues to secure this much needed funding in order to help Idaho host the 2009 Games.” Another key project that was killed is the Community Detox Center; United Way of Treasure Valley. It is a proposed facility for 24-hour medically monitored alcohol and drug sobering station and 36-bed detox center for indigent patients treated by professionals. The bill contained $400,000 for this much needed project. “The Treasure Valley’s rapid growth demonstrates an immediate need for the Community Detox Center,” said Simpson. “We need facilities like this in order to keep our communities safe and a great place to live. I am hopeful we can resolve the issues before Congress and get these funding bills passed into law.” Other Idaho Items in the Conference Report include: The Literacy Matters! Program The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project The St. Alphonsus Regional Medical Center Project The Children’s Home Society of Idaho Bridge Project for Foster Children The College of Idaho (Albertson College) Library Technology Upgrades Northwest Nazarene University New Nursing Facility Equipment. The Children’s Health Services Expansion; St. Luke’s Regional Medical Center. SySTEMic Solution: Plant Early for STEM Learning (science, technology, engineering, & math The Discovery Center of Idaho. Teton Valley Hospital Revitalization Project Advanced Clinical Simulation College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program Cooperative Telehealth Network at Portneuf Medical Center. Franklin County Medical Center The Idaho Women Work! program Madison County Memorial Hospital Revitalization Project. The University of Idaho Gateway to Math The North Idaho Rural Health Lewis-Clark State College American Indian Students in Leadership of Education Gritman Medical Center Information Technology Upgrades
11.15.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today voted to support mortgage reform legislation. H.R. 3915, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act of 2007, passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a vote of 292-127. “The recent credit crisis caused in the home mortgage industry has sent shock waves through our economy,” said Simpson. “We will continue to feel the impact of this predicament for many months and Congress should ensure that there is adequate transparency in the subprime loan industry.” In recent years, the proportion of subprime loans compared with all home loans has risen dramatically from 8.6 percent in 2002 to almost a quarter of all home loans in 2006. Subprime mortgages are often taken out by borrowers with weak credit history who would otherwise not qualify for a home loan. “While subprime loans have given a number of American families the opportunity for homeownership, there is serious concern that these mortgages are not well-regulated and that borrowers were not sufficiently informed about the risks of borrowing at subprime rates,” Simpson continued. H.R. 3915 establishes minimum standards for state licensing and registration of mortgage loan originators. The bill also sets forth a duty of care standard by requiring mortgage originators to make reasonable determination that the consumer has the ability to repay the loan. “This legislation preserves the role of states in the mortgage licensing system and allows states like Idaho to continue efforts to modernize oversight of the mortgage industry,” Simpson said. “The bill also expressly prohibits class action lawsuits in most cases, providing adequate remedies for victims of predatory lending without leaving lenders vulnerable to frivolous lawsuits.”
11.14.2007	Congressional members from Idaho, Wyoming, and Montana sent a letter today to the Director of the National Park Service, encouraging her to continue to allow winter public access to Yellowstone National Park by the means of snowmobile use. “As residents of the Intermountain West we share a love of the outdoors and the beautiful lands our region offers,” the Delegations wrote in the letter. “As such, the preservation of our national parks is something we are deeply concerned about. We recognize that these parks require skillful and careful management to ensure that future generations will experience these national treasures.” The three state Delegations agree that some of the nation’s most valued possessions are the nation’s parks. By allowing reasonable, managed snowmobile use, the public will also be able to enjoy these treasures in the winter months. The text of the letter follows: Dear Director Bomar: We are writing to convey our concern for the continued public winter access to Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks and the John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway. As residents of the intermountain west we share a love of the outdoors and the beautiful lands our region offers. As such, the preservation of our national parks is something we are deeply concerned about. We recognize that these parks require skillful and careful management to ensure that future generations will experience these national treasures. While we are obligated to preserve these parks for future generations, we feel there is also an obligation to the current generation to allow access to these public lands. We believe that reasonably managed snowmobile use, which allows the public to enjoy some of our nation's most valued possessions, can be consistent with the goals of conservation and preservation. Therefore, we strongly encourage the Park Service to maintain a significant level of oversnow access to Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks and the John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Memorial Parkway. We fully recognize this is a complex issue. We appreciate the efforts of the Park Service thus far, and look forward to working with you on this important matter.
11.14.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today that would transfer four federally-owned parcels of land in the Auger Falls area for the creation of a community park and recreation area. Simpson has been working with the City for several years to secure federal funding and support for the creation of the park. Simpson’s legislation would transfer to the City of Twin Falls four parcels of land (approximately 165 acres) scattered throughout the Auger Falls area and owned by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM). The bill stipulates that the land must be used for the development of the City’s public park concept and specifically prohibits any commercial or residential development on the transferred land. “I believe strongly in the City’s vision to make the Auger Falls area accessible to the public and this bill will help the City accomplish that goal,” said Simpson. “The Auger Falls area is a spectacular undeveloped landscape deep in the Snake River Canyon but off-limits to most of the public. By consolidating ownership of the land, we can help facilitate both the preservation and enjoyment of this area for current and future generations. I greatly appreciate the cooperation of Mayor Clow and City staff in preparing this bill and look forward to working with them to make their vision a reality.” "I greatly appreciate Congressman Simpson’s continued interest and support for the Auger Falls project,” said Twin Falls Mayor Lance Clow. “His introduction of legislation to assist in transferring BLM lands to the City as well as providing federal funding for the project greatly advances the City's efforts to create habitat restoration and recreational opportunities at Auger Falls all while reducing the amount of phosphorus flowing into the Snake River." Simpson obtained $1.1 million in federal grants for the Auger Falls project in previous years and has secured an additional $500,000 for the project in legislation currently pending before Congress.
11.09.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson voted today against H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, a bill that raises taxes by $70 billion to temporarily fix the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) for one year. Despite strong opposition from Congressman Simpson and other Republicans, the legislation was able to pass the House of Representatives with a vote of 216-193. “Our nation’s tax policy has reached a crisis point with regards to the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). It is abundantly clear that the AMT no longer serves its original purpose,” said Simpson. “I fully support repealing this arbitrary and complicated tax system, but I do not believe that increasing taxes to compensate for the AMT is the correct solution.” Congressman Simpson is a cosponsor of H.R. 3818, The Taxpayer Choice Act. Unlike H.R. 3996, which is unlikely to pass the Senate in its current form and would be vetoed by the President, H.R. 3818 eliminates the AMT without adding new taxes. The AMT allows the federal government to tax individuals at an arbitrary rate, regardless of the deductions and tax credits they may be able to claim. The AMT forces millions of American families to pay more taxes than they otherwise would and harms economic growth. It was originally established in 1969 to ensure that multi-millionaires could not itemize their taxes away. Since then, inflation and economic growth have made many middle-class people subject to AMT. In 1970, the first year the AMT was implemented, 20,000 taxpayers paid the AMT. Without congressional intervention, 23 million people will be subject to the AMT this year. “Taxpayers have the right to receive as much of their income as possible,” said Simpson. “Tax relief gives Americans back their own money, earned through hard work and sacrifice and it allows them the dignity of investing their money as they think best.” H.R. 3818 comprehensively reforms our current tax system in order to eliminate the AMT and provide individual taxpayers with a simplified alternative tax system. Most importantly, H.R. 3818 does not increase taxes to pay for tax reforms. “The robust economic growth in this nation over the past few years is proof that individual Americans use and invest their dollars much more wisely than does the federal government. This is why I strongly support making the tax cuts passed by Congress in 2001 and 2003 permanent and passing real tax relief, not just rhetoric,” said Simpson. Congressman Simpson is also a cosponsor of legislation to permanently extend tax credits for families, teachers, and investors, and H.R. 510, the Tax Code Termination Act.
11.07.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues and voted in favor of Omnibus Conference Report on H.R. 3043 -- 2008 Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations that passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 269-142 late last night. The bill provides federal funding for several Idaho Projects including Mt. Home Air Force Base Logistics Readiness Center. Simpson is a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and was appointed as a conferee to final negotiations on the bill. In 1999, the existing Logistic Supply Center was condemned and for the past 8 years, 60% of the base supply function has been operating on a temporary basis. After the building was deemed no longer usable, the former commissary along with 8 other buildings have been fulfilling the role this building once performed. By not having the operations in one place it has created significant delays in troop and equipment mobilization. "Mt Home Air Force Base is vital to our military and they have had to be resourceful for too long. In September, the roof of the old Commissary building collapsed making their temporary structure unusable not to mention unsafe," said Simpson. "Funding for this is a top priority for me and I’m grateful for the progress we’ve made." Secretary Robert Gates recently named MHAFB as the Air Force’s best installation and awarded it the 2007 Commander-in-Chief’s Annual Award for Installation Excellence. Both the existing Center and its temporary location are now condemned and pose serious safety hazards. The lack of facility creates significant delays in troop and equipment mobilization and poses serious challenges to the mission readiness capabilities of the installation. "The 366 Fighter Wing at Mountain Home Air Force Base appreciates the tremendous support from Congressman Simpson and the entire Idaho Congressional Delegation. The $1.6 million in design funding for a new Logistics Readiness Center will help us resolve our Wing's #1 mission facility requirement," said Col. James Browne, Commander, 366th Fighter Wing. "The state of the art design will assist us in building a new $17.2 million dollar, 94,000 SF facility directly supporting our wartime mobility functions, and in providing critical support to the Combatant Commander's continued fight in the Global War on Terror." The Senate is scheduled to consider the Omnibus Conference Report later this week.
11.01.2007	Idaho Senator Larry Craig and Congressman Mike Simpson have secured a total of $8 million for the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games in Idaho on the final version of legislation funding the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. The $8 million total brings federal funding for the Idaho-held Games in line with that received by other States in previous years. Craig secured $3 million for the Games in the original Senate-passed version of the legislation. Over the past several weeks, Simpson secured bi-partisan support on the House side for an additional $5 million bringing total Idaho Games funding to $8 million. “With this conference report, Congress has clearly demonstrated support for the 2009 games in Idaho,” Craig said. “Mike and I were proud to work this issue on both sides of the Capitol, and I think that teamwork paid off. This was an important step.” “Given the quick timeframe in which Idaho must get ready for the Games, this imminent infusion of federal assistance was absolutely necessary to ensure a world-class event,” said Simpson. “Senator Craig and I are thrilled to have the strong support of our colleagues on the Committee for the Special Olympics World Winter Games and are appreciative of the efforts of Jim Schmit and everyone else associated with the Games in helping us secure these critical funds.” According to the organizers of the Games, holding the event in Idaho will require at least $28 million in total contributions, with the federal government’s share representing just a portion of the total needs. The event will attract more than 3,000 athletes from over 100 nations to compete in seven Winter Olympic-type sporting events. This will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the state of Idaho. “Senator Craig and Congressman Simpson have been relentless in their support of the 2009 World Games taking place in Idaho. Their hard work pursuing federal funding will help make these games a world-class event for the athletes, families, spectators and volunteers,” said Jim Schmit, Qwest Idaho President and Chairman of the Games Fundraising Committee. Craig and Simpson are both members of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and were appointed as conferees to final negotiations on the bill which concluded today. The bill will be considered in its final form in the coming weeks by the House and Senate and will eventually be sent to President Bush.
10.31.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson today announced the introduction of HR 3825, the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act of 2007. This act will improve the newborn screening process. Newborn screening in the United States is not uniform. In fact, more than 1,000 babies are born each year with a detectable and treatable disorder that goes unscreened. And unfortunately, too often inadequate follow-up is provided for many conditions that are revealed. "Over 4 million babies are born in the United States each year. Using a blood sample from the newborn’s foot identifies infants with genetic or other conditions that can be treated effectively," Simpson said. "This bill gives parents additional resources so that early identification and early treatment can be available for their baby." Each year newborn screening identifies an estimated 3,000 babies with conditions like PKU, sickle cell disease, and homocystinuria that, if left undetected, would have dire consequences including death and long-term disability. The American College of Medical Genetics recommends that every baby born in the United States be screened for 29 specific disorders. The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act seeks to eliminate these unnecessary deaths and severe disabilities by providing grants for the following:Educating parents and health care professionals about newborn screening; Establishing a central clearinghouse for newborn screening information and resources; Directing the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders to continuously update the panel of recommended tests, and encouraging states to uniformly test for all recommended disorders; Providing resources for researchers to develop better detection, prevention and treatment strategies, and for states to expand and improve their newborn screening programs; Developing a national contingency plan for infant screening in the event of a large scale disaster, and Requiring the CDC to ensure the quality of laboratories involved in the newborn testing. Organizations including; the March of Dimes, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Association of Public Health Laboratories agree that better public education about newborn screening is pivotal.
10.26.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleagues in requesting improvements to outdated retirement benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserve. Simpson signed a bipartisan letter addressed to leadership of the House Armed Services Committee pointing out the central role that our National Guard and Reserve troops play in national defense and asking them to modernize their retirement benefits, which are a key tool to improving recruitment and retention among the soldiers. “The National Guard Retirement Policy is outdated and simply unfair,” said Simpson. “We are way overdue in changing these rules and I am hopeful that the committee will take this issue up in the near future.” The letter requests that the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2008 include a provision to reduce the minimum retirement age for National Guard and Reserve members by three months for every 90 days of mobilization in support of a contingency operation on or after September 11, 2001. The bill also allows for a maximum reduction from age 60 to 50 under these requirements. “Only the National Guard must wait until they are 60 to receive retirement immediately upon completion of service,” said Simpson. “The Guard and Reserve play a critical role in U.S. military operations overseas and make enormous sacrifices to protect our country, and their retirement benefits should reflect their service.” The bill will also cost less than previous proposals to reduce the retirement age of the Nation Guard and Reserve; and it targets members who have and will serve in support of the Global War on Terror.
10.25.2007	In today’s rapidly changing and increasingly competitive world, Americans must constantly look for ways to make our country stronger. For decades, we have been the world’s clear superpower. Suddenly, countries such as China, India and Russia are emerging as major players on the global economic scene, forcing us to sit up and take notice. We are not guaranteed our status as a world leader—we must earn it. While our position as the world leader is based on many contributing factors, there is one common factor that will allow us to maintain our position as the single economic superpower—education. If we don’t ensure that we are graduating students with the skills in math, science, and other key disciplines to compete with international students, our nation will lose its competitive edge. Education is the key to our nation’s future, which is why I continue to work closely with educators and parents to promote educational initiatives that will improve our students’ abilities to compete in the global marketplace. If our students show up for school unhealthy or are too sick to show up at all, the steps we take to improve their education will not matter. Before we can educate our children for the future, we must properly prepare them for learning and ensure they are healthy so they will be ready and excited to learn. This is why I support SCHIP – the State Children’s Health Insurance Program. The negative impacts on our society of neglecting children’s health have a long reach. Unhealthy children fall behind in their studies and slow down the entire class while teachers attempt to help them catch up. If you ask any teacher about the impact of good health on education, you will learn very quickly that our entire nation pays a steep price for failing to keep our kids healthy. SCHIP helps to remedy this problem by assisting hard-working, low-to-middle income families obtain affordable health care for their children. In turn, it allows these parents to send their kids to school healthy and ready to learn. Our nation needs these young people to be competitive in a world marketplace. We need our children to grow up ready to become scientists, engineers, researchers, and inventors. We need them prepared to conquer world challenges such as new energy technologies, global climate change, pandemic diseases, and a vastly increasing world population. Before our kids can conquer these challenges to lead the world, they need a good education. And before they can get a good education, they need good health. They need SCHIP. In today’s competitive world, it is more important than ever that we make sure our nation’s most precious resource, our children, have the tools they need to succeed.
10.18.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson met with Director Jim Nussle of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) today to urge the White House's cooperation in reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, which expired in 2006, provided an alternative source of education funding for communities whose tax receipts have significantly decreased due to restrictions placed on harvesting timber on federal lands. Idaho is over 60 percent federal land and was hit particularly hard when this program expired. Simpson stressed to Director Nussle this program’s importance to communities in Idaho and throughout the West. “This funding is desperately needed by rural communities,” Simpson said. "Payment in Lieu of Taxes is designed to help, but doesn’t come close to footing the bill. The federal government is responsible for these land management policies, therefore they are obligated to assist these communities."
10.18.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today announced his co-sponsorship of H.R. 3779, the Andrew Larochelle God, Family, and Country Act of 2007. The legislation would codify a policy allowing inclusion of religious references on flag certificates for flags flown over the U.S. Capitol. “I was dismayed to learn about a policy of the Office of the Architect of the Capitol that prohibits the inclusion of political and religious statements on flag certificates,” said Simpson. This policy has been in place since 2003 but has not been enforced until recently. The policy was brought to light when a flag certificate request that read “for the love of God, family, and Country” was returned with the word “God” excluded so that it only read “for the love of family and Country.” Because of wide-spread concern over this policy, on October 11, 2007, Acting Architect of the Capitol Stephen Ayers issued a memo to congressional offices changing the policy. After reviewing the policy Ayers said, “The Office of the Architect of the Capitol is a service organization. Flying the flags over the Capitol is an important constituent service for Members of Congress. When one of our services or policies doesn’t effectively serve Members of Congress or the American public, it needs to be changed immediately.” “I have constituents who wish to honor various milestones and special occasions in their life by having a flag flown over the United States Capitol with a personal message commemorating their event,” said Simpson. “They have a right for that message to include thoughts of religion.” Members of Congress and Mr. Ayers agree that the rules and policy of expressions on flag certificates have been inappropriate and inconsistently applied over the years. While Congressman Simpson supported changing the rule administratively, he expressed his concern that without a statutory change, future administrators would be able to re-impose the ban. If H.R. 3779 becomes law, it would permanently resolve the issue for future generations.
10.15.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson testified today before the House Agriculture Committee regarding disaster conditions in Idaho and their impacts on agriculture. "Idaho’s agricultural producers are facing significant trials due to catastrophic fires and severe drought," Simpson said. "This summer was too hot and too dry for too long. I have seen barley fields in Idaho that appeared harvested because there were simply no heads on the plant. They never grew." While speaking about Idaho’s severe wildfires Simpson related the loss of grazing land due to the Murphy Complex fire which burned over 600,000 acres. "As a result of losing these grazing lands some ranchers were forced to sell their herds. Other ranchers lost livestock to the fire itself. Many were left with no alternative grazing allotments," Simpson related. "The effects of the Murphy fire will be felt by ranchers for years to come." "Whether it is floods, hurricanes, or fires, our nation has traditionally responded with aid to those affected by natural disasters. While Idahoans affected by these disasters may not be as visible as other disaster victims, their economic losses and the disruption of their lifestyles is no less tragic." Simpson was invited to appear before the Committee by Chairman Collin Peterson (D-MN). Prior to the hearing Simpson, along with Congressman Greg Walden (R-OR), led a bi-partisan effort to ask the House Appropriations Committee to extend the deadline for the Crop Disaster, Livestock Indemnity, and Livestock Compensation Programs to December 31, 2007, to provide a safety net for the farmers and ranchers who have experienced losses this year. Simpson also took the opportunity express his gratitude to firefighters during the turbulent fire season. "They are heroes," Simpson said.
10.10.2007	In a letter to the House Appropriations Committee, Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson (R-ID), Greg Walden (R-OR), and Sanford Bishop (D-GA) led the effort to ask Chairman David Obey (D-WN) to approve a variety of disaster assistance measures to assist states impacted by the devastating drought and catastrophic wildfires. The coalition includes more than 40 members of Congress from both sides of the aisle and they are seeking the assistance through upcoming disaster supplemental legislation expected before Congress in the near future. “As Congress looks to assist Americans impacted by floods, drought, fire, and other natural disasters, it must not forget the incredible toll these conditions had on our citizens,” said Simpson. “Idaho was ground zero this year for drought and wildfires and experienced some of the worst fire conditions in decades, including our nation’s largest wildfire in Southwestern Idaho. Now is an appropriate time for Congress and the federal government to step forward and help our State’s citizens deal with the aftermath of this year’s disasters.” Among the provisions the Bipartisan Coalition is requesting in the disaster supplemental legislation are the following: · Extension of the Crop Disaster Program to cover losses of any crop planted prior to December 31, 2007. Current law only covers crops planted prior to February 28, 2007. · Extension of the Livestock Compensation Program and the Livestock Indemnity Program to cover losses that occurred prior to December 31, 2007. Current law only covers losses prior to February 28, 2007. The Livestock Compensation Program assists ranchers in purchasing feed for livestock during extreme drought conditions. The Livestock Indemnity Program provides compensation for livestock losses from a variety of conditions – including wildfire. “These deadlines leave many agriculture producerswho have experienced economic losses during this turbulent year without an adequate safety net,” said Simpson. “Extending these dates will allow the USDA to effectively and efficiently administer disaster aid to those farmers and ranchers who have endured natural disasters since the February cut-off date.”
10.04.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson released the following statement regarding Senator Larry Craig’s decision today: “Sen. Craig’s announcement gives the people of Idaho some certainty for the next 15 months. I remain convinced this delegation will continue to effectively represent Idaho as we turn our focus to more pressing matters.”
10.03.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined Members of Congress in cosponsoring legislation to honor the National Guard. H.Res. 542 expresses the unconditional support of the House of Representatives for the members of the National Guard. The National Guard is the United States oldest component of the Armed Forces and one of the nation's longest enduring institutions. The men and women who make up the National Guard have fought bravely in every major American war since 1637. "All over America, families have watched their loved ones defend our country, and Idaho is no different. Our National Guard has played an exceptional role in many conflicts, especially in today’s war in the Middle East," said Simpson. "It is important that we pause to recognize their sacrifices and thank them for their tremendous service because we would not enjoy the freedoms we have without them." H.Res. 542 states: The House of Representatives — unconditionally supports the men and women who serve in our National Guard; recognizes the tremendous sacrifices made by the soldiers in our National Guard; will do everything in its power to ensure that the National Guard receives the resources it needs; and will support families who have lost loved ones while serving in our nation’s military. From World War II, Korea to Vietnam, the National Guard has defended our nation. In Desert Storm, around 63,000 Army Guardsmen and women were called to serve and today they have a significant role in Afghanistan and Iraq. Currently, there are close to 235,703 members deployed.
10.03.2007	In September, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson requested the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to not reduce Boise City’s funding under a grant program geared toward housing improvements, economic development, neighborhood revitalization, and other community development activities. Last week, Congressman Simpson was notified that the funds will continue to be allocated to the City of Boise. “It is important that our government be flexible to meet the needs of the people,” said Simpson. “I’m pleased the Department of Housing and Urban Development recognized the need to reevaluate this case. In the end, the Department decided to continue to provide the necessary funding to the Boise’s Community Development Block Grant.” Because of HUD’s regulations, the City of Boise’s Community Development Block Grant program funds were at risk for future years. HUD requires communities to use their CDBG funds 60 days prior to the end of the fiscal year to ensure that program funding is being put to good use. Because of circumstances beyond their control, the City of Boise had not spent their entire grant funding by the August 2nd deadline, leaving the program in jeopardy of losing funding in the future. Once these problems were addressed the City made rapid progress and met their expenditure goals before the end of the fiscal year. Congressman Simpson acted as a liaison between the City and HUD to help promote the City’s planned use of Community Development Block Grant funds and ensure that the City did not lose future funding. In a letter to the City of Boise the Department writes, “Boise has continued to improve its performance . . . consequently, the Department has reconsidered its decision to reduce Boise’s FY 2007 grant as articulated on Sept. 7, 2007. The Department has rescinded its decision to reduce the FY 2007 grant and no corrective action will be taken with respect to Boise’s failure to comply with the timeliness standard this year.”
09.25.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson announced that he is an original cosponsor of the Charlie Norwood CLEAR Act of 2007 today. This legislation is designed to implement an efficient system of identifying and removing violent criminal illegal immigrants, while denying specific federal funding to American "Sanctuary Cities" that protect them. The Charlie Norwood CLEAR Act of 2007 (H.R. 3494) would provide training, critical information sharing improvements, and funding to local police in order to practically enforce current immigration law. These new resources would allow local law enforcement to identify and detain the more than 400,000 alien absconders currently in the United States, 85,000 of which possess criminal records. This legislation also targets cities such as San Francisco, Houston, and New York, which have enacted laws that shield illegal immigrants from federal immigration law. Under this legislation, sanctuary cities would lose federal funding to the State Criminal Alien Assistance Program (SCAPP), unless local governments rescind the policies that prohibit local law enforcement officials from working with the Department of Homeland Security. “It is vital that we are tough on criminals, especially these violent criminal illegal aliens who bring drugs, gangs and perform despicable acts in our communities,” said Simpson. “This legislation not only helps law enforcement get these thugs off the street, but it sends a strong financial message to the cities that essentially provide these criminals sanctuary.” The CLEAR Act would enact several common sense immigration measures including: Affirms that state and local law enforcement officials already have existing authority to assist in enforcing immigration law during the course of routine duty. Denies SCAAP (State Criminal Alien Assistance Program) funding to "sanctuary cities" that refuse to assist with immigration enforcement. By acting as a sanctuary for illegals and preventing city officials from working with DHS, these local governments encourage illegal immigrants to break the law. Requires DHS to provide the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) all info on aliens who: have a final order of removal, have signed a voluntary departure agreement, overstayed their visa length, or have had their visa revoked. Authorizes local authorities to procure equipment, facilities to assist in the enforcement of immigration law. Authorizes additional construction for detention space. Requires DHS to take an alien into custody within 48 hours.
09.19.2007	In a letter to the House Appropriations Committee, Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today asked his colleagues to approve a variety of disaster assistance measures to assist the State of Idaho and those Idahoans impacted by the devastating drought and catastrophic wildfires. Simpson is seeking the assistance through upcoming disaster supplemental legislation expected before Congress this fall. “As Congress looks to assist Americans impacted by floods, drought, fire, and other natural disasters, it must not forget the incredible toll these conditions had on our State’s citizens,” said Simpson. “Idaho was ground zero this year for drought and wildfires and experienced some of the worst fire conditions in decades, including our nation’s largest wildfire in Southwestern Idaho. Now is an appropriate time for Congress and the federal government to step forward and help our State’s citizens deal with the aftermath of this year’s disasters.” Among the provisions Simpson is requesting in the disaster supplemental legislation are the following: Extension of the Crop Disaster Program to cover losses of any crop planted prior to October 1, 2007. Current law only covers crops planted prior to February 28, 2007. Extension of the Livestock Compensation Program and the Livestock Indemnity Program to cover losses that occurred prior to October 1, 2007. Current law only covers losses prior to February 28, 2007. The Livestock Compensation Program assists ranchers in purchasing feed for livestock during extreme drought conditions. The Livestock Indemnity Program provides compensation for livestock losses from a variety of conditions – including wildfire. Additional federal funding of measures to rebuild fencing lost or damaged in wildfires, and for reseeding and rehabilitation of federal lands impacted by wildfires. Reimbursement of costs incurred by the State of Idaho in fighting fires that began on federal lands. The state now estimates it has spent at least $28 million fighting fires this season – many of which began on federal lands and spread to state and privately owned lands. Simpson also asked the Committee to consider provisions that would allow ranchers to better utilize grazing lands unaffected by fires and a provision that would ensure cattle were allowed back on some fire-impacted lands as early as next year. In addition, Simpson alerted the Committee to his desire to explore the possibility of promoting a pilot program on some fire-impacted Idaho lands that would permit the use of grazing as a fuels reduction management tool in the rehabilitation toolbox. “While we look to secure funding to help with the economic losses sustained in Idaho, I believe it is equally important that we turn our attention to the longer-term issues that contribute to catastrophic wildfires,” said Simpson. “There is simply no doubt in my mind that the buildup of fuels on both forest land and range land contributed to the devastating nature of some of these fires. Therefore, I believe we need to quickly move to ensure grazing and forest health management practices are utilized effectively by public land managers to minimize the occurrence of catastrophic fires in the future.”
09.06.2007	Congressman Simpson today asked Gov. C.L. “Butch” Otter to remove his name from the list of potential replacements for U.S. Senator Larry Craig. His statement follows: “After careful deliberation, Kathy and I have determined that my reasons for rejecting a run at an open Senate seat remain as strong today as they were three weeks ago, and I have asked Gov. Otter to remove me from his list of potential appointees. I believe I can best serve Idaho by continuing to build my seniority in the House and serving on the House Appropriations Committee. I am honored and humbled to have been considered for the Senate and appreciative of those who have expressed confidence in me. I am confident Governor Otter will make an excellent appointment to the Senate.”
09.01.2007	Following is a statement from Congressman Mike Simpson concerning Senator Craig’s announcement to resign today. “To say today is a sorrowful day is not enough. Idaho has lost a great leader and I will personally miss working with him on a daily basis. Senator Craig and Suzanne deserve our gratitude and I hope that Idahoans and the Nation will allow them the time they need to recover after this week’s unimaginable turmoil. Thank you, Larry.”
08.01.2007	When the Republicans authorized the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) in 1997, they created a program to provide health insurance to low-income children. In Idaho, this essential program has given thousands of vulnerable children access to healthcare. Shamefully, at the expense of these very children, Democrats’ reauthorization of this critical program has lost sight of the program’s purpose. While SCHIP was originally designed to cover poor children, this new bill radically expands coverage to virtually anybody— including illegal aliens. By removing all requirements that recipients provide proof of citizenship or legal residency, the bill forces hard-working American taxpayers to foot the bill for healthcare for those who have violated our nation’s laws. At a time when we should be working to improve border security and enforce our immigration laws, passing a bill that actually incentivizes more individuals to break the law and enter our country illegally is absurd. The cost of providing these benefits to illegal aliens could reach into the hundreds of billions annually. The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that 13% of funds for the Children’s Health Insurance Program already go to pay for adults. For example, 87% of SCHIP enrollees in Minnesota are adults. Illinois has enrolled over 175,000 adults in its Children’s Health Program. Under the new bill, even more adults would become eligible for coverage. This bill further jeopardizes the integrity of SCHIP--a program whose very name reminds us that its primary purpose is to provide health insurance to poor children. This bill allows children of families making over $82,000 a year to be eligible for SCHIP--almost twice the income of the average Idaho family. CBO estimates that over 2 million children currently covered by private health insurance would be moved onto inferior government-run health plans. Children of the richest Americans now would be eligible for government-funded health insurance. This expansion will undermine our current system of private healthcare coverage and continue to push us involuntarily into a national healthcare system. After all, if the Democrats are willing to offer coverage to millions of middle-class Americans, why should employers and small business owners cover their employees out of their own pockets? Even worse, the Democrats included a stealth provision to raise taxes on every American with private insurance by charging federal premium taxes on all insurance policies. This hidden tax increase is another effort to increase private insurance rates and force Americans onto government run, bureaucrat-controlled healthcare. The Democrat bill is an underhanded, devious step towards Hillary-care: a government-run, government-mandated health insurance plan for everyone, regardless of income, age or citizenship. Instead of trying to expand SCHIP to cover adults, illegal immigrants and children already covered by private insurance, we should make the existing program more effective. We should reach out to eligible low-income children not enrolled. If Democrats want to implement a national healthcare system, then Congress should have that debate, openly and publicly. However, using the Children’s Health Insurance Program to mask what amounts to a giant leap towards socialized medicine is both dishonest and devastating to low-income children, the very group we should be trying to reach. When the Republicans created SCHIP in 1997, they created an important program designed to improve needy children’s access to health insurance. The Democrat bill is not about that at all. It is a massive expansion of government-run health care and a huge step towards creating a national healthcare system, which would result in lower quality and fewer choices for all Americans. This bill is bad for Idaho and bad for children.
07.19.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations bill. H.R. 3043 passed the U.S. House of Representatives with a vote of 276-140. “It may sound cliché but ‘Education is Our Future’ and we must put the funding and support behind it,” said Simpson. “This bill includes funding for all levels of education and includes funding for children with disabilities.” National Programs in bill include: Higher Education Access Deficit: Pell Grants. Between 2001 and 2006, the cost of attending a four-year public college increased by $3,764 or 42 percent; however, the maximum Pell Grant increased by just $300. This bill increases the maximum Pell award by $390 to $4,700. K-12 Educational Opportunity Deficit: No Child Left Behind: $25.7 Billion Disabilities Educational Deficit: IDEA Part B grants: $559.464 Million. Health and Human Services/Rural Health: This bill provides $307 million for rural health programs, area health education centers, and the National Health Service Corps. These programs support more than 1,200 small, at-risk rural hospitals, create health care networks for more than 775,000 rural residents in underserved communities, and provide access to emergency defibrillation devices, and support rural health research centers and State rural health offices. Idaho Programs in the House Bill include: The Literacy Matters! Program is aimed at educating new mothers on the importance of early childhood literacy and math skills and providing them with resources for educating their children. ($300,000) The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project will provide dental care for 600 low-income, uninsured children throughout Idaho. Eligible children will be identified by working in partnership with Idaho schools, health departments, Head Start programs, and YMCA programs. Dental services are provided by over 90 dentists who are Caring Foundation providers, providing oral health services for reduced fees. ($300,000) Boise/Treasure Valley Programs in the House Bill include: The Community Detox Center; United Way of Treasure Valley is a proposed facility for 24-hour medically monitored alcohol and drug sobering station and 36-bed detox center for indigent patients treated by professionals. Typical stays for sobering will be 12 hours and typical stays for detoxification will be 5-6 days; following sobering and/or detoxification, patients will be referred to appropriate education and treatment programs. ($400,000) The Children’s Health Services Expansion; St. Luke’s Regional Medical Center. This expansion project provides essential growth in capacity for Pediatric Medical/Surgical, Pediatric Intensive Care, Neonatal Intensive Care, Pediatric Oncology, and Pediatric Surgical Suites and support areas, to meet the needs of the rapidly growing population in the hospital’s service area. ($200,000) SySTEMic Solution: Plant Early for STEM Learning (science, technology, engineering, & math). This program is a nationally relevant, hands-on, project-based STEM learning system (science, technology, engineering, & math) designed to spur achievement and confidence among elementary-age learners and their teachers. ($200,000) The Discovery Center of Idaho Expansion. This funding will assist efforts initiated by the Discovery Center and the J.R. Simplot Foundation to build a new model of a “hands-on” science center to captivate the attention of and inspire tomorrow’s leaders and innovators. The 70,000 square foot Center will be founded on three core strengths, inspiring stories of innovation including Mr. Simplot’s story, iconic collection of working steam tractors and DCI’s expertise in igniting curiosity, through interactive science exhibits and programs. ($250,000) “The Treasure Valley is growing rapidly and in order to meet the needs of our communities we need to help fund the Detox Center, education programs and areas that improve children’s healthcare,” said Simpson. “I’m glad I could be part of directing federal funds to projects that will greatly serve Idahoans.” Southeast Idaho/ Upper Valley Programs in the House Bill include: Madison County Memorial Hospital Revitalization Project. The Hospital services for the growing area, that encompasses five counties, and has simply outgrown its facilities. This project will increase capacity for obstetrics (Madison County Memorial Hospital has more births than any other hospital of its size in the State of Idaho and possibly the nation) and inpatient and outpatient surgeries is needed. Federal funding will be used for necessary medical equipment for the expanded and remodeled facility. ($200,000) Teton Valley Hospital Revitalization Project. The Teton Valley Hospital & Surgicenter is a 13-bed Critical Access Hospital that provides an emergency room and a full scope of primary care services to the residents in and around Teton Valley. Its population has grown by more than 99% over the past 15 years, ranking it in the top two fastest growing counties in Idaho for the last six years. This population growth has seriously strained the resources of the hospital and necessitated the revitalization project. ($200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory will develop an Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory (ACSL) to strengthen nursing education, practice and research in Idaho. The ACLS will enable students, faculty, and practice partners to become actively involved in clinical simulation learning and conducting research related to student learning, effectiveness of clinical education models and improving patient care outcomes. The ACSL will also provide a research and practice laboratory for nurse faculty and clinical educators to learn and update knowledge about clinical educational models and teaching with technology. ($200,000) Magic Valley Programs in the House Bill include: College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program will develop a curriculum to implement new post-secondary educational-technical training degrees and programs at the CSI. ($200,000) Historic Wilson Theater Restoration Project. The Wilson Theater was built in 1920 and is on the National Register of Historic Places. It is also part of Rupert’s Historic Business District. The community has raised over $1 million to restore the building, this funding will aid in their efforts. ($150,000)
07.18.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined fellow House members in announcing the introduction of H.R. 2946, the State and Local Education Flexibility Act of 2007. Simpson is an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan bill that is sponsored by Nebraska Congressman Lee Terry. “No Child Left Behind needs to be flexible. What may work in New York City may not work in Declo, Idaho,” said Simpson. “I’ve been successful in working with the Administration and Members of Congress to make common-sense improvements to this legislation and we need to continue with this principle.” When H.R. 2946 is enacted it will contain many new improvements to the existing law, while making significant enhancements to items in place. H.R. 2946 adds and ensures FLEXIBILITY to NCLB for schools, parents and children: To meet the needs of students with limited English proficiency. To recognize students with special educational needs or extraordinary circumstances when calculating high school graduation rates. To assess students with severe and significant special educational needs based on standard practice under federal special education law. To implement innovative localized testing systems to meet the requirements of NCLB. To help special education and rural teachers who teach multiple subjects be “highly qualified” in all subject areas. There will be many new improvements for No Child Left Behind including the ability to more accurately grade individual schools with A, B, C, D, or F rather than pass/fail. H.R. 2946 will also allow states the option to meet adequate yearly progress requirements by using the growth model to track individual student progress from grade to grade, rather than comparing one class of students against a previous class of different students each year. Members of Congress, the National Conference on State Legislatures (NCSL), the National Education Association (NEA), and the American Association of School Administrators (AASA), support H.R. 2946 and its importance in the NCLB reauthorization debate.
07.17.2007	U.S. Senator Larry Craig, R-Idaho, and U.S. Rep. Mike Simpson, R-Idaho, announced today that both the House and Senate versions of the Agriculture Appropriations bill include funds to eradicate potato cyst nematode (PCN) in Idaho. PCN was discovered in eastern Idaho in 2006 - the first discovery of the pest in the United States. PCN can result in up to 80 percent loss of a potato crop and has the potential to devastate the Idaho and U.S. potato industry. Craig and Simpson said, "Because PCN currently is located in such a small area, we need to grasp this unique opportunity to eradicate the pest early. The United States can't afford to ignore a threat of this magnitude to its $2.9 billion potato industry." Today, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies approved $12.8 million for the program in its fiscal year 2008 appropriations bill. Last week, the House also approved funding. Craig and Simpson are both members of their respective Appropriations Committees. To date, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has provided $10.78 million to begin this aggressive PCN eradication program. Approximately $12 million is needed to continue the program, which is being administered by the Idaho State Department of Agriculture.
07.17.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today praised passage of H.R. 2641, the fiscal year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill which included substantial funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) and the Office of Nuclear Energy. Specifically, the legislation provides $96.8 million in increased funding for ongoing remediation of facilities and land as part of the Idaho Cleanup Project. Total cleanup funding for FY2008 is slated to be over $600 million, which is a record funding level for Idaho. "I have repeatedly said that in order to be successful with the long-term future missions of the INL we have to be successful in cleaning up the cold war legacy of the Site," said Simpson. "This bill will accelerate our ability to remediate that legacy and protect the Snake River Plain Aquifer." "Congressman Simpson is to be commended for securing the funding of our nuclear waste agreement," said Former Governor Phil Batt. "This bill ensures the DOE’s commitments under the 1995 Settlement Agreement will be met, while advancing technologies at the Lab." The Idaho National Laboratory’s research efforts receive substantial increases as well, including $70 million for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) and $20 million for upgrades to the Advanced Test Reactor and the construction of new buildings. The NGNP is an advanced high-temperature gas reactor to be built in Idaho and designed to produce both electricity and hydrogen. Idaho Senator Larry Craig authorized its development as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. "This bill provides a substantial boost to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the development of advanced gas reactor technology," said Simpson. "It also places a significant investment in the aging infrastructure of the Site and funds ongoing efforts to extend the life of the Advanced Test Reactor." H.R. 2641 also includes $4 million for water and wastewater infrastructure projects across the state of Idaho under the Army Corps of Engineers Section 595 program. Funding for this program has in the past been used to assist a number of Idaho communities with their water infrastructure needs. Those communities include Rupert, Burley, Emmett, Bonners Ferry, and the Eastern Idaho Regional Wastewater Project. The Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill provides approximately $30 billion in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several independent agencies. H.R. 2641 will now be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
07.12.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced that he is upgrading his constituent mail system to better serve constituent needs today. The conversion to the new mail system will begin on Monday, July 16. "Responding to constituent inquires and mail has always been my number one priority," said Simpson. "The sheer volume of emails the office now receives has necessitated an upgrade to a program that will better serve the needs of our constituents. It will also enhance our ability to keep Idahoans, who write and call me, more informed via mail, e-mail, and newsletters." Because this conversion entails moving all constituent information to a new system and staff training, constituents may experience a short delay in responses. Congressman Simpson fully expects this transition to go very smoothly, but felt it was necessary to inform the public of this change. What the new system means for constituents: More efficient mail processing Increase timeliness of constituent responses Aid Caseworkers in assisting constituents through the red tape of the Federal Government Increase communications with individuals who wish to receive electronic newsletters (people can sign up for these on Congressman Mike Simpson’s webpage at www.house.gov/simpson).
07.12.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Bill. “This legislation provides funding for various law enforcement agencies to enhance their capabilities to apprehend criminals,” said Simpson. “Offenders like Joseph Duncan should be easier to track in order to keep our children and communities safe. I’m hopeful this funding will move us closer to accomplishing this enormously, important task.” Idaho Programs included in House Bill: National Consortium of Offender Management Systems (NCOMS) Sharing Software Development Project. This program makes it possible to track offenders across state lines and beyond with the use of Extensible Markup Language (XML). This provides a partnership for the law enforcement and corrections communities to help track and apprehend sex offenders, terrorists and other criminals on the move. The NCOMS programs make it affordable to implement the latest technology in all governmental organizations to provide safer communities. ($800,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Criminal Information Sharing Alliance network (CISAnet) is a fully functional information-sharing network comprised of law enforcement agencies from the states of Alabama, Arizona, California, Georgia, Idaho, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas. Sharing of criminal law enforcement information by and between these ten states is vital to securing an area regarded as one of the most vulnerable to our nation’s security. ($1,200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery Fund was created in 1999 for the purpose of meeting obligations of the Pacific Salmon Treaty and recovering threatened and endangered salmon stocks in the Pacific Northwest. Idaho is one of five states eligible for funding. ($64,825,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has helped secure for this program in the past. This legislation was approved in Committee today and will come before the full House in the next few weeks where it is expected to pass.
07.12.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for Idaho transportation projects in the House Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Bill. “It is important for the federal government to complete projects they start and fulfill promises they make,” said Simpson. “That’s why I’m pleased to report the funding we’ve secured to complete the new air tower at the Boise Airport. It is more than necessary and the entire valley will benefit upon its completion.” Boise Airport Terminal Programs. The funding for this projectcompletes the new Boise Air Traffic Control tower. The new tower will increase safety for air travelers, enhance controllers’ line of vision, and provide assistance to operations at Gowen Field. ($9,074,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Idaho Transit Coalition Buses and Bus Facilities project will support essential transit systems in rural and urban areas of the State of Idaho. ($500,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Curtis Road to Broadway IC Widening. This project would widen I-84 through east Boise, adding eastbound and westbound fourth lanes and alleviating congestion and safety issues caused by continued fast growth in the Treasure Valley. ($300,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This legislation was approved in Committee and will come before the full House in the next few weeks where it is expected to pass.
07.11.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill and the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Bill. “All of these projects are worthwhile and will greatly benefit Idahoans,” said Simpson. “I’m especially pleased with the funding for the College of Southern Idaho. CSI does a superb job of serving the needs of the ever-growing Magic Valley and I’m grateful for the additional funding to support their programs.” Idaho Programs included in the House Bill: The Literacy Matters! Program is aimed at educating new mothers on the importance of early childhood literacy and math skills and providing them with resources for educating their children. ($300,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project will provide dental care for 600 low-income, uninsured children throughout Idaho. Eligible children will be identified by working in partnership with Idaho schools, health departments, Head Start programs, and YMCA programs. Dental services are provided by over 90 dentists who are Caring Foundation providers, providing oral health services for reduced fees. ($300,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Idaho Transit Coalition Buses and Bus Facilities project will support essential transit systems in rural and urban areas of the State of Idaho. ($500,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Magic Valley College of Southern Idaho Pro-Tech Program will develop a curriculum to implement new post-secondary educational-technical training degrees and programs at the CSI. ($200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Historic Wilson Theater Restoration Project. The Wilson Theater was built in 1920 and is on the National Register of Historic Places. It is also part of Rupert’s Historic Business District. The community has raised over $1 million to restore the building, this funding will aid in their efforts. ($150,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). City of Rocks Back Country Byway will receive fundingfor a 16.7 mile-long project located on the popular City of Rocks Back Country Byway in Cassia County, Idaho. This provides the only direct access to the City of Rocks National Reserve. When fully completed, the project will pave a 1.0 mile gravel segment, reconstruct 15.7 miles of deficit roadway, correct deteriorated road and slope conditions, provide a wider road with shoulders and guardrail, and improve the road’s alignment by reducing the number and severity of sharp curves and steep grades. ($900,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Both pieces of legislation were approved in Committee today and will come before the full House in the next few weeks where it is expected to pass.
07.11.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson has secured funding for several Idaho projects in the House Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Bill and the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Bill. “All of these projects are worthwhile and will greatly benefit Idahoans,” said Simpson. “I’m especially pleased with the funding for Madison and Teton County Hospitals. Both of these facilities provide quality care to enormous regions that are growing rapidly. I’m hopeful this additional funding will aid in their renovations so they can continue provide excellent care.” Idaho Programs included in the House Bill: The Literacy Matters! Program is aimed at educating new mothers on the importance of early childhood literacy and math skills and providing them with resources for educating their children. ($300,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. The Idaho Caring Foundation Dental Project will provide dental care for 600 low-income, uninsured children throughout Idaho. Eligible children will be identified by working in partnership with Idaho schools, health departments, Head Start programs, and YMCA programs. Dental services are provided by over 90 dentists who are Caring Foundation providers, providing oral health services for reduced fees. ($300,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Idaho Transit Coalition Buses and Bus Facilities project will support essential transit systems in rural and urban areas of the State of Idaho. ($500,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Southeast Idaho/ Upper Valley Area Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory will develop an Advanced Clinical Simulation Laboratory (ACSL) to strengthen nursing education, practice and research in Idaho. The ACLS will enable students, faculty, and practice partners to become actively involved in clinical simulation learning and conducting research related to student learning, effectiveness of clinical education models and improving patient care outcomes. The ACSL will also provide a research and practice laboratory for nurse faculty and clinical educators to learn and update knowledge about clinical educational models and teaching with technology. ($200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Madison County Memorial Hospital Revitalization Project. The Hospital services for the growing area, that encompasses five counties, and has simply outgrown its facilities. This project will increase capacity for obstetrics (Madison County Memorial Hospital has more births than any other hospital of its size in the State of Idaho and possibly the nation) and inpatient and outpatient surgeries is needed. Federal funding will be used for necessary medical equipment for the expanded and remodeled facility. ($200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). Teton Valley Hospital Revitalization Project. The Teton Valley Hospital & Surgicenter is a 13-bed Critical Access Hospital that provides an emergency room and a full scope of primary care services to the residents in and around Teton Valley. Its population has grown by more than 99% over the past 15 years, ranking it in the top two fastest growing counties in Idaho for the last six years. This population growth has seriously strained the resources of the hospital and necessitated the revitalization project. ($200,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). City of Rocks Back Country Byway will receive fundingfor a 16.7 mile-long project located on the popular City of Rocks Back Country Byway in Cassia County, Idaho. This provides the only direct access to the City of Rocks National Reserve. When fully completed, the project will pave a 1.0 mile gravel segment, reconstruct 15.7 miles of deficit roadway, correct deteriorated road and slope conditions, provide a wider road with shoulders and guardrail, and improve the road’s alignment by reducing the number and severity of sharp curves and steep grades. ($900,000 is earmarked for this project in the House Bill). This is a continuation of funding Congressman Simpson has secured for this program in the past. Both pieces of legislation were approved in Committee today and will come before the full House in the next few weeks where it is expected to pass.
06.27.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, member of the House Appropriations Committee, joined colleagues today in passing H.R. 2643, the Interior Appropriations FY08 Funding Bill. The legislation passed the House with a vote of 272-155. Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) requires the federal government to make payments to local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their boundaries. “While we are still not at the desired full funding of PILT, this bill does move in the right direction and provides over $253 million for the program that many counties in Idaho desperately need.” Funding to Fight Wildfires also fared well in this appropriations bill. “Last year was the most expensive year on record for fighting wildfires,” said Simpson. “This bill includes $2.8 billion to prevent and fight wildfires by funding programs that remove hazardous fuels, rehabilitates burned lands, supporting fire suppression operations, and assists state and local firefighters.” In 2016, the nation will celebrate the centennial anniversary of our National Parks Service. H.R. 2643 includes $2.512 billion to upgrade our parks in time for this historic event. Idaho projects included in the bill are: The Auger Falls Wastewater Treatment Project in Twin Falls will receive an additional $500,000 in this bill. “The City of Twin Falls and those involved should be commended for realizing a need and creatively filling that need with a wastewater treatment facility and a plan for future science trails and parks,” said Simpson. “The project is well thought out.” The Snake River Basin Agreement (SRBA) will receive over $21 million in FY08. This funding is part of the Snake River Water Rights Act of 2004 that settled water rights claims on the Snake River by the Nez Perce Tribe. The Interior Appropriations legislation also provides funding to ensure public access along the South Fork. “The Upper Snake and South Fork is world renowned and I’m pleased that this legislation provides funding to keep land along the river scenic, undeveloped and allow for public access,” said Simpson. $1.5 million is appropriated for land conservation for the Upper Snake/South Fork Snake River Area. The legislation will now be considered by the U.S. Senate.
06.27.2007	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson joined fellow members of the Rural Health Care Coalition, co-chaired by Congressmen Greg Walden (R–OR) and Earl Pomeroy (D–ND), in cosponsoring H.R. 2680, the Health Care Access and Rural Equity Act of 2007 (H-CARE). This bipartisan bill would help rural health care providers address obstacles associated with delivering quality care close to home. H-CARE Act makes several improvements to our nation’s health care infrastructure that would help rural health care providers address their unique challenges. Specifically, the bill would do the following: Authorize health information technology grants for rural practitioners. Provide flexibility in the number of beds Critical Access Hospitals are allowed to fill. Require prompt payment to rural pharmacies by Medicare prescription drug plans. Ensure adequate rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission. Establish a Rural Heath Quality Advisory Commission. Raise Rural Health Clinic reimbursements to more appropriately cover costs. Extend several expiring Medicare adjustment payments for rural practitioners including physicians practicing in physician-scarce areas, rural ambulance providers, rural home health agencies and specific classes of rural hospitals. "While the rural character of Idaho provides our state with many cultural and scenic riches, it also presents unique challenges in many aspects of daily life – including the delivery of quality health care to rural communities and residents," Simpson said. "This legislation would help rural communities stay current with technology, prescription drug plans and reimbursements, all of which are extremely important to delivering the best health care possible." "Rural caregivers and rural patients deserve a better partner in the federal government when it comes to the health of rural America," Walden said. "It is high time that rural America stops being treated like a second-class constituency when it comes to issues like Medicare reimbursement. The H-CARE Act delivers commonsense solutions to obstacles that can inhibit the delivery of quality health care to millions of Americans." Organizations that support H.R. 2860 include the National Rural Health Association, American Hospital Association, American Osteopathic Association, American Ambulance Association, National Association of Rural Health Clinics, National Association for Home Care and Hospice, College of American Pathologists, Rural Referral Center/Sole Community Hospital Coalition, Federation of American Hospitals, American Counseling Association, American Association for Marriage and Family Therapists, Association of Community Pharmacists, the Section 508 Hospital Coalition and the American Mental Health Counselors Association.
06.22.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, member of the House Appropriations Committee, today applauded the Interior Appropriations FY08 Funding Bill. The legislation includes funding for key Idaho Projects. The Auger Falls Wastewater Treatment Project in Twin Falls will receive an additional $500,000 in this bill. “The City of Twin Falls and those involved should be commended for realizing a need and creatively filling that need with a wastewater treatment facility and a plan for future science trails and parks,” said Simpson. “The project is well thought out.” The Snake River Basin Agreement (SRBA) will receive over $21 million in FY08. This funding is part of the Snake River Water Rights Act of 2004 that settled water rights claims on the Snake River by the Nez Perce Tribe. The Interior Appropriations legislation also provides funding to ensure public access along the South Fork. “The Upper Snake and South Fork is world renowned and I’m pleased that this legislation provides funding to keep land along the river scenic, undeveloped and allow for public access,” said Simpson. $1.5 million is appropriated for land conservation for the Upper Snake/South Fork Snake River Area. “An issue that is always important to Idaho is Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT),” said Simpson. “While we are still not at the desired full funding, this bill does move in the right direction and provides over $233 million for this program.” PILT requires the federal government to make payments to local governments to help offset losses in property taxes due to nontaxable federal lands within their boundaries. Other provisions in the bill include: Fighting Wildfires: $2.8 billion to prevent and fight wildfires. Last year was the most expensive year on record for these programs. Funding will be directed to the following: Fires Suppression Operations Preparedness Funding Other Critical Needs (removing hazardous fuels, rehabilitate burned lands, and assist state and local firefighters) National Parks: $2.512 billion to upgrade our parks in time for the centennial anniversary of the National Park Service in 2016. The legislation will now be considered by the full House of Representatives.
06.12.2007	Lately I’ve been hearing a lot from constituents with passport concerns. They need it for upcoming travel and it is still being processed. Passport demand has dramatically increased over the past few months and the time it takes to get a new or renewed passport has stretched far beyond the conventional month and a half that many expected when they applied. In 2004, the 9-11 Commission Report examined our nation’s passport system and found that it was unable to ensure the identity of those traveling to and from the United States, severely compromising our national security. In order to address these serious deficiencies, Congress has taken a number of steps to ensure that all individuals entering the US have a secure passport. These changes are vital to our national security, preventing those who wish to do us harm from penetrating our borders. It will take some time for them to be properly implemented, and in the meantime we are inevitably seeing delays at passport processing facilities. The Passport Service has already issued 8.6 million passports this year, a 33 percent increase over last year. Last week the Department of Homeland Security announced temporary flexibility for US citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. I am pleased that DHS has made accommodation for travelers this summer. However, it is still imperative that you apply for your passport as early as possible. As you make your travel plans for the rest of the year, please keep in mind the following tips to ensure that you have your passport in plenty of time: If you are traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, or Bermuda before September 30, 2007, All other international travel still requires a passport. If you have applied for a passport, you can track its progress online at: http://www.travel.state.gov/passport/get/status/status_2567.html. Routine passport applications can be tracked 3-4 weeks after the application was sent. Expedited applications can be tracked after one week. If you need a passport for your summer travel and have not received it within two weeks of your departure date, please contact one of my district offices for assistance. My staff can work with Passport Services to check the application status and help expedite the process if necessary. Phone numbers for my district offices can be found at my website: http://www.house.gov/simpson/contact.shtml. Beginning October 2007, all individuals traveling between Mexico or Canada and the United States by plane, including young children, must have a valid passport. In 2008, this requirement will extend to ALL travel within North America. Because of these changes, you should consider applying for a passport even if you are not currently planning an international trip. In addition, if you currently have a passport, take the time to check its expiration date and apply for a renewal if necessary. Right now it can take up to 10-12 weeks to receive your passport once you apply. Passport service can be expedited for an addition $60 per application, but you should still expect 2-3 weeks before you receive your passport. If you are planning to travel internationally any time in the near future, you should apply now for a new or renewed passport. you can still depart from and enter the United States by air with government-issued photo identification and a print-out of the online status check accessed at http://travel.state.gov/passport. This will show that your application for a passport has been received by the Department of State. Please note, however, that once you send your application it can take 3-4 before you can access it online. All US citizens, including young children, must have proof that they have applied for a passport. I have been pleased with the effort made by the Department of State to work with my office to address the huge influx of passport applications. It is always a good idea to have a valid passport, and if you have questions about applying I encourage you to visit www.travel.state.gov or contact one of my offices for more information.
06.07.2007	Congressmen Mike Simpson and Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) today introduced the Help Efficient, Accessible, Low-cost, Timely Healthcare (HEALTH) Act, (H.R. 2580) to reduce frivolous medical lawsuits that are raising the cost of healthcare and driving many physicians out of business. H.R. 2580 is a bipartisan bill, with 57 cosponsors, that will remove financial incentives for filing expansive lawsuits, while providing a fair and timely reparations process for those who have been wronged. “It is no secret that America is losing doctors and patients are at risk of losing access to care,” said Simpson. “Malpractice insurance is so outrageous that medical students purposely avoid high-risk fields, leaving communities without access to obstetricians, rural family physicians or neurosurgeons, to keep their insurance rates down.” H.R. 2580: Limits the amount of non-economic damages, or “pain and suffering” awards, to $250,000. Will not permit punitive damages unless an actual economic judgment is rendered, and then limits the amount to no greater than twice the economic damages. Maximizes patients’ awards by allowing courts to ensure an unjust portion of the patient’s recovery is not misdirected to an attorney. Allows patients to recover the full cost of economic damages, such as medical bills and lost income. “We need to reform our medical liability system so that patients can still recover economic losses, but we need reasonable limits that, in the end, will help drive healthcare costs down for everyone,” said Simpson.
06.06.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced his co-sponsorship of two important pieces of legislation that will provide resources for school improvements and help school districts retain qualified teachers. The America’s Better Classroom Act (H.R. 2470) and the Teacher Tax Credit Act of 2007 (H.R. 2287) are both enjoying bipartisan support. The Teacher Tax Credit Act of 2007 would provide a non-refundable tax credit to teachers and principals who work at school-wide Title I eligible schools. The legislation would help rural schools in Idaho hire and retain qualified teachers. “It is difficult for rural school districts to retain qualified teachers,” said Simpson. “By offering a tax credit to these teachers, we hope to help these areas obtain and maintain necessary educators.” The America’s Better Classrooms Act would help provide more than $25 billion in zero-interest school modernization bonds by providing tax credit to bond holders for the interest normally paid on a bond. “Federally-funded tax credits would free up local funds for other education needs,” said Simpson. “For each $1,000 in school bonds, the State or Local school districts would benefit by about $500. Idaho would receive an estimated $93,409 in bond allocations.” Both bills have been referred to the House Committee on Ways and Means, in addition, H.R. 2470 has also been referred to House Committee on Education and Labor.
05.24.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson today made the following statement after supporting passage of H.R. 2206, the Iraq War Supplemental Funding Bill. “It is unconscionable that Congress has taken over 100 days to approve funding for the soldiers in Iraq who are in harms way, while the democrats in congress attempt to embarrasses the President. “I’m disappointed and relieved at the same time. Disappointed that it has taken so long to approve this much needed funding for our troops; relieved that our troops will finally receive funding for equipment and armor that they need and deserve.”
05.24.2007	In a news conference Congressman Mike Simpson joined colleague Albert R. Wynn (MD) today, to announce the introduction of the Essential Oral Health Care Act of 2007. This Act will improve the delivery of dental services in state Medicaid and SCHIP programs, provide grants for Community Dental Health Coordinator training as well as for volunteer missions of mercy dental projects, and provide a tax credit for donated dental services. “Tooth decay is a preventable, infectious disease,” said Simpson. “If untreated, it can impede a child’s ability to eat, speak, learn, and in extreme cases, it can lead to death. As is the case in most diseases, early detection is vital; this legislation will help get treatment to kids who need it most.” Minority, low-income, and geographically isolated children suffer disproportionately from dental cavities. In fact, 80 percent of all tooth decay is found in 25 percent of children– children who are overrepresented in the lower socioeconomic strata. The recent tragic death of Deamonte Driver, a twelve year-old boy from Maryland who died from a brain infection resulting from an abscessed tooth, demonstrates the need to address access to care issues for our most vulnerable citizens. The impact of poor oral health can, as this tragic case shows, go far beyond the mouth. It is well- documented that poor oral health can lead to oral infections that can affect systemic health. Oral bacteria have been associated with bacterial pneumonia in bed or chair-bound patients, increased risk of heart attack and may also be passed from mother to child resulting in a higher prevalence of cavities in young children. The Essential Oral Health Care Act will improve the delivery of dental services in state Medicaid and SCHIP programs, provide grants for Community Dental Health Coordinator training programs and volunteer dental projects and provide tax credits for donated dental services. It also: Provides each State an option to accept an increase in its Federal Medical Assistance Percentage rate for its dental Medicaid and SCHIP programs provided certain access to care provisions are met. States that increase the percentage of plan users and participating dentists will continue to receive the enhanced match. Authorizes grants to pilot the Community Dental Health Coordinator (CDHC) position which will work in underserved communities, in collaboration with health and community organizations and schools to provide community-focused oral health promotion. The CDHC will also connect residents with limited dental care access to dentists. Authorizes grants for volunteer dental programs by community-based organizations, state dental associations, dental schools, and hospitals with postdoctoral dental education programs to provide free dental care to underserved populations. Encourages dentists to provide additional donated dental services by providing a $5,000 tax credit for free and discounted services provided.
05.23.2007	In a letter sent to House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and Ranking Member Lamar Smith (R-TX) today, Congressmen Mike Simpson (R-ID) and Jim Matheson (D-UT) requested an oversight hearing on the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA), its amendments of July 2000, and the possibility of expanding the legislation to cover individuals exposed to radioactive fallout that are not currently covered. The United States carried out more than 1000 nuclear weapons tests for more than two decades. The radioactive debris from these tests entered our nation’s atmosphere and was later deposited, in the form of radioactive fallout, all across our nation as can be seen in the accompanying Iodine-131 map produced by the National Cancer Institute. In their letter Congressmen Simpson and Matheson addressed the relationship of exposure, poor health and compensation, "For decades, individuals living within the fallout areas have lived with adverse health effects caused by radiation exposure. Today, several claimant categories exist which allow individuals meeting certain criteria to apply for compensation ranging from $50,000 to $75,000 per individual, depending on their category." The letter also stressed the importance of treating fallout victims fairly, "Eligibility for compensation, however, is limited to certain counties in just a few states. These geographical boundaries are, quite frankly, arbitrary boundaries that do not account for the fact that radioactive fallout does not abide by lines on map. Some of the counties experiencing the largest concentration of fallout in the entire nation are not included in the current RECA program – including areas in our home states of Idaho and Utah. Furthermore, the National Research Council released an exhaustive review of the science behind the RECA program in 2005 which may also be of interest to the Committee." In 2000, Congress enhanced the RECA program by adding additional categories of compensable illnesses, but has not received serious review by the Congress in the past seven years. For this reason, Simpson and Matheson believe now is an appropriate time for the Judiciary Committee to hold an oversight hearing on this important federal law.
05.23.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson, a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development, today praised his Subcommittee’s passage of the fiscal year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations bill which included substantial funding for the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) and the Office of Nuclear Energy. Specifically, the legislation provides $96.8 million in increased funding for ongoing remediation of facilities and land as part of the Idaho Cleanup Project. Total cleanup funding for FY2008 is slated to be over $600 million, which is a record funding level for Idaho. “First and foremost, this legislation boosts cleanup funding in our state to record levels,” said Simpson. “I have repeatedly said that in order to be successful with the long-term future missions of the INL we have to be successful in cleaning up the cold war legacy of the Site. This bill will accelerate our ability to remediate that legacy and protect the Snake River Plain Aquifer.” The Idaho National Laboratory’s research efforts receive substantial increases as well, including $70 million for the Next Generation Nuclear Plant (NGNP) and $20 million for upgrades to the Advanced Test Reactor and the construction of new buildings. The NGNP is an advanced high-temperature gas reactor to be built in Idaho and designed to produce both electricity and hydrogen. Idaho Senator Larry Craig authorized its development as part of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. “This bill provides a substantial boost to the Next Generation Nuclear Plant and the development of advanced gas reactor technology,” said Simpson. “It also places a significant investment in the aging infrastructure of the Site and funds ongoing efforts to extend the life of the Advanced Test Reactor. All-in-all, Idaho and its laboratory are among the biggest winners in this important piece of legislation.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill provides approximately $30 billion in funding for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department of Energy, and several independent agencies. “Chairman Visclosky and my colleagues on the Committee are demonstrating a genuine support for the future of the INL’s research mission in this bill and making a firm commitment to ongoing cleanup activities,” said Simpson. “I’m grateful for the time they have spent learning about the INL and the important work done in eastern Idaho.” The Energy and Water Appropriations bill now heads to consideration by the full Appropriations Committee where approval is expected in two weeks.
05.17.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined the bipartisan effort to pass the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2008 (H.R. 1585) today. The final vote for the legislation was 397-27. “Nothing is more important than providing funding for National Defense, especially in a time of war,” Simpson said. “We all know that we owe our freedom and way of life to the brave men and women who serve in the armed forces. This bill provides much needed funding for increasing military salary, new equipment, protective armor, and training to ensure their safety.” H.R. 1585 continues efforts to support America’s brave men and women of the United States military. Specifically, it authorizes $504 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. It also authorizes $142 billion in supplemental funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. “Because of the insurgents desire and capability to use roadside bombs in Iraq, this bill includes $4.1 billion for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles,” Simpson said. “This legislation includes important provisions to help protect those troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan while taking care of returning soldiers and their families.” Other provisions within the bill include: increases of 13,000 Army and 9,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions 3.5% pay raise for all members of the armed forces $1 billion for National Guard equipment.
05.15.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced today that he has signed on to two important initiatives for local pharmacies. Simpson is cosponsoring H.R. 971, the Community Pharmacy Fairness Act and H.R. 1474, the Fair and Speedy Treatment (FAST) of Claims Act of 2007. The Community Pharmacy Fairness Act (H.R. 971) would allow independent pharmacies the same leverage that much larger chains enjoy when negotiating their Medicare Part D and other third-party contracts. “Many people find talking to their pharmacist about their prescriptions very informative and helpful,” Simpson said. “It is unfortunate that local pharmacies have not been able to band together to negotiate lower prices for customers, this legislation will help lesson this unfair gap.” The FAST Claims Act of 2007 (H.R. 1474) would assist local pharmacies in receiving a more timely payment so they are not forced to operate on overhead due to delayed reimbursements. “Independent pharmacists are struggling to serve their communities because Medicare Part D payments are taking so long to receive,” Simpson said. “These pharmacies should not have to shoulder these costs for excessive amounts of time, I’m hopeful this legislation will ensure reimbursement claims are handled properly.” Congressman Simpson has spoken with independent pharmacists from Idaho on numerous occasions, including in a meeting he had today, where he learned how valuable these pieces of legislation will be to their industry. H.R. 971 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee and H.R. 1474 has been referred to the House Energy and Commerce and the Ways and Means Committee.
05.14.2007	The Idaho Delegation has introduced in both the House and Senate resolutions aimed at commending the efforts of Idahoans to bring to Idaho the largest sporting event in state history during 2009—the Special Olympics World Winter Games. The resolutions, originally authored in the House by Congressman Bill Sali and proposed by the entire Idaho delegation, salute the athletes and all who make the Special Olympic World Games possible, and offer the support of Congress for the event. “Whereas the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games will be the largest multi-sport event ever held in the State of Idaho: Now, therefore be it resolved that the Senate applauds the goals and principles of Special Olympics, salutes the athletes, coaches, family members, friends, and volunteers that make Special Olympics possible; and congratulates the State of Idaho, city of Boise and Idaho Games Organizing Committee as the host for the 2009 Special Olympics World Winter Games,” said the Senate version of the resolution. A companion measure was introduced in the House. The Delegation members said they appreciated the hard work that preceded Boise and Idaho being chosen by Special Olympics to host the 2009 World Winter Games. The Special Olympics movement includes 2.5 million people with intellectual disabilities in more than 200 programs in over 160 countries. Thousands of athletes are expected to participate in activities and compete in the 2009 World Games on February 2 – 13, 2009 in the Boise area and throughout the state.
05.11.2007	Congressman Simpson voted last night to provide needed funding to rural schools in Idaho. H.R. 2207, the Agricultural Disaster Assistance and Western States Emergency Unfinished Business Appropriations Act for 2007, includes $425 million to help counties with large amounts of federal land make up for lost tax revenue. The bill passed the House of Representatives with a final vote of 302-120. "In many counties in Idaho, the federal government is the biggest land owner," Simpson said. "Because these counties can't collect taxes from the federal government, they face an uphill battle to find adequate funding for education and other critical programs. The funding included in this bill will meet an important need in these areas." The bill also reauthorizes the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act for one year. This Act provides an alternative source of education funding for counties with a high percentage of national forests or federal land. "Many rural counties and schools in Idaho depend on the county payments provided through the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act," Simpson said. "Reauthorization of this program is critical, and this one-year fix gives Congress time to find a long-term solution to this problem." H.R. 2207 also includes important emergency assistance to farmers and funding for wildfire suppression.
05.10.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson announced today that he has signed on to two important initiatives for rural America. Simpson is cosponsoring of H.R. 1929, the Save the Family Farm and Ranch Act of 2007 and H.R. 1600, the Eat Healthy America Act. The Save the Family Farm and Ranch Act (H.R. 1929) would allow farm and ranch families to exempt land assets used in their business from the onerous penalties of the Estate Tax. The legislation would allow the exemption to remain in place as long as the land is used for agricultural purposes. H.R. 1929 would help ensure that farming and ranching families can pass on their way of life, and lifelong work, to future generations. “Many families are faced with difficult estate planning because of the death tax. Too often, farmers and ranchers must liquidate many of their assets to pay the over burdensome tax, thus giving up their way of life. It shouldn’t be this way in America,” Simpson said. The Eat Healthy America Act (H.R. 1600) would assist farmers in detecting additional markets, both domestic and foreign, for their crops as well as aid in developing crops that are more economical and more environmentally friendly. It will also provide funding for research to combat pests and disease and provide school nutrition programs with more fruits and vegetables. The Untied States grows over 300 different specialty crops and some of Idaho’s include; potatoes, cherries, apples, onions, carrots, seeds, nursery plans, table grapes and many more. “Historically, specialty crops have not gotten the attention they deserve in the creation of our nation’s Farm Bills,” Simpson said. “We need to make the Farm Bill more responsive to the importance of specialty crops and I hope that by bringing early attention to the issue we can help create a win-win bill for both program and specialty crops.” Idaho Senator Larry Craig is the chief Republican sponsor of companion legislation in the U.S. Senate.
05.10.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson voted against H.R. 1684, the Department of Homeland Security Authorization bill last night. Simpson did not support the bill because a manager’s amendment removed large portions of the legislation. There were 86 substantive provisions in the bill that passed the committee. Regrettably, 26 sections, or 30% of the bill, were significantly revised, and 16 sections, nearly 20% of the bill were dropped entirely for final passage. The provisions dropped include language that enhanced the Department’s ability to identify and prosecute those who smuggle illegal aliens into our country by boat and secure our nation’s critical infrastructure. “The fact is the majority changed the bill to eliminate substantive border security measures and other tools necessary to stop criminals from entering our country,” Simpson said. “In the end, it dramatically reduced our ability to secure our nation instead of enhancing homeland security. Without these measures, I can not support this bill.” Other provisions that were eliminated from the bill after it passed the committee are: A provision to make it a felony offense for any person aboard a vessel under U.S. jurisdiction to smuggle a person from one country to another knowing that such person is an illegal alien. Currently, maritime alien smugglers face few consequences unless aliens face death or serious injury. Removing this provision from the bill allows smugglers operate with near impunity for bringing in illegal aliens into the United States. On average, between 6,000-10,000 migrants are interdicted at sea each year. A provision included in the base bill to require owners of high risk critical infrastructure to check employees against immigration databases in addition to the terrorist watchlist. A provision requiring foreign students studying in the U.S. to attend classes, receive passing grades, and not go unobserved for more than 60 days. The 9-11 hijackers entered the United States on student visas which allowed them to obtain drives licenses, attend flight school, but never spent one day in the classes for which they acquired their visas. A provision to establish a pilot program to evaluate mobile biometric identification capabilities in the maritime environment. Immigration violators, criminals, and possible terrorists intercepted at sea remain undetected and are simply repatriated without consequence because we lack the capability to verify identify of apprehended migrants. Having a mobile biometric solution would enhance national maritime security by screening interdicted aliens and smugglers against all available watch lists and to confirm identity using biometrics. The Department of Homeland Security Authorization bill has typically enjoyed bipartisanship support. In 2005, H.R. 1817 was reported by committee by voice vote and passed the House by 424-4; in 2006, H.R. 5814 was reported by committee by voice vote, but time ran out in the 2nd session for House action; today’s bill, H.R. 1684, was reported by committee on March 28, 2007, by 26-0, reflecting a strong bipartisan bill. “It is unfortunate the democratic leadership found it necessary to break-up this bipartisan bill. We need to work together, especially when it comes to Homeland Security,” said Simpson.
05.01.2007	Resolutions honoring Idaho potatoes, growers and the Idaho Potato Commission are being introduced in the U.S. Congress by Idaho’s Congressional Delegation. The resolutions designate May 2007 as “Idaho Potato Month” and recognize the 70th Anniversary of the Idaho Potato Commission. “The Idaho potato ‘brand’ is recognized throughout the world for its high quality and is an identifying characteristic of the great state of Idaho,” the Delegation wrote in the Congressional Resolutions. “May 2007 marks the 70th consecutive year that Idaho potatoes have been promoted by the Idaho Potato Commission, an Idaho potato industry group…recognized nationally and internationally as a top promotional authority for Idaho’s potatoes and potato products.” The Potato Month and Potato Commission resolutions are being introduced simultaneously in both the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives. The Delegation noted that Idaho’s potato industry contributes approximately $2.7 billion to the Idaho economy. Idaho produces roughly one-third of all the potatoes grown in the United States, harvesting an average of between 12 and 14 billion pounds annually. Idaho’s potato industry employs 39,000 state residents and many license plates in Idaho contain the phrase “Famous Potatoes.”
04.26.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues last night in opposing the majority’s attempt to co-opt command-and-control authority in Iraq. H.R. 1591, the Iraq Supplemental Funding Conference Report passed the house by a vote of 218-208. H.R. 1591 includes an inflexible timeline for bringing troops home, regardless of the situation on the ground in Iraq. It also ties the hands of our military commanders in the field. “Our troops put their lives in harms way everyday to protect our freedom and they deserve the best; we should not play politics with their funding,” said Simpson. “We need to provide the resources they need without attaching dangerous strings, without tying the hands of generals in the field, and without setting a timetable for defeat.” The President is expected to veto the Iraq Supplemental Funding Legislation.
04.25.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson voted in favor of H.R. 1332, the Small Business Lending Improvement Act today. The bill allows the Small Business Administration to continue the 7(a) loan program without the use of appropriations. "Small Businesses employ half of all private sector employees, and pay more than 45 percent of the United States payroll, in a sense they are the backbone of our economy," said Simpson. "I believe we must make it easier for people to obtain loans to start a new business and that is what the 7(a) loan program does." H.R. 1332 also reestablishes the SBA-Low-DOC loan program, but limits that to rural areas. There is a provision that requires the SBA to work with low-volume rural lenders to increase their utilization of this loan program. This will focus economic development to areas that need it most. Medical care providers who serve low income areas will also benefit from 7(a) loans with a 90% guarantee. "I’m pleased this bill welcomes Armed Servicemen and Women who are leaving the military to take advantage of the 7(a) loan program," said Simpson. "Recent Veterans will receive a 90% guarantee rate without regard to loan size and lender fees will be eliminated." This bill also would make some changes in Title II in order to improve the Certified Development Company Loan Program and enable Certified Development Companies (CDC) greater opportunities to provide economic development activities to small businesses. One of the most important fiscal responsibility tools in H.R. 1332 is the requirement that CDC’s liquidate their own loans. This improves the return that the government receives on foreclosed properties. For more information about the 7(a) loan program or other small business questions visit the Small Business Administration’s website at www.sba.gov.
04.24.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson demonstrated his strong support for education, teachers and Idaho Schools when he joined colleagues in passing two important pieces of education legislation today. H.R. 362, 10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds, Science and Math Scholarship Act and H.R. 363, the Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act, both demonstrate the importance of math and science education as well as Congress’ commitment to America’s future in these areas. “It’s easy for most of the world to know what they will be doing in ten to twenty years; it is what America is doing right now,” said Simpson. “Our future is unknown and in order to maintain our innovative edge, we must give teachers and students the resources they need to excel in math and science.” H.R. 362, 10,000 Teachers, 10 Million Minds, Science and Math Scholarship Act authorizes programs to improve U.S. math, science, and engineering education at all levels. These programs will develop and provide teacher training, attract math and science majors to teaching, and improve undergraduate math, science and engineering courses. “Council on Competitiveness, National Academy of Sciences, Micron Technology and other high-tech companies agree that we need to emphasize the importance of strengthening science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in the U.S. to ensure that the nation’s workforce can compete globally,” said Simpson. “The passage of these bills will help us reach this goal.” H.R. 363, Sowing the Seeds Through Science and Engineering Research Act, requires the Director of the National Science Foundation (NSF) to carry out a program of awarding grants to scientists and engineers at the early stage of their careers. Students must be attending institutions of higher education in the United States or at certain research organizations to conduct research in fields relevant to the mission of the NSF. The Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) Program will be designated as the mechanism for awarding the grants. The Department of Energy (DOE) will carry out a similar program and the Director will be required to transmit a report on efforts to recruit and retain young scientists and engineers at DOE laboratories. The bill also directs the President to periodically present the Presidential Innovation Award to individuals who develop one or more unique scientific or engineering ideas in the national interest.
04.20.2007	Idaho Congressmen Mike Simpson and Bill Sali voted in favor of H.R. 1495, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) last night. H.R. 1495 would streamline the delivery of water transportation projects and permits, increase recreational opportunities in Idaho, and make important repairs to agricultural and flood control infrastructure in Idaho. Navigation improvement is particularly important in Idaho where the Snake River feeds the lower Columbia River international gateway. Annually, about ten million tons of grain, paper products, petroleum products, and general container cargo produced by Idahoans are transported through this waterway; amounting to almost $2 billion in goods each year. "Barging products is not only the cheapest way to get goods and services from Idaho to the world marketplace, but it also keeps trucks off of our already overloaded highways and improves transportation safety in our state," said Simpson. H.R. 1495 includes provisions which allow flood damage reduction, hurricane and storm damage reduction, and environmental restoration. Most importantly, it authorizes the Corps to increase the use of waterways as an important method of transportation for America’s farmers and producers. "Idaho’s water is a fantastic asset. This legislation recognizes the role water plays as a key ingredient of our transportation, agriculture and recreation infrastructure," Sali said. "This bill will have a lasting positive impact that can be appreciated all Idahoans, whether they’re farmers who depend on our inland port at Lewiston, or they simply want to enjoy a nice outing on the shores of Lake Pend Oreille." H.R. 1495 authorizes the following Idaho Projects: Boise River General Investigation Study Dworshak Reservoir Improvements ($5.3 million) Port of Lewiston Development which Riley Creek RAMP/Albeni Falls Dam ($600,000) Fish Creek Dam ($6 million) "Our water quality has improved dramatically as a result of cooperative efforts between federal, state and local governments," said Simpson. "It is important that we work to increase and maintain a balance between our nation’s need to use, consume, and develop water with the needs of the environment." "This bill is important to Idahoans because it updates and creates infrastructure that helps us compete in the national and global marketplace," said Sali.
04.19.2007	The Idaho Congressional Delegation welcomed today’s announcement by Secretary of Agriculture Johanns that the U.S. Department of Agriculture will be providing $10.78 million to help eradicate potato cyst nematode (PCN) in Idaho. A year ago, PCN was discovered in tare soil originating from some eastern Idaho fields. Tare soil is the dirt that is attached to the potato when it comes out of the ground. Since then, an extensive survey determined that PCN is confined to just seven fields within a one-mile radius. Since PCN can cause up to eighty percent crop loss, eradication is essential. The Delegation thanked Secretary Johanns for granting their request for this assistance, “This is major news for Idaho's potato industry and the producers whose farm operations were directly affected. We commend the excellent work of Secretary Johanns and the Bush Administration in recognizing the urgency and severity of this problem and acting quickly to resolve it. This will help preserve Idaho’s potato industry.” NOTE: To link directly to this release, please use the following address: http://craig.senate.gov/releases/pr041907a.cfm. A printer-friendly version (PDF) is also available.
04.17.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson announced that his office is now accepting Service Academy Applications today. The applications for the U.S. Military Academy, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy, and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy are due on October 31, 2007. “Academy nominations give Idaho’s finest students the opportunity to serve their country, receive an elite college education and get a jump-start on a good career,” said Simpson. “Idaho consistently ranks among the top states in the quality of its nominations and we'll be looking to continue that record.” To register for an application please visit Congressman Simpson’s website at www.house.gov/simpson and look under the ‘Services for You’ tab, or the direct link is: http://www.house.gov/simpson/students-academies.shtml. You may also call Linda Culver at (208) 734-7219.
03.30.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson introduced the Children’s Dental Health Improvement Act of 2007, H.R. 1781 this week. The bill will improve coverage of dental services and improve access to dentists trained in children’s dentistry. Children ranging from 5 to 17 years of age are five times more likely to not have proper dental care than children who experience asthma and seven times greater than hay fever. A primary reason is that millions of low-income children either do not have insurance coverage for dental care or cannot receive such care because families can’t cover the co-pays. “Lack of dental care is the most prevalent unmet health need among our children,” said Simpson. “Tooth decay and other dental diseases often lead to other, more severe health-related issues in children, you could even say it is at the ‘root’ of the problem.” H.R. 1781 addresses many of the concerns in children’s dental care and if enacted would help millions of kids lead healthier lives. Specifically it: Improves Delivery of Pediatric Dental Services under Medicaid and SCHIP by providing funding for administrative resources for States to develop programs, analyze data, and educate providers in order to improve denial care delivery. Corrects Medicare Graduate Medical Education Payments for Dental Residency Training Programs by exempting dental residency training from the rolling average method used to calculate the number of full-time equivalent residents for Medicare GME reimbursements. Improves Delivery of Pediatric Dental Service Under Community Health Centers, Public Health Departments and the Indian Health Service by authorizing $40 million in annual grants for FY2008-FY2012 to improve hiring and retention of dental providers. Improves Oral Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Grants through a five step process that will improve oral health awareness and reduce the incidents of oral health disease.
03.23.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson joined his colleagues today opposing the majority’s attempt to co-opt command-and-control authority in Iraq. H.R. 1591, the Iraq Supplemental Funding legislation passed the house by a vote of 218-212. H.R. 1591 has many projects attached that have nothing to do with funding our troops in Iraq, including $400 million to extend by one year the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act, which provides payments to rural counties hurt by cutbacks in federal logging. “While I support and would love to have the funding for schools in my state, there is no amount of money that could tempt me to abandon our troops and vote for this bill," Simpson said. The legislation includes an inflexible timeline for bringing troops home, regardless of the situation on the ground in Iraq. It also ties the hands of our military commanders in the field. “Furthermore, this legislation does not focus on our troops. It does not provide resources for those in harm’s way and it does not provide them with what they need to complete their mission successfully,” Simpson said. “If the Democrats want to withdraw our troops, then they should address that issue and not cut of funding to the men and women who need it most.” H.R. 1591 will now be sent to the U.S. Senate for consideration.
03.22.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson opposed the House Democrat’s budget proposal that was considered by the House Budget Committee late last night. The proposal increases federal spending by $24 billion and raises taxes to pay for the increase. “The voters were very clear in November—they want less spending and more fiscal responsibility. Based on this budget, however, it looks like Republicans are the only ones who got that message,” said Simpson. “The one thing the Democrat Budget will do is reverse the record economic growth this nation has enjoyed since Congress enacted tax relief in 2001 and 2003.” The Democrat budget would create the largest tax increase in U.S. history, allowing important tax cuts for American families and pro-growth policies to expire in 2011. The Marriage Tax Penalty relief, the Child Tax Credit increase and the Estate Tax relief will all be gone. Families who are married will pay more than if they were single, the child tax credit will be cut in half and the estate tax returns full force. Republican tax relief has led to unprecedented economic growth and dropped the unemployment rate. More importantly, tax relief gives back to Americans their own money. The robust economic growth in this nation over the past few years is proof that individual Americans use and invest their dollars much more wisely than the federal government does. Congressman Simpson is also concerned that the Democrat Budget Proposal ignores the reality of our nation’s fiscal situation by not addressing the out-of-control growth of entitlement spending. “We owe it to our children and grandchildren to start fixing this problem that gets worse each year,” said Simpson. “Both Federal Reserve Chairman Bernanke and US Comptroller General Walker warned us that increases in entitlement program spending are causing growing deficits that cannot be solved by higher tax rates or even faster economic growth, we must start making tough decisions today for future generations.” The FY 2008 Budget will be considered by the House of Representatives next week.
03.21.2007	I want to take this opportunity to express my strong support for the Department of Energy's Global Nuclear Energy Partnership and explain some of the benefits of this exciting new effort. First and foremost, if our nation is to maintain its standard of living, grow its economy, and at the same time curb greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere - it has no other choice but to embark on a sustained effort to expand the use of nuclear power. The Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP) promises to facilitate our nation's expansion of nuclear power by looking to policies abandoned long ago in the United States but embraced for decades overseas. I have long believed that we should apply to nuclear power the same conservation ethic we apply to aluminum, glass, paper, and other re-usable materials. Nuclear fuel retains roughly 95 percent of its usable energy after its first pass through a nuclear reactor. Burying these barely-used fuel rods, and their massive energy potential, in Yucca Mountain is the functional equivalent to putting gold back into the mine. Through GNEP, we can recover usable energy, minimize the amount of long-lived high level waste requiring repository disposal, and separate out short-lived fission products for disposal as low level waste. GNEP will afford us the ability to incorporate transuranic elements which we now plan to dispose of as waste in a repository into a new, recycled fuel source and burn it all in a fast reactor. It allows us to access the vast benefits of recycling without separating out plutonium from other radioactive elements of the fuel - a potential source of diversion for use in nuclear weapons and long the Achilles heel of other recycling technologies. In my view, the approach here is fundamentally no different than those being examined in other sectors of our "energy economy" - such as the use of agricultural waste to produce bio-energy. An across the board re-evaluation of our approach to energy -- and wringing every last kilowatt hour or BTU out of our energy systems -- is going to be essential over the long term, if we are ever to reduce our large, and growing, dependence on energy now coming from the most volatile regions of the world and as we compete for energy resources with global competitors such as China or India. As enthused as I am about the national impact of GNEP, I am even more excited about the positive impact it will have on Idaho and its federally-owned nuclear laboratory. Home to more nuclear reactors than any other site in our nation's history, the Idaho National Laboratory (INL) is prepared to lead on all three major components of GNEP. INL has the history, facilities, and expertise to lead this effort for our nation. It has the local, regional, statewide, and federal support required to tackle some of the complex challenges that will face any proposal to host GNEP facilities. I am also pleased to confirm that INL is supported by a united Congressional Delegation well situated to promote GNEP's benefits in Congress and help secure the critical funding required of such an ambitious effort. To be sure, GNEP will have its detractors. It will have its naysayers. It will have its challenges and setbacks. But if there is to be any hope that we will one day build something more than one or two new nuclear reactors in our nation, then GNEP, or something very similar to it, must be undertaken. Our only other options are to forgo nuclear energy altogether or site, fund, and build several more permanent geologic repositories where we would bury even more energy gold. We must not let this opportunity for a nuclear renaissance pass us by.
03.21.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson added his name to the growing list of members of congress signing a discharge petition to force House consideration of Congressman Sam Johnson’s (R-TX) legislation supporting our troops. “Congressman Johnson knows first hand the sacrifices being made by America’s Armed Forces today and I proudly stand with him in his quest to fully fund our troops,” said Simpson. Rep. Sam Johnson introduced H.R. 511 in January this year. The bill mandates that “Congress will not cut off or restrict funding” for troops in Iraq or Afghanistan. H.R. 511 has 176 co-sponsors, but the Democrat majority has not scheduled a vote on it. In order to force the bill’s consideration a discharge petition is being signed, once 218 members (a majority) sign the petition the bill must be considered. “We can debate the President’s war strategy all day long, but the one thing we must not do is cut off funding for our troops,” said Simpson. “Americans will not stand for it as our Armed Servicemen and women deserve better.”
03.19.2007	Idaho Senators Larry Craig and Mike Crapo and Rep. Mike Simpson introduced legislation today to expand the Minidoka National Historic Site. The site was one of ten internment camps for Americans of Japanese descent during World War II. The legislation authorizes the expansion of the monument so that it will now include Hermann Farm. The Farm is significant because it was originally part of the Camp and was part of a program to give land to veterans of World War II upon their return. As one of the few “Farm-In-A-Day” promotions, local community members turned the land from desert to a farm in one day by joining together and demonstrating the same American tenacity and ingenuity that won the War. It also authorizes an eight acre site in Bainbridge Island, Washington, as part of the Site. It is the site of the first internment camp and will house the Nidoto Nai Yoni (“Let it not happen again”) memorial that commemorates this tragedy. Craig, Crapo, and Simpson introduced the legislation and said, “History is taught so that we replicate the good and don’t repeat the bad. Interning Japanese Americans was a dark day in American history, but the homesteading helped develop our land and provide income for those who sacrificed for our freedoms. This Monument will help educate Americans about our past, which helps us shape our future.” “I am pleased that the Minidoka site will provide the Magic Valley and the nation with opportunities to learn about the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II,” said Matsuye Koto, a former internee at Minidoka and retired Magic Valley small business owner. “Thanks to the leadership of the Idaho Congressional delegation, Minidoka will now tell the story about life in camp to future generations.”
03.14.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson remains a constant voice for more flexibility to No Child Left Behind and continues to support TRiO programs for higher education. Congressman Simpson expressed his support for increasing education funding during a hearing in the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education this week. He challenged Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings, who testified at the hearing, to recognize the specific challenges facing rural schools. “We can talk about increasing flexibility under No Child Left Behind until we are blue in the face, but for most of these rural schools there are no other options,” Simpson said. “We need to take a hard look at these requirements and provide rural schools with the necessary tools to help their students succeed.” Simpson’s voice for education continued when he met with members from the Council for Opportunity. He shared his support for increasing funding to the TRiO programs. “I believe that any student who wants it, should have an opportunity to go to college,” said Simpson. “Money should never be an obstacle to pursuing higher education.” The TRiO Programs were created to support Congress’s commitment to providing education opportunities for all Americans regardless of race, ethic background, or economic circumstances. TRiO grants support low-income, first-generation college students and serve 7,500 Idahoans to succeed in high school and enter college programs each year. “Many low-income students face a multitude of obstacles when they consider furthering their education,” Simpson said. “If these students are the first in their families to pursue a college education, these challenges can seem insurmountable. The TRiO programs have a profound impact on the lives of these students.”
03.09.2007	Congressman Mike Simpson is an original cosponsor of H. Con. Res. 83, supporting state and local governments for taking action to discourage illegal immigration. “This resolution simply states that the federal government should support state and local government for taking action against illegal immigration and recognizes their efforts,” Simpson said. The Federal Government has failed to take adequate measures to curb illegal immigration, placing a substantial burden on State and local government agencies to address illegal immigration. Many State and local government agencies have worked to discourage illegal immigration and help enforce our Nation's immigration laws. This action has not come without cost and the federal government must take notice. H. Con. Res. 83 states the sense of Congress is the following: (1) State and local government agencies should be supported for taking actions to discourage illegal immigration; (2) current laws governing enforcement of our Nation's immigration laws should be enforced to the highest extent of the law; and (3) enhanced border security and enforcement legislation should be passed quickly in order to ease the burden on State and local government agencies. “Our country is vast and it is going to take all levels of government working together to protect our borders,” Simpson said. “I applaud all the states and communities who are committed to solving this problem as a team, because it will take all the players to complete this enormous task.”
03.02.2007	Congressman Simpson joined colleagues in passing H. Con. Res. 47 — supporting the goals and ideals of a National Medal of Honor Day to celebrate and honor the recipients of the Medal of Honor. “Idaho has several Medal of Honor recipients including; Vernon Baker, Bernard Fisher, Ed Freeman, and Arthur Jackson,” said Simpson. “As we approach the anniversary of the first Medal of Honor awarded on March 25, 1864, I think it highly appropriate that we reflect on the lives and deeds of these brave men.” H. Con. Res 47 recommends a national day of remembrance, reflection, and celebration for those citizens who so valiantly defended our nation and protected their fellow servicemen with the most extraordinary courage and achievement—recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor. “I commend my colleagues in the House Armed Services Committee for leading an effort to commemorate the brave men who have received our nation’s highest military honor,” said Simpson. “The honor is mine to be able to recognize these heroes with a National Day of Distinction.”
02.16.2007	Idaho Congressman Mike Simpson joined 181 of his colleagues in voting against the H.Con.Res. 63, which expresses disapproval of the President’s decision to deploy more than 20,000 additional Unites States combat troops to Iraq. “This congressional resolution emboldens our enemies and undermines our troops while they are in the middle of fighting a war. By voting on a symbolic, nonbinding resolution, my colleagues are using the war and our troops for political gain,” Simpson said. “While our brave military men and women are putting their lives on the line every day in Iraq to preserve our freedoms, Congress is debating a resolution designed to do nothing more than embarrass the President.” “I believe that we should be above playing politics with war. We must continue to support the troops and provide them with the resources they need to do the job so they can return home safely.” H. Con. Res. 63 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 246-182. ###
02.16.2007	Congressman Simpson's Floor Speech about Iraq Resolution: Madame Speaker, I rise today not because I want to take part in this debate, but because I am ashamed that this Congress is engaging in it at all. I’ve heard a lot of posturing so far this week. I’ve heard a lot of hyperbole and a lot of revisionist history. I’ve also heard some things that just don’t mesh with reality. I don’t think that everything my colleagues say is completely honest. So for a moment, let’s be honest -- because that is the least we owe to our constituents and to the men and women who are fighting this war. I am willing to admit that if Congress knew in 2002 what it knows today it might not have voted to authorize the war. Knowing that Saddam Hussein apparently did not have weapons of mass destruction, Congress might have preferred to contain him, perhaps bomb him, strengthen international sanctions, and work with our allies in the region to undermine his regime. But we can’t go back to 2002 and redo that vote. We have to deal with the situation that is currently before us. And what is before us right now is a Congressional resolution that undermines our troops while they are in the middle of fighting a war that Congress sent them to fight. I do not understand why my colleagues on the other side of the aisle don’t see that. For just a moment, I want to ask my colleagues to put themselves in the positions of the thousands of soldiers on the ground in Iraq. What would you think if you learned that the very people who sent you to fight this war are now saying that they don’t support what you are doing? On the ground in Iraq, there are two things that keep you going: the thought of returning home to your family and the knowledge that you are doing something to protect your nation from terrorism. But if Congressional Democrats have their way today, they will take away from our soldiers the support of their Congress and of their Country. What a terrible message to send to these brave soldiers. For just a moment, put yourself in the shoes of the terrorists. What would you think when you heard the U.S. Congress is voting against the war? You would think you were winning. You would be encouraged by the news. You would think that everything Osama Bin Laden had said about Americans had been true all along. You would think that Americans cannot stand bloodshed and will cower from the fight. You would think that they don’t have the stomach for a long-term battle and if the terrorists just hold on, the United States will eventually leave with its tails between its legs. What a terrible message to send at the exact moment that we are preparing to send more troops into battle. At some point, my colleagues across the aisle have to let go of the fact that their newfound opposition to the War in Iraq is popular in their districts and act in the best interests for the future of our nation. This resolution isn’t a diversion, a side-show, or even a shot-across the bow. It is a dangerous message to send. I don’t say any of this lightly and I don’t say it for political reasons. I say it because I mean it. In 2006, I was the only Republican to vote against the rule when my party tried to embarrass Mr. Murtha. Then, I thought that my party was playing games with the war and I refused to support that effort. Today, I think that the other party is playing games with the war and I refuse to have any part of this. I would rather we consider a motion to pull all of our troops out of Iraq immediately than vote on this Democrat resolution that undermines our troops while at the same time puts them in harms way. This resolution is the worst of all worlds. My final thought today is that it is clear to many of us that this that the resolution is simply a Democratic attempt to embarrass President Bush. My friends across the aisle know they can not impeach him. They know they can not change the fact that many of them voted for the War in Iraq. And most of them recognize the dangers of voting to de-fund the war. So instead, they are trying to embarrass the President. I say fine, embarrass the President. Send him a message that you are now in charge. Remind him that voters demanded change last November. Do whatever you need to do, but don’t undermine our troops in the process. Leave them out of your plans for payback because they did nothing to attract your anger or frustration. Madame Speaker, what we are doing today is wrong. We’re better than this. We’re smarter than this. We’re above using the war, and our troops, for political gain. What the Democrats are doing with this resolution is not just intellectually dishonest, it is morally bankrupt. Thank you, Madame Speaker.
