03.12.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC-07) and Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC) applauded President Trump for signing the John D. Dingell, Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act, which includes a provision authored by Rouzer and Tillis to direct the Secretary of Interior to annually designate at least one city in the United States as an “American World War II Heritage City,” into law. Wilmington, North Carolina is likely to be among the first cities to receive the honor. Congressman Rouzer and Senator Tillis introduced the same provision as standalone legislation in January. “Following eleven years of hard work and exceptional dedication by Captain Wilbur D. Jones, I am excited and proud that his idea to honor cities for the preservation of their significant contributions during World War II has now become a reality,” said Congressman Rouzer. ”Our community and state are extremely fortunate to have Captain Jones leading the fight to preserve and honor the City of Wilmington for her legacy and contributions during the war.” “After years of work with Congressman Rouzer and Wilmington officials, today marks a major step toward designating Wilmington as an American World War II city,” said Senator Tillis. “It is vital we pay recognition to cities across the nation – including Wilmington – that made significant contributions during World War II to secure America’s victory in Europe and the Pacific, and have worked to preserve this history.” The American World War II Heritage City designations are based on specific criteria, including the contributions a city made toward the efforts to secure America’s victory in the European and the Pacific theaters during World War II, as well as the efforts made by cities to preserve the history of the their World War II contributions through the preservation of museums and organizations, restoration of facilities that helped with the war effort, and a city’s overall recognition of World War II veterans. During World War II, Wilmington was the home of the North Carolina Shipbuilding Company. The shipyard was created as part of the U.S. government's Emergency Shipbuilding Program. Workers built 243 ships in Wilmington during the five years the company operated. The city was the site of three prisoner-of-war (POW) camps from February 1944 through April 1946. At their peak, the camps held 550 Nazi prisoners. The first camp was located on the corner of Shipyard Boulevard and Carolina Beach Road; the old Confederate post Fort Fisher housed Nazi prisoners and also served as a training site for the Coastal Artillery and anti-aircraft units. A smaller contingent of prisoners was assigned to a smaller site, working in the officers’ mess and doing grounds keeping at Bluethenthal Army Air Field, which is now Wilmington International Airport. Bluethenthal Army Air Field was used by the United States Army Air Forces’ Third Air Force for antisubmarine patrols and training. ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following House consideration of H.R. 1: “The new Democratic majority has made clear its top priority is putting in place measures to allow the federal government to interfere in our country’s election system forcing taxpayers to fund campaigns they may not support. A ‘one size fits all’ federally mandated approach, at the expense of hard-earned taxpayer dollars, is not in the best interest of our citizens or nation, which is why I strongly oppose this measure.” Background information on H.R. 1: H.R. 1 takes hard-earned taxpayer dollars and puts them into the campaigns of politicians. The bill creates a 6:1 government match for all small donor contributions of $200 of less – meaning that for every $200, the federal government will match $1,200. This program would cost billions of taxpayer dollars per year. Taxpayer dollars will be going to support entrenched politicians and political consultants who the American people may not necessarily agree with or want to support. Creates a new voucher pilot program that provides eligible voters a $25 voucher of taxpayer dollars for individuals to donate to any campaign of their choosing. Authorizes an inappropriate use of taxpayer dollars by granting federal employees six days of paid vacation to serve as poll watchers. H.R. 1 increases the election system’s vulnerability for fraud by creating a “one size fits all” federally mandated approach to voter registration and voting practices. This will force states to adopt election practices with no safeguards. In place of government issued ID’s, this measure would accept sworn statements of identification which will lower the integrity of the voter registration and voting system. This bill would make it mandatory to accept provisional ballots at any location – even if someone votes at the wrong polling precinct. These votes could sway local elections not applicable to the voter. Same-day registration would become mandatory opening the possibility for fraud with little to no verification measures. H.R. 1 places limits on free speech by imposing vague standards that disadvantage all groups who wish to advocate on any legislative issue. This measure restricts speech by requiring groups speaking about federal candidates and elected officials to file more reports with the Federal Elections Commission (FEC). Would require groups speaking about legislative and policy issues to file FEC reports even if the speech has no impact on any election campaign or wasn’t said in an election year. ###
02.20.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer announced details for a Hurricane Recovery Roundtable, an information session and overview of the critical recovery efforts led by non-profits and companies in the 7th District. The roundtable will take place at the Ed Emory Auditorium, located at 165 Agriculture Drive, in Kenansville on Monday, March 4th from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. The Hurricane Recovery Roundtable seeks to provide constituents with the opportunity to learn more about services available to those still recovering from Hurricane Florence. Members of the public will also have the opportunity to visit informational booths set up by local non-profits and companies. Representatives from the following organizations will be present at the Hurricane Recovery Roundtable: Federal Emergency Management Agency, North Carolina Department of Public Safety, North Carolina Farm Bureau, Salvation Army, Food Bank of Eastern North Carolina, Disaster Recovery Group of Duplin County, Habitat for Humanity, Duke Energy, North Carolina Baptist Men, North Carolina Cooperative Extension, American Red Cross. All constituents of the 7th District are encouraged to attend. Doors will open at 6:00 p.m. and the roundtable will begin at 6:30 p.m. Members of the press wishing to interview Congressman Rouzer must RSVP to coordinate logistics by emailing Danielle.Smotkin@mail.house.gov. ###
02.10.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the passing of Congressman Walter B. Jones: “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Congressman Walter B. Jones. He humbly served the great people of Eastern North Carolina in the state legislature and in Congress for more than 30 years. Having known Walter for more than twenty-three years, I can attest to his great faith in our Creator and his servant’s heart. The citizens of this state and country have lost a great friend whose influence will be felt for generations to come. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Joe Anne, his daughter, Ashley, and other loved ones during this very difficult time.” ###
02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald Trump’s State of the Union Address: “President Trump laid out a visionary agenda for a strong, secure and more prosperous America. Tremendous progress has already been made on many fronts. And if every member of Congress would be willing to come to the table to negotiate with the President, there is no limit to the incredible progress that could be achieved to strengthen our immigration laws and improve border security, rebuild our infrastructure, lower the cost of good quality healthcare and prescription drugs, and grow our economy even more so that every American has an even greater opportunity to get ahead. I encourage my colleagues to focus on the significant opportunity we have to make a difference for the country. The President’s speech was an excellent first step.” ###
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following President Trump’s announcement to temporarily reopen the government: “The agreement announced today by the President to temporarily reopen the government provides Democrats with yet another opportunity to come to the table and negotiate in good faith. It is my hope that we are finally at a place where a bipartisan agreement can be forged over the course of the next few weeks that secures our borders and protects our citizens.” ###
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Rouzer and the United States Coast Guard released the statements below following the announcement that USCGC Diligence will depart Wilmington to Pensacola, Florida as decommission of cutter nears: “USCGC Diligence has a long history of serving many important missions since she was commissioned 54 years ago – 27 years of which she called the Port City ‘home,’ said Congressman David Rouzer. “As one of the oldest ships in her fleet, Diligence is reaching the end of her service life and therefore will head to Pensacola, Florida in 2020 with other cutters to ultimately be decommissioned. On behalf of our entire community, I am grateful for her service to Southeastern North Carolina and appreciate the Coast Guard’s continued presence and steadfast commitment to our area, including the $6.7 million repair to the bulkhead which is essential to the City of Wilmington's plan to revitalize the waterfront.” “Coast Guard Cutter Diligence has been a part of the Wilmington community for over 25 years,” said Lieutenant Commander Scott McBride of U.S. Coast Guard Public Affairs. “While no cutters are scheduled to replace Diligence in its current location, we will continue to have a strong relationship with Wilmington for many years to come. Wilmington will remain a designated Coast Guard City, and home to Coast Guard Sector North Carolina. Diligence is over 50 years old and will be decommissioned in the coming years. Diligence’s move prepares the Service to welcome its newest ships, the Offshore Patrol Cutter. The new Offshore Patrol Cutters are 360 feet in length and unfortunately the cutters cannot be maintained at the existing facilities in downtown Wilmington. ###
01.20.2019	Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the President’s proposal to end the partial government shutdown: “The President put forward a very sensible compromise proposal that would end the partial government shutdown and address the most pressing needs on immigration — funding for border security including the hiring of more agents, protection for DACA recipients and Temporary Protected Status holders, funding for more immigration judges, and additional funding for humanitarian assistance and medical care. These are all very reasonable and needed measures. Speaker Pelosi may have objected to this proposal right out of the gate, but that doesn’t mean the rest of the Democrat conference must. They should demand the Speaker come to the table and negotiate in good faith.” ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following his vote against H.R. 268 -- Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2019: “The supplemental appropriations bill brought to the floor today is nothing but a political ‘gotcha’ vote designed to go after Republicans by coupling disaster relief, which includes language that I have co-authored, with a Continuing Resolution all the while knowing it will not be considered by the Senate or signed by the President. In other words, this is nothing more than a political sham. The right vote is ‘no.’” ###
01.09.2019	Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the President’s address to the nation regarding border security: “Terrorists and others who wish us harm are attacking our border and trying to penetrate this country in multiple ways. Thousands are being apprehended at our southern border, but there are many others who escape detection. It only took 19 terrorists to carry out the atrocities on 9/11 — even one illegal entry by a terrorist is bad. During the course of the past few years, our nation has experienced an influx of very dangerous individuals with criminal records and many on the terrorist watch list, an increase in human trafficking, and a lethal spike in drug trafficking. This affects us all. Just in North Carolina, the heroin and fentanyl being smuggled across the border are taking the lives of our family members, friends, and neighbors. This is all part of the crisis. For these reasons, any spending deal must include funding for border security. I applaud President Trump and his commitment to securing our borders and standing firm until it is done. I urge my Democrat colleagues to come to the table and work towards a bipartisan agreement that will properly fund border security and those portions of the government that are affected by the shutdown.” ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the conference report to Accompany H.R. 2 – Agriculture Improvement Act sending the five-year farm bill to the President’s desk for his signature. The 2018 Farm Bill conference report is the result of an agreement reached between both chambers of Congress that will strengthen the farm safety net, incentivize work and make critical investments to support rural communities, farm families, and American consumers. “America’s farm families are facing a great deal of uncertainty now more than ever, especially in eastern North Carolina where Hurricane Florence dealt a devastating blow. I am very pleased that we were able to reach a compromise agreement with the Senate that delivers a stronger safety net for North Carolina's farm families,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “In addition to enhancing crop insurance and other farm programs, the conference agreement increases the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s capacity to combat the opioid crisis, expands quality broadband access, and makes significant investments in animal disease preparedness critically important to North Carolina and the nation. The agreement also makes more than 30 improvements to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) while enabling additional immediate improvements to be made by the Administration.” “House Republicans refused to stop fighting for rural America and we’ve reached a deal that sets us on a better path – for producers, for rural communities and for American consumers,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Michael Conaway. “David has been a strong advocate and critical voice for production agriculture in this farm bill conference process and I’m thankful for his leadership, which helped get this across the finish line.” BACKGROUND: The agriculture industry contributes $87 billion to North Carolina’s economy, accounting for more than 17 percent of the state’s economy, and employing 17 percent of the state's workforce. As the Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, Congressman Rouzer led efforts to authorize and fund $300 million in mandatory funding for animal disease research/coordination, including the deployment of a Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine bank. These provisions were included in the 2018 Farm Bill conference report. ###
12.11.2018	Washington, D.C. – This week, the House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman David Rouzer’s bill, H.R. 6118, to direct the Department of Interior to designate one city per year as a nationally recognized “American World War II City.” Due to the hard work and dedication of Wilmington native Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., USNR (Ret.), who is a distinguished author and veteran active in the community, the idea of honoring Wilmington as the Nation’s first World War II City is one step closer to being achieved. “Our state and country is fortunate to have Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., advocating to recognize Wilmington and other cities for their significant contributions during World War II,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “As many from the Greatest Generation know, the City of Wilmington was a major contributor to a nationwide effort during World War II to assist with the many components of war production such as defense manufacturing, the production of food and consumer items, and much more. Passage of this bill brings Wilmington one step closer to receiving the recognition it so rightfully deserves.” “Thank you to Congressman Rouzer for taking on this fight for recognition of the proud service and sacrifice made by our Wilmington community during such a crucial time in not only our nation’s history, but world history,” said Mayor Bill Saffo of Wilmington. “This has been an effort that has taken many turns over the years and we appreciate his seeing it through to what we hope will be a successful end. Also, thank you to the tireless efforts and leadership from one of our most esteemed Wilmington residents, Captain Wilbur Jones. So much of Wilmington’s World War II history and heritage would be lost were it not for his great works.” H.R. 6118 directs the Secretary of the Interior to designate at least one city in the United States each year with this illustrious title. These cities will be designated based on their significant contributions to the war effort and their work preserving the history of WWII. During the 114th Congress, H.R. 1721 passed the House of Representatives via H.R. 677, the American Heroes COLA Act of 2015, which provided for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year to men and women who have served our country. That legislation died in the U.S. Senate. Any bill that did not become law during the 114th Congress had to be reintroduced in the 115th Congress to be considered again. Congressman Rouzer re-introduced the bill, which was designated as H.R. 6118, in March of 2017. ###
12.11.2018	
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 302, Federal Aviation Authorization Act of 2018, which included a $1.68 billion down payment for Hurricane Florence disaster relief. The relief includes $1.14 billion in Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery (CDBG-DR) Program funding for North Carolina to support recovery activities such as housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. “I thank the House leadership, the appropriators and my other colleagues for working with me and the rest of the North Carolina Delegation during the past two weeks since Hurricane Florence hit to put together this initial disaster recovery package. The swift action Congress is taking today is the first step towards supplementing recovery efforts at the local and state levels by providing an additional $1.14 billion for North Carolina through the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) Disaster Relief program, which provides the most flexibility for the state to best address recovery needs. I also want to thank our two U.S. Senators, Richard Burr and Thom Tillis, for their work to get this bill passed in record time in the U.S. Senate.” Background: Prior to the landfall of Hurricane Florence, Congressman Rouzer began laying the groundwork necessary for a coordinated response from all levels of the government, including making calls to House and Senate leadership in anticipation of the need for supplemental disaster assistance. On Monday, September 10, Congressman Rouzer signed onto a North Carolina delegation-wide letter to President Donald J. Trump urging the support of Governor Roy Cooper’s request for an Emergency Declaration under Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. On Friday, September 14, Congressman Rouzer signed onto a delegation-wide letter to President Trump in support of Governor Cooper’s request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. On Saturday, September 15, Congressman Rouzer spoke with Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy to update him on damage left by Florence and advocate for securing an initial CDBG-DR appropriation. On Wednesday, September 19, Congressman Rouzer updated President Trump on how the 7th District fared in the hurricane and urged continued federal support of recovery efforts. On Thursday, September 20, Congressman Rouzer led efforts in sending a letter along with Reps. Price, Hudson, Holding, Pittenger and the South Carolina delegation to Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi asking for an initial appropriation of CDBG-DR funds to expedite the rebuilding of the Carolinas be included in a legislative vehicle prior to adjourning Congress in October. Today, Wednesday, September 26, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 302, which included $1.6 billion in disaster funding for the Carolinians as well as language that allows access to other critical funding. ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation sent a letter to President Trump requesting that the administration swiftly approve Governor Cooper’s request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration as Hurricane Florence brings historic flooding and destruction to counties across North Carolina. “The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days,” the members wrote. “Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request.” “Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process,” the members continued. “We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state.” Full text of the letter to the President is below. September 14, 2018 Dear Mr. President, As Members of Congress representing the people of North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Cooper's request for an expedited Major Disaster Declaration for the State of North Carolina under Section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act for events occurring since September 14, 2018, and which are still occurring. The expedited Major Disaster Declaration is for both individual assistance and public assistance, including direct federal assistance for counties across North Carolina. Hurricane Florence has only begun to make landfall and has already inflicted tremendous damage across North Carolina’s coastal counties. The severity of damage and number of areas impacted is rapidly increasing and is forecast to worsen drastically in the coming days. Accordingly, we sincerely appreciate your timely consideration of this expedited Major Disaster Declaration request. Currently 76 counties have declared local states of emergency, 22 counties are under a hurricane warning with an additional 23 counties under tropical storm warnings. Due to evacuations, the state has already opened 131 shelters, housing over 6,900 residents. Additionally, 2,800 National Guardsmen have been activated and numerous search/rescue and high water rescue teams have been deployed. Although the totality of devastation will continue to unfold, it is imperative that North Carolina has the resources now to begin the recovery process. We thank you for granting our advanced emergency declaration request on September 10, 2018, and we commend your administration for its diligence and assistance thus far. We again respectfully request you approve this Major Disaster Declaration consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act to allow our local and state officials, in coordination with federal partners, to begin rebuilding our great state. Sincerely, Richard Burr Thom Tillis George Holding Richard Hudson Walter B. Jones David Rouzer Virginia Foxx David E. Price Mark Walker Alma Adams G.K. Butterfield Ted Budd Mark Meadows Patrick McHenry Robert Pittenger ###
09.10.2018	
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s entire Congressional delegation sent a letter to President Trump requesting that the administration approve Governor Roy Cooper’s Emergency Declaration in advance of Hurricane Florence’s landfall. “Hurricane Florence poses an imminent and dangerous threat to North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state to once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources,” the members wrote. “An Emergency Declaration will provide the needed assistance to the state and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Florence. We respectfully request you approve this declaration and enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act.” Full text of the letter to the President is below. September 10, 2018 Dear President Trump, As Members of Congress representing the people of North Carolina, we write in support of Governor Cooper's request for an Emergency Declaration under Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief Act. We respectfully request your immediate consideration and approval of this Emergency Declaration as the state prepares for Hurricane Florence. Since April 2018, North Carolina state and local emergency management agencies have responded to tornado damage in Guilford and Rockingham Counties and major flooding and mudslides in 34 of our western counties. Hurricane Florence poses an imminent and dangerous threat to North Carolina, and its approach necessitates the state to once again activate the State Emergency Response Team and numerous other state resources. An Emergency Declaration will provide the needed assistance to the state and local communities to allow them to properly prepare for the effects of Hurricane Florence. We respectfully request you approve this declaration and enable North Carolina to prepare for the potential disaster, consistent with the intended purposes of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Stafford Act. Richard Burr Thom Tillis Alma Adams Mark Meadows David E. Price Richard Hudson Walter B. Jones David Rouzer Robert Pittenger George Holding Ted Budd G. K. Butterfield Virginia Foxx Patrick McHenry Mark Walker ###
09.06.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Natural Resources held a hearing examining H.R. 6118 – Congressman David Rouzer’s bill to designate and recognize the city of Wilmington as the first nationally recognized “American World War II City.” Due to the hard work and dedication of Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., USNR (Ret.), a Wilmington native, distinguished author and veteran active in the community, the idea and introduction of this bill came to fruition. Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., testified on behalf of the bill during the hearing. “Our region is fortunate to have Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., advocating on behalf of the great city of Wilmington to be recognized for its enormous contributions during World War II,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “The city of Wilmington was regarded as the defense capital of the state during this period with major industries such as shipbuilding, fertilizer plants, agriculture, manufacturing and clothing factories supporting the efforts of the American military. Today’s hearing brings the city of Wilmington one step closer to receiving the recognition it so richly deserves.” “Following twenty years of working to preserve our region’s World War II history, ten of which have been devoted to designating the great city of Wilmington as the first ‘American World War II Heritage City,’ I am more confident than ever after today’s hearing that we will achieve our goal,” said Captain Wilbur Jones. “My testimony on Congressman Rouzer’s bill not only strengthened our position to see the bill through but also brought national attention and awareness to our efforts. On behalf of the World War II Wilmington Home Front Heritage Coalition, I thank Congressman Rouzer for his continued steadfast support and leadership. I look forward to the House of Representatives passing Congressman Rouzer’s bill so that it can head to the Senate for its consideration.” Congressman David Rouzer and Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr. H.R. 6118 directs the Secretary of the Interior to designate at least one city in the United States each year with this illustrious title. These cities will be designated due to their significant contributions to the war effort and their work preserving the history of WWII. If passed by Congress and signed into law, the city of Wilmington would be the first “American World War II City.” During the 114th Congress, H.R. 1721 passed the House of Representatives via H.R. 677, the American Heroes COLA Act of 2015, which provided for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year. The legislation was not passed in the U.S. Senate however. Those bills that did not become law during the 114th Congress had to be reintroduced in the 115th Congress to be considered again. Congressman Rouzer re-introduced the bill, which was designated as H.R. 6118, in March of 2017. Congressman David Rouzer introducing Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr. Captain Wilbur Jones testifying in front of the House Committee on Natural Resources. To view the archived hearing, please click here. ###
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, members of the House of Representatives and the Senate appointed to serve on the bipartisan Farm Bill Conference Committee held a public meeting as work begins to produce a final Farm Bill that can pass both chambers. During the meeting, members delivered opening remarks highlighting the shared goal of strengthening the farm safety net during a time when net farm income is down by 52 percent from where it stood five years ago and farm bankruptcies are up 39 percent over the past two years. “Agriculture is the number one industry in North Carolina – contributing more than $87 billion to our state’s economy,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “We all know that America’s farm families are facing a great deal of uncertainty, which is why producing a strong Farm Bill is critically important. As the Chairman of the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, I am pleased that both the House and Senate versions of the Farm Bill include provisions to make investments in animal disease preparedness as well as establish an animal health vaccine bank with a primary focus on protecting livestock from the very devastating Foot and Mouth Disease. I look forward to working with my colleagues to produce a final product that will serve our farm families and the American people well.” “Today my colleagues in the House and Senate highlighted the urgency in farm and ranch country and just how desperate times are as net farm income is expected to fall again this year,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway. “I’m thankful to have David on the conference committee as a strong advocate and critical voice for production agriculture in this farm bill conference. We still have a lot of work to do, but I believe we can and must get this done on time.” BACKGROUND: The agriculture industry contributes $87 billion to North Carolina’s economy, accounting for more than 17 percent of the state’s economy, and employing 17 percent of the state's workforce. As the Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, Congressman Rouzer led efforts to authorize and fund $450 million to enhance the USDA’s ability to identify, diagnose and respond to potential animal disease outbreak, including $150 million in year one to establish a new U.S.-only vaccine bank with priority for stockpiling Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine. To view the archived webcast, please click here. ###
08.27.2018	Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below on the passing of Senator John McCain: “I was saddened when we all first learned that Senator John McCain was diagnosed with a very lethal form of brain cancer, knowing that his passing would likely come soon. Our time on this Earth is short and each of us have a calling for the time here that we are granted. His was to public service and this country — and what a very dedicated public servant he was. I have always admired his tenacity and commitment to do what he felt was right, and as a nation we all mourn the loss of his life and service. My thoughts and prayers are with Cindy, his wife, his family, loved ones and the countless others who had the honor of knowing and working with him.” ###
08.01.2018	Senator Thom Tillis, Chairman Mike Conaway (TX), North Carolina Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler will join a roundtable to discuss economic impact WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, August 3rd, 2018 at 9:00 a.m., U.S. Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC), U.S. Senator Thom Tillis (R-NC), U.S. House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), and North Carolina Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler will convene a National Agriculture Leaders Roundtable to discuss the threat that nuisance lawsuits pose to the U.S. agriculture industry, rural America, and farm families nationwide. The roundtable will be comprised of federal officials, state officials, economists, and national agriculture industry representatives, including the President of the American Farm Bureau, Zippy Duvall. “Today’s nuisance lawsuits that are destroying livelihoods and communities in North Carolina are the tip of the iceberg for what is to come absent a well-informed public and good public policy. A ‘nuisance’ is very much in the eye of the beholder and every single farm family that is in compliance with all applicable regulations – no matter what they are growing – should have a safe harbor from legal action being brought against them. This is a very slippery slope that threatens the very existence of every form of agriculture nationwide,” said Congressman David Rouzer. "I want to thank Congressman Rouzer for hosting this roundtable to hear directly from North Carolina's farmers about how the nuisance lawsuits could affect their livelihoods. The influence from outside lawyers in this case has the potential to decimate our state’s vibrant agriculture industry and the countless rural communities supported by it. Agriculture is the number one industry in North Carolina, and it is important to hear from those affected by this threat. These lawsuits have the potential to affect the agriculture community and farmers nationwide, and I look forward to participating in this event to learn how North Carolinians could be affected and how we can help," said Senator Thom Tillis. “Agriculture is a blessing that most of us count on at least three times a day. Not a nuisance. People need to understand that every food item starts on a farm, not a grocery store shelf. When we take our farmers and food production for granted, we stand to literally lose the hand that feeds us. I am grateful that others are paying attention to this issue which could affect farmers everywhere,” said Agriculture Commissioner Steve Troxler. Media planning to attend should RSVP to Danielle.smotkin@mail.house.gov WHO: Chairman David Rouzer, U.S. House Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Chairman Michael Conaway, U.S. House Committee on Agriculture Senator Thom Tillis Commissioner Steve Troxler, North Carolina Department of Agriculture & Consumer Services President Zippy Duvall, American Farm Bureau Federation Commissioner Hugh Weathers, South Carolina Department of Agriculture North Carolina State Senator Brent Jackson North Carolina State Representative Jimmy Dixon North Carolina State Representative Ken Goodman Lieutenant Governor Dan Forest North Carolina House Majority Leader John Bell Dr. Kelly Zering, North Carolina State University U.S. Department of Agriculture Under Secretary Bill Northey, Farm Production and Conservation Barb Glenn, CEO of National Association of State Departments of Agriculture Commissioner Gary Black, Georgia Department of Agriculture Secretary Michael Scuse, Delaware Department of Agriculture Commissioner Sid Miller, Texas Department of Agriculture Dr. Howard Hill, Past President of National Pork Producers Council Kerry Doughty, CEO of Butterball Brad Cornelius, CEO of Cape Fear Farm Credit Dave Corum, CEO of AgCarolina Vance Dalton, Jr., CEO of Carolina Farm Credit Gary Floyd, Executive Vice President of L. Harvey Inc. American Soybean Association National Association of Wheat Growers National Cotton Council National Corn Growers Association United Egg Producers NC Peanut Growers Association North Carolina Sweet Potato Commission National Chicken Council American Feed Industry Association National Cattlemen’s Beef Association National Turkey Federation Agricultural Retailers Association National Pork Producers Council WHAT: Roundtable with state and national agriculture leaders to discuss nuisance lawsuits WHEN: Friday, August 3, 2018 9:00 A.M. EST Members of the press are invited to set-up at 8:00 a.m. WHERE: Gov. James G. Martin Building, North Carolina Fairgrounds 1025 Blue Ridge Road, Raleigh, North Carolina 27607 The Martin Building is located inside the Fairgrounds, and can be accessed from any open gates into the State Fairgrounds - best accessed from Gate 9 (Turn from Blue Ridge Road onto Trinity Road – after entering Gate 9, the rear of Martin Building will be straight ahead with parking around the front. For more information on directions, please click here RSVP: Danielle.smotkin@mail.house.gov 804-337-2846 ###
07.27.2018	Below are a list of treatment facilities throughout the 7th District, as well as best practices used to combat the opioid epidemic: Best Practices If you have any further questions, please contact our Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-2731.
07.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced his recent appointment to serve on a bipartisan and bicameral conference committee charged with producing a final Farm Bill to strengthen the farm safety net and make critical reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, commonly referred to as “SNAP.” “I am honored Speaker Ryan, along with House Agriculture Committee Chairman Conaway, appointed me to serve on the conference committee tasked with working out policy differences between the House and Senate versions of the 2018 Farm Bill. A strong Farm Bill is critical to our farm families and rural communities – not to mention its role in ensuring that every American has access to the safest, most affordable food supply in the world. I look forward to working with my colleagues in both chambers to produce a bill that is good for rural America, our economy, and makes the necessary policy changes to incentivize work, strengthen workforce training opportunities and improve the lives of those who need it most,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “David’s knowledge on agriculture issues make him an obvious choice for the Farm Bill conference committee. As the Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, David has led efforts critical to the prevention and mitigation of potential animal disease outbreaks. We are pleased to have him lend his perspective during the upcoming negotiations,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. “Today, we move one step closer to delivering a strong, new farm bill to the president’s desk on time as he has called on Congress to do. America's farmers and ranchers and rural America are struggling right now and they deserve the certainty of a strong farm bill to see them through to better times. The House has pulled together a solid team of conferees – including Rep. Rouzer. I’m looking forward to working with David, who has been a strong voice for agriculture through this process, and the rest of our House and Senate colleagues to reach a final product that helps millions of low-income Americans climb the economic ladder, while standing by our nation’s hard-working farm and ranch families,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11). ###
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced details for the 7th District Opioid Symposium which builds upon his work to raise awareness, decrease the stigma, and inform members of the community on best practices throughout the district in an effort to curb the opioid epidemic. “The 7th District of North Carolina is comprised of nine counties with a wide range of communities from urban to very rural. Throughout the district there are unique challenges presented by the opioid epidemic with a variety of initiatives that have been taken to address them. The objective of the 7th District Opioid Symposium is to gather the best and brightest from across Southeastern North Carolina, those who have been working tirelessly on the issue, to spark a meaningful dialogue district-wide laying out best practices to address the issues of stigma, rehabilitation, prevention and enforcement. The Opioid Symposium will also serve as a resource for those who are either struggling or have a loved one struggling with addiction to learn where they can go for treatment and recovery in all nine counties across the 7th District. I am especially grateful to the wide-range of dedicated community servants who agreed to join my Opioid Steering Committee and have been meeting and collaborating with my office during the past 10 months to prepare for and make this event a reality. The 7th District Opioid Symposium will help complement the many efforts being made at all levels of the government to curb this scourge.” Congressman David Rouzer’s 7th District Opioid Symposium WHO: Congressman David Rouzer hosts 7th District Opioid Symposium WHAT: A symposium, comprised of four different panels, to share best practices throughout the 7th District as it relates to stigma, treatment and resources, prevention and law enforcement WHERE: The 7th District Opioids Symposium will be held in Wilmington at the Coastline Conference & Event Center located on 501 Nutt Street. In an effort to make the event as accessible as possible, the Opioid Symposium will also be streamed live via Congressman Rouzer’s Facebook and Youtube pages. For those in the northern part of the 7th District who are unable to attend the event in Wilmington, there will be a simulcast of the Symposium at the Maxwell Regional Agriculture and Convention Center located at 3114 Wayne Memorial Drive in Goldsboro. Those wishing to attend the event in Wilmington are asked to RSVP here. WHEN: Monday, July 30th from 6 to 8 p.m. HOW: Members of the press wishing to attend the event must RSVP to Danielle Smotkin at DANIELLE.SMOTKIN@MAIL.HOUSE.GOV. Further details regarding media availability, satellite streaming, panelists and other logistics will be shared closer to the date of the event. ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement after the passage of Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 Defense Appropriations Bill which designates $674.4 billion in total funding to rebuild our Armed Forces, restore military readiness, and support our troops. The FY2019 Defense Appropriations Bill boosts funding for our military by $17.1 billion, provides $245.9 billion in increased funding for military readiness programs, and authorizes a 2.6% pay raise for our troops – the largest pay raise in nine years. “The FY2019 Defense Appropriations Bill is critical to replenishing the necessary funding our military so badly needs to rebuild and combat the many threats to our national interests as well as the homeland. I remain committed to ensuring that our military has the resources and financial support needed to improve our military capabilities and restore the U.S. Armed Forces to greatness again. Our men and women in uniform and the country deserve no less.” ###
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment (SUPPORT) for Patients and Communities Act which makes reforms to Medicaid, Medicare, and public health programs and policies. “Opioid addiction is a horrific problem for North Carolina and the rest of the country. Unfortunately, no community is immune to this epidemic. This legislation, which was approved by the House, seeks to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs, like Fentanyl, which is responsible for countless overdoses and deaths in the 7th District. While there is no silver bullet to this epidemic, the SUPPORT Act will help complement the many efforts being made at all levels of the government to curb this scourge.” Background: The policies contained in H.R. 6 were advanced by the House Energy and Commerce and Ways and Means Committees. This bill will serve as the underlying vehicle for the majority of House-passed opioid bills to move over to the Senate for its consideration. For more information on bills the House of Representatives have passed to combat the opioid crisis, please click here. ###
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the passage of H.R. 2 – the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, commonly referred to as the 2018 Farm Bill: “A strong farm bill is critical to our farm families and rural communities — not to mention its role in providing every American with the safest, most affordable food supply in the world. The 7th District will especially benefit from the Farm Bill because of the steps taken to prevent potential animal disease outbreaks, the enhancements made to the farm safety net, and the investments made to help address the infrastructure needs of our rural communities. The Farm Bill also makes critical reforms to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in an effort to maintain vital nutrition assistance for those who truly need it while providing work-capable adults receiving these benefits with the incentives necessary to get a job, participate in workforce training if needed, and improve their lives. Hopefully, the Senate will pass its version of the Farm Bill soon so negotiations can begin to produce a final bill that is good for America’s farm families, our economy, and makes the policy changes necessary to incentivize those who are perfectly work-capable to gain the skills necessary to find a rewarding job.” BACKGROUND: The agriculture industry contributes $84 billion to North Carolina’s economy, accounting for more than 17 percent of the state’s economy, and employing 17 percent of the state's workforce. As the Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, Congressman Rouzer led efforts to authorize and fund $450 million to enhance the USDA’s ability to identify, diagnose and respond to potential animal disease outbreak, including $150 million in year one to establish a new U.S.-only vaccine bank with priority for stockpiling Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine. The Farm Bill makes improvements to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by assisting those who struggle to put food on the table, while providing critical job training to help recipients learn the skills necessary to attain better-paying jobs and better futures for themselves and their families. Under the Farm Bill, work capable adults (age 18-59) are required to either work or participate in work training for 20 hours per week in order to receive any benefit. Excluded from these requirements are seniors, disabled individuals, those caring for children under six, or those who are pregnant. For more on the 2018 Farm Bill, please click here. ###
06.19.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer released the statement below: “I share the concern of many who are troubled that children are being separated from their families at our southern border. Our nation’s immigration laws must be reformed, and loopholes in current law closed, so that we can have a secure border, deter illegal immigration, and ensure that families remain together. This week, the House is scheduled to vote on legislation to address all of these issues after months of work to craft legislative language that can pass in the House. It is my hope that the House and Senate will ultimately produce a bicameral bill with meaningful reforms that can be sent to the President for his signature. Time is of the essence.” ###
06.07.2018	Washington, D.C. – Last night, the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018 which seeks to strengthen our nation’s infrastructure by authorizing funding for locally driven investments, including the Carolina Beach renourishment project. “North Carolina’s 7th Congressional District is fortunate to have some of the most beautiful beaches in the United States — a direct contributor to our state’s vibrant tourism industry. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I was pleased to be able to include language in the Water Resources and Development Act (WRDA) critical to the future of Carolina Beach. I thank Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR) for their help and support of all of our federally authorized beaches in Southeastern North Carolina.” BACKGROUND: Carolina Beach’s Coastal Storm Damage Reduction project reached the end of its 50-year federal authorization in 2014. The Water Resources and Development Act of 2018 includes Rouzer’s language to make clear that the Army Corps of Engineers’ potential extension for the Carolina Beach re-nourishment project would officially begin at the time of initiation of construction, which is a major priority for the Town of Carolina Beach. Under current law, it could be easily left to interpretation as to when the statutory maximum 15-year extension of the project would start. The bill language also includes an extension of authorized nourishment for an additional 3 years to prevent any disruption while the required study is being completed. ###
05.25.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement following the passage of the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a bill passed by Congress every year to authorize funding levels for the military and our men and women in uniform: “During the course of the past decade, our military has just been getting by – facing yearly cuts in funding harming our ability to train and provide the equipment necessary for our troops to complete their missions in a safe and efficient manner while also making it that much more difficult to keep up and counter the emerging threats to our homeland. As a result, we have had a serious readiness crisis that has resulted in four times as many deaths due to training accidents as compared to those killed in combat. This is unacceptable. Thankfully, that reality began to change last year with a National Defense Authorization (NDAA) Bill that authorized significant increases in funding for our men and women in uniform. However, it is going to take some time to dig out of this hole and this year’s NDAA bill makes even more progress in doing just that." The FY19 NDAA: Authorizes $717 billion in defense spending to support out troops and help close the readiness gap; $18.6 billion to begin to rehabilitate and replace worn out Army equipment $39.5 billion to begin to overcome the crisis in military aviation $23.3 billion to sustain, repair and rebuild crumbling military buildings and other infrastructure $21.8 billion for equipment maintenance and $3.7 billion in spare parts Provides a 2.6% raise for our troops – the highest pay increase in 9 years; Increases the size of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Makes critical investment in missile defense and our nuclear deterrent; Makes key investments in other critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address threats around the world, including threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran; Authorizes funding for co-development and co-production of missile defense and weapons systems with our key ally, Israel; and, Includes Congressman Rouzer's language to provide greater flexibility to terminally ill veterans, in the form of a waiver, wishing to change their Survivor Benefits Plan. This language was a result of a veteran, battling Parkinson’s disease, contacting one of Rouzer’s District offices in an attempt to modify the beneficiary for his plan. ###
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, members of North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation sent a letter to Governor Roy Cooper requesting information on the distribution of Hurricane Matthew recovery funds provided to the state of North Carolina through the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) Program. In the letter to Governor Cooper, members of the Congressional Delegation ask for clarification on why the State of North Carolina has been slow to allocate Hurricane Matthew recovery funds, with HUD recently designating North Carolina as a “slow spender” not within the monthly spending pace required to fully use the funds by the closeout date of August 2023. Since the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Matthew’s landfall, North Carolina’s Congressional Delegation has been working on a bipartisan basis to secure federal funding to assist in the state’s ongoing recovery efforts. In February, the N.C. Congressional Delegation secured roughly $168,000,000 in CDBG-DR funds to support North Carolina’s family and community needs, including housing, infrastructure, and jobs. This additional CDBG-DR funding added to the $236,500,000 that the N.C. Congressional Delegation has secured in past spending bills. “It is deeply concerning that these federal disaster dollars are not being released when many North Carolina families are still living in temporary housing provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA),” the members wrote. “We strongly urge your office in consultation with North Carolina Emergency Management to distribute funding quicker. Timely and efficient administration of these secured funds is critically important to families and businesses across North Carolina still recovering from hurricane Matthew. Any further delay may also have unacceptable consequences on any future disaster aid requests.” Full text of the letter to Governor Cooper is below. May 25, 2018 Dear Governor Cooper: As members of the North Carolina Congressional delegation, we write to request additional information about the distribution of funds provided to the State through the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Relief (CDBG-DR) Program. It is our understanding that to date, North Carolina has received $404 million from HUD for 2016 Hurricane Matthew recovery efforts, but as of May 2018, nearly two years later, the State has failed to allocate significant portions of these funds. Our Congressional delegation remains committed to the successful recovery of our state and its families and businesses. On October 8, 2016, Hurricane Matthew made landfall in North Carolina, devastating the central and eastern areas of our state. The severity of the flooding impacted homes and businesses far beyond the boundaries of the 100-year floodplain. The storm caused power outages in more than 800,000 households, displaced nearly 3,750 residents from their homes, shutdown 635 roads and 34 school systems, and tragically took the lives of 28 North Carolinians. Immediately in the aftermath, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation began working with your office, the relevant federal agencies, and colleagues on the Appropriations Committees to ensure that impacted North Carolinians received the federal assistance necessary to begin the rebuilding process. On January 18, 2017, HUD announced $198.5 million in CDBG-DR funding for North Carolina’s recovery efforts. The CDBG-DR grant program supports a variety of disaster recovery activities including housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, and infrastructure repair. On May 18, 2017 and August 1, 2017, HUD released $6.1 million and $31 million, respectively, in CDBG-DR funding to North Carolina. The State received its final allocation of $168 million on April 11, 2018 as a result of the North Carolina delegation’s continued work to include the funds in the fiscal year (FY) 2018 federal budget. Our offices invested significant time and resources to assist those impacted by Hurricane Matthew. During and after the storm, we made every effort to support the agencies and nonprofits who came to North Carolina to assist our residents. Therefore, it is troubling to learn that these CDBG-DR funds are delayed in reaching those in most need of assistance. It is even more frustrating to learn that according to HUD, our state is not within the monthly spending pace required to fully use the assistance by the target closeout date of August 2023 and has been designated a “slow-spender.” North Carolina has the potential to lose millions of dollars in disaster relief aid if it continues to allocate funds at this rate. This leads us to the following questions: 1. Is the state action plan, required by HUD to receive CDBG-DR dollars, finalized for the funds released on or prior to August 1, 2017, and is that $236 million in CDBG-DR assistance available to the state of North Carolina? Have you submitted to HUD a state action plan for spending the additional $168 million in CDBG-DR funds for approval? 2. How much of the available CDBG-DR funds have been spent to date? What is the timeline for getting the remaining CDBG-DR dollars to those in need? 3. What are the primary goals of your administration when spending the CDBG-DR funds? Have you determined if housing redevelopment and rebuilding, business assistance, economic revitalization, or infrastructure repair are the most pressing needs of our residents? Are these goals and priorities consistent with those made available to the public, as required? 4. What public awareness campaigns have been conducted by your office to bring awareness to these available funds to maximize education and understanding for our constituents who would be eligible for these CDBG-DR funds? It is deeply concerning that these federal disaster dollars are not being released when many North Carolina families are still living in temporary housing provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). We strongly urge your office in consultation with North Carolina Emergency Management to distribute funding quicker. Timely and efficient administration of these secured funds is critically important to families and businesses across North Carolina still recovering from Hurricane Matthew. Any further delay may also have unacceptable consequences on any future disaster aid requests. The North Carolina Congressional delegation remains ready to work with your office to ensure the successful and complete recovery of our state and its resilient residents. Sincerely, Thom Tillis Richard Burr Walter B. Jones Virginia Foxx Richard Hudson David Rouzer Robert Pittenger George Holding ###
05.23.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure passed comprehensive water resources infrastructure legislation, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2018. WRDA seeks to strengthen our nation’s infrastructure by authorizing funding for locally driven investments in our country’s water resources infrastructure. Carolina Beach’s Coastal Storm Damage Reduction project reached the end of its 50-year federal authorization in 2014. The legislation passed today includes Rouzer’s language to make clear that the Army Corps of Engineers’ potential extension for the Carolina Beach re-nourishment project would officially begin at the time of initiation of construction, a major priority for the Town of Carolina Beach. The language included in this bill ensures that a newly authorized cycle of nourishment would start at the beginning of construction – not at the end of its previously authorized 50-year cycle, at the start of the required study that began in 2014, or any other arbitrary point in time. The bill language also includes an extension of authorized nourishment for an additional 3 years to prevent any disruption of nourishment while the required study is being completed. “As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am very pleased that this bill included my language to ensure that Carolina Beach receives the longest new cycle of authorized nourishment possible, pending the Corps’ approval of the project’s continuation, as well as an additional 3 years of authorization in the interim to provide more time for the required study to be completed. Our ports, beaches, inlets, and waterways are the lifeline of economic activity and job growth for our coastal communities and remain a top priority of mine in order to address the unique, coastal needs of North Carolina’s 7thDistrict. ###
05.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced Anna Lawrence, a senior of John T. Hoggard High School, the winner of the NC-07 Art Competition. Lawrence’s entry, entitled “Venus Flytrap Garden,” is a depiction of a cluster of venus flytraps growing from mossy soil using the medium of colored pencil. Lawrence’s artwork demonstrated and reflected this year’s Art Competition theme, “What I Love Most About North Carolina.” “It is an honor to announce Hoggard High School’s Anna Lawrence as the winner of the 2018 Art Competition,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Anna’s artistic talent is inspiring and she is well-deserving of this once in a lifetime opportunity. Her winning artwork will be displayed on the wall of the tunnel between the Cannon House Office Building and the Capitol. Hers is a great representation of the exceptional talent of our young people and the great natural beauty of North Carolina’s 7th Congressional District for every visitor, staffer, and Member of Congress to see.” Winners are presented with two round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Lawrence’s art will be showcased for eleven months in the Capitol tunnel, which is walked by thousands of visitors from across the country. This year’s NC-07 Art Competition theme was, “What I Love About North Carolina.” Anna Lawrence’s winning entry, “Venus Flytrap Garden” ###
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman David Rouzer testified in front of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to discuss two VA-related issues impacting veterans and citizens of the 7th Congressional District. As part of the Committee’s first-ever bipartisan Member Day, Congressman Rouzer had the opportunity to bring attention to H.R. 5500, a bill Rouzer recently introduced to help veterans restore their credit score in those cases where the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) failed to pay outside providers or were delayed in making payment. Rouzer also brought attention to the long-time water contamination issue at Marine Corps Base Camp Lejeune in Jacksonville, North Carolina. Rouzer introduced H.R. 5500 after hearing from multiple veterans in the 7th Congressional District who have had their credit destroyed as a result of mismanagement and delays at the VA. Rouzer also raised the ongoing Camp Lejeune water contamination issue to encourage the Committee to continue to use its influence to make those veterans who have been harmed eligible for benefit coverage of their care. To watch Congressman Rouzer’s testimony, please click here. ###
05.16.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5674, the Department of Veterans Affairs Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act, which makes critical reforms to veteran healthcare programs, providers, and access. Included in the VA MISSION Act is text from H.R. 2419, Congressman Rouzer’s bill, to improve the processing of claims for reimbursement through electronic interface and improve the VA’s adherence to the prompt payment schedule. “The 7th Congressional District is blessed to have a large community of veterans. The VA MISSION Act makes vital reforms to ensure our nation’s heroes have timely access to the care and resources they have so bravely earned. I am pleased the House Veterans Affairs Committee included my language to allow the VA to work with third party entities to help expedite and process electronic healthcare claims in an effort to improve the efficiency and turnaround of the claims process. Our veterans are the very best our country has to offer. I look forward to the Senate taking up this critical bill so that President Trump can sign these much-needed reforms into law.” The VA MISSION Act streamlines the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) duplicative community care programs into one cohesive program, creates a non-partisan process for reviewing VA’s assets, and expands the VA’s Post-9/11 Caregiver Program to all eras. The VA MISSION Act includes funding for the Veterans Choice Program, which is expected to run out of funds as early as May 31, 2018. Additionally, the language authored by Congressman Rouzer allows the Department of Veterans Affairs to enter into agreements with third parties to facilitate and expedite the electronic claims process from community providers. ###
05.15.2018	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. David Rouzer (NC-07) and Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02), co-chairs of the Congressional Primary Care Caucus, led a group of bipartisan members in writing to Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar to ask for swift consideration of the Advanced Primary Care Alternative Payment Model (APC-APM), a new model for primary care payment that requires the Secretary’s approval before implementation among Medicare providers can begin. In 2015, Congress passed the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act (MACRA) which created a roadmap for transitioning Medicare providers from providing ‘high-volume’ services, to ‘high-value’ services. This roadmap consists of two paths for providers; one called the Alternative Payment Model (APM) and one called the Merit-Based Incentive Program. For providers to participate in the APM track, these models must be approved by the Secretary. The APC-APM is one model, developed by the American Association of Family Physicians, designed to improve the way Medicare pays for primary care and how patients receive care. It includes a per-member monthly payment to physicians to cover population health and in-person visits, and additional payments to cover email and phone consultations. This flexible model is designed to reduce the administrative burden associated with reporting and billing to focus more resources on patient care. “We believe that the APC-APM proposal is consistent with the Administration’s goals of preserving independent medical practices, lowering the cost of health care, and reducing the administrative burden for physicians and other health care providers,” wrote the members. “If fully implemented, the APC-APM would allow more than 200,000 primary care physicians to engage in a payment model that promotes the value of primary care through comprehensive and continuous patient-centered primary care.” Michael Munger, MD, president of the American Academy of Family Physicians, said “The AAFP’s APC-APM is the first payment model founded on primary care to be approved by the Physician-Focused Payment Model Technical Advisory Committee (PTAC). It is a foundational element in the movement to value-based care, as envisioned under MACRA, because it is designed to expand primary care physicians’ access to APMs—including small, independent and rural practices—and it’s designed with a standard of patient choice. We appreciate and welcome the support of the Primary Care Caucus and its leaders Reps. Joe Courtney and David Rouzer.” The APC-APM has been approved by the MACRA-created Physician-Focused Payment Model Technical Advisory Committee (PTAC), which recommended pilot implementation of the model. Secretary Azar must approve the proposal before this testing can begin. Since the law’s passage, only one APM has been approved. ###
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran Deal: “President Trump is right to pull out of the Iran deal and to re-impose sanctions. The agreement has proved to be horribly flawed, just as many of us have warned since day one. Iran is the number one state sponsor of terrorism providing direct aid to regional proxies such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and the Taliban — all for the ultimate purpose of destroying Israel and America. The agreement ultimately would have guaranteed Iran a nuclear bomb capable of reaching the United States. The President’s action today is a very good first step to help stop Iran’s nuclear weapons program from advancing further." ###
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4) – a five year, bipartisan reauthorization bill to provide long-term stability for the nation’s aviation community, bolster investment in airports across the country, improve America’s competitiveness, strengthen passenger protections, and ensure our aviation system is the safest in the world. “The aviation industry supports 11.3 million jobs and generates $1.5 trillion in economic activity. House passage of this bill is the latest in our ongoing efforts to strengthen and modernize our country’s infrastructure, a key component to growing our economy and creating jobs. More than 47 million passengers fly to and from North Carolina each year, and the FAA Reauthorization Act is critical to airports of all sizes, such as Wilmington International Airport, Clinton-Sampson County Airport, Goldsboro-Wayne Municipal Airport, Johnston County Airport, Columbus County Municipal Airport, Duplin County Airport, and Cape Fear Regional Jetport among many, many more throughout the state.” The FAA Reauthorization Act eliminates red tape so that manufacturers are better able to innovate and compete in the global market, upgrades airport infrastructure systems to enhance flight experience, and makes improvements to federal disaster relief programs so that our communities are better prepared for, and can recover quicker from, hurricanes and other natural disasters. ###
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – After hearing from multiple veterans in the 7th District encountering issues with their credit, as a result of the Department of Veterans Affairs, Congressman Rouzer introduced H.R. 5500, the Veterans Credit Protection Act of 2018. H.R. 5500 seeks to address the VA’s long history of delayed payments to outside service providers, including for emergency medical treatment. “There are many veterans across the 7th District and our country who have had their credit destroyed, through no fault of their own, as a result of mismanagement and delays at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Unfortunately, I have discovered that the VA has a long history of either being significantly delinquent on paying medical bills or —even worse — not paying outside providers at all. Many times, veterans are forced to call congressional offices to help fix these credit issues. After hearing from and assisting hundreds of veterans, it became apparent that a legislative solution is necessary to help remedy this inexcusable problem. Passage of this bill would mean that veterans would no longer have to worry that their credit might be ruined due to the VA’s failure to pay their claims.” H.R. 5500 addresses the backlog of payments, restores faith in the VA, and provides veterans help in rectifying credit or financial damage that has already been done. ###
04.14.2018	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following President Trump's announcement regarding air strikes in Syria: "I applaud the Trump Administration for taking action against brutal dictator Bashar al-Assad. This is not the first time his regime has deployed chemical weapons on defenseless civilians, including women and children. Russia and Iran are equally responsible for they are, if nothing else, financing Assad and keeping his regime propped up. I'm pleased to see our President respond and lead our country and Allies in significantly degrading Assad’s chemical weapon capabilities. This sends a clear message to our enemies who engage in this despicable behavior. I know every citizen joins me in saying a special thanks to all the brave men and women who serve our country and make it the greatest force mankind has ever known.” ###
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman David Rouzer joined members of the House Committee on Agriculture in unveiling H.R. 2 -- the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, commonly referred to as the 2018 Farm Bill, which funds vital farm programs through 2023. The Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 works to address the 5-year, 52 percent decline in farm income by providing certainty that a simple extension of current policy cannot provide. “North Carolina is blessed to be one of the most agriculturally diverse states in our great country. Unfortunately, farm families throughout America have had to weather a 5-year recession, depressed prices resulting in a 52-percent drop in net farm income. The 2018 Farm Bill seeks to strengthen the farm safety net and makes other important improvements to current law that will benefit our rural communities, improve wildlife habitat, and enhance the environment. Additionally, H.R. 2 streamlines and reduces regulatory burdens, significantly improves access to rural broadband, helps communities meet the challenges of the opioid crises, and maintains vital nutrition assistance for those who truly need it while increasing opportunities for these recipients to receive workforce training, get a job and improve their lives. This Farm Bill is the result of three years of legislative work, and I am proud to stand alongside my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee to put forth this common-sense bill. We have the safest, most affordable food supply in the world, and this farm bill will provide the stability and certainty that our farm families need so this outstanding record can continue.” The Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018: · Spends $112 billion less than what the 2014 Farm Bill was projected to spend; · Reauthorizes and strengthens the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) options through 2023; · Makes 35 improvements to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by assisting those who struggle to put food on the table, while providing critical job training to help recipients learn the skills necessary to attain better-paying jobs and better futures for themselves and their families. Under the Farm Bill, work capable adults (age 18-59) are required to either work or participate in work training for 20 hours per week in order to receive any benefit. Excluded from these requirements are seniors, disabled individuals, those caring for children under six, or those who are pregnant; · Streamlines and reduces regulatory burdens; · Authorizes $1.1 billion in annual appropriations to provide broadband service to harder-to-serve rural areas to help promote jobs and economic activity in rural America; · Provides the Secretary of Agriculture the necessary tools to help combat the ongoing opioid crises; · Provides $450 million to enhance the USDA’s ability to identify, diagnose and respond to potential animal disease outbreak, including $150 million in year one to establish a new U.S.-only vaccine bank with priority for stockpiling Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) vaccine; · Strengthens the investment in locally-led, voluntary, incentive-based conservation on working lands to promote healthy soils, reduce erosion, provide cleaner air and water, and enhance wildlife and wildlife habitat; and, · Requires further research and development to create risk management products that work more effectively for farm families affected by hurricanes or other disasters. ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, President Donald Trump announced the “Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand” in an effort to curb the opioid epidemic. The initiative aims to reduce drug demand and over-prescriping, is designed to help cut off the supply of illicit drugs, and focuses resources on those struggling with addiction. Following the announcement, Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below: “Opioid addiction is an horrific problem for North Carolina and the rest of the country. It represents one of the most significant challenges our communities, parents, law enforcement officers, local health departments, treatment facilities, and schools — among others — have ever faced. Unfortunately, no community is immune to this epidemic. I applaud the Trump Administration’s initiatives to address the major factors fueling this epidemic and the proposed solutions to help curb it. These initiatives will only help and complement the many efforts being made at all levels of government to raise awareness, collaborate across county lines, and develop new approaches to curb this scourge in our communities.” The Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse and Reduce Drug Supply and Demand: Launches a nationwide evidence-based campaign to raise public awareness about the dangers of prescription and illicit opioid use; Supports research and development efforts for innovative technologies and additional therapies designed to prevent addiction; Implements a Safer Prescribing Plan in an effort to cut nationwide opioid prescription fills by one-third within three years; Leverages advanced screening technologies to prevent the illegal smuggling of drugs through our land borders, ports of entries, and waterways; Provides the DOJ with greater flexibility to prosecute criminally negligent doctors, pharmacies, and distributors; Strengthens criminal penalties for dealing and trafficking in fentanyl and other opioids; Expands access to evidence-based addiction treatment in every state; and, Provides on-demand, evidence-based addiction treatment to service members, veterans and their families. ###
02.27.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer is now accepting submissions for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. All high school students who are residents of the 7th Congressional District are encouraged to participate. The winning entry will be displayed in the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. “This year’s art competition is an opportunity for students to creatively express what they love most about our beloved Tarheel State. The winning artist from the 7thDistrict will have their artwork on display for eleven months in the Capitol tunnel, which is seen by thousands of visitors from across the country, Congressional staffers and members of Congress. Every time I go to the House floor to vote, I walk through this tunnel which serves as a constant reminder of the impressive talent and creativity of high school students throughout North Carolina and across the country.” High school students from across the 7th Congressional District are invited to enter their best artwork reflecting the theme, “What I Love About North Carolina.” Students wishing to participate in this year’s art competition are asked to submit their artwork to Congressman Rouzer’s district office in Four Oaks, Bolivia or Wilmington by Friday, April 27, 2018. Each student will be allowed to submit up to two (2) entries. Winners are presented with two round trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners. Guidelines for the 2018 artwork: Artwork must be two-dimensional; Each piece must be no larger than 26”x26”x4” - including the frame; Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs; Work entered must be in the original; and, Artwork does not need to be framed for judging of the contest. However, the winning piece of art must be framed in order to be hung in the U.S. Capitol. Acceptable mediums for submissions: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor etc.; Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers; Collage; Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints; Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc.; Computer generated art; and, Photography. The deadline for students to submit their artwork is Friday, April 27th. Students interested in participating in the competition are encouraged to contact Marylou Cooke in the Bolivia office at (910) 253-6111. ###
02.21.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement on the passing of the Reverend William Franklin Graham Jr. who died at age 99 at his home in Montreat, North Carolina: “I’m deeply saddened by the passing of the Reverend Billy Graham, a very cherished Christian leader and an exemplary North Carolinian. Known as ‘America’s Pastor,’ Reverend Graham dedicated his life to proclaiming the Gospel throughout the world. It is estimated that he reached an estimated 215 million people in more than 185 countries, and many of those millions heard his message and accepted Christ as their Lord and Savior. There is no doubt he was called by God, and he heeded that call as well — if not better — than anyone else ever has. To say he is one of the most admirable moral and Christian leaders mankind has ever seen is an understatement. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends and loved ones. Reverend Graham's unwavering commitment to Christ and influence will continue to be felt for generations.” ###
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer announced two recent staff changes among his district staff following the departure of Dwight Williams, who had been serving as the congressman’s district director. Mr. Williams was recently appointed to serve as Clerk of Superior Court for Sampson County. “Dwight Williams has been integral to our North Carolina district operations, overseeing district events and constituent operations, since I was sworn in to serve in the United States House of Representatives in January of 2015. I am very thankful for Dwight’s service and wish him the best as Clerk of Superior Court for Sampson County. He will be of great service to the citizens of Sampson County in this new role.” Chance Lambeth, who had been serving as the Congressman’s deputy district director, has been promoted to district director. “I am proud to announce the promotion of Chance Lambeth to the job of district director. Chance has developed strong relationships throughout the district and has a great understanding of the unique needs of our coastal communities. With this promotion, Chance will oversee all constituent services while continuing to focus on the coastal and infrastructure needs of Southeastern North Carolina.” Lisa Littler, former constituent services director, has been promoted to serve as deputy district director. “It is an honor to announce the promotion of Lisa Littler to the job of deputy district director where she will continue to build upon her years of experience serving the great citizens of the 7th Congressional District. Having worked with Lisa during our time together in the Washington office of U.S. Senator Jesse Helms, I know that she will excel in this new role while continuing to provide exceptional constituent service.” Lambeth and Littler have been with Congressman Rouzer since his swearing in January of 2015. Lambeth will be based out of the Bolivia and Wilmington offices while Littler will be based out of the Four Oaks office. ###
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the declassification of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) memo: "Today’s declassification of the memo produced by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is a major step towards providing transparency of the facts regarding the Steele dossier, which include its use by the FBI and Department of Justice (DOJ) in their application to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court for authorization to surveil an individual associated with the Trump campaign. The memo is based on documentation provided by the FBI and DOJ and the Committee’s analysis of all of the evidence made available to them. It clearly shows that relevant and critical information about the dossier, including that it was paid for by the Democrat National Committee and the Clinton campaign, was not shared with the Court — information that could have easily led the Court to deny surveillance. It is my hope that the release of this memo will advance the efforts of Congress to ensure that similar abuses never occur again in any administration — Republican or Democrat.” Key Revelations from Declassified Memo The Steele dossier formed an essential part of a FISA application targeting Carter Page. Former FBI Deputy Director McCabe confirmed that no surveillance warrant would have been sought from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) without the Steele dossier information. FBI and DOJ obtained from the FISC an initial warrant, and three FISA renewals. Then-FBI Director James Comey signed three FISA applications in question on behalf of the FBI, and former Deputy Director Andrew McCabe signed one. Then-Deputy Attorney General (DAG) Sally Yates, then-Acting DAG Dana Boente, and DAG Rod Rosenstein each signed one or more FISA applications on behalf of DOJ. Steele was paid over $160,000 by the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and Hillary for America (Clinton campaign) for his dossier. Neither the initial application in October 2016, nor any of the renewals, disclose or reference the role of the DNC, Clinton campaign, or any party/campaign in funding Steele’s efforts, even though the political origins of the Steele dossier were then known to senior DOJ and FBI officials. While the FISA application relied on Steele’s past record of credible reporting on other unrelated matters, it ignored or concealed his anti-Trump financial and ideological motivations. Before and after Steele was terminated as a source, he maintained contact with DOJ via then-Associate Deputy Attorney General Bruce Ohr. In September 2016, Steele told Ohr, he “was desperate that Donald Trump not get elected and was passionate about him not being president.” Ohr later relayed this evidence of Steele’s bias to FBI, where it was recorded in official files, but not included in any of the FISA applications. None of the FISA applications mention that the FBI had separately authorized payment to Steele for the dossier information. According to the head of the FBI’s counterintelligence division, Assistant Director Bill Priestap, corroboration of the Steele dossier was in its “infancy” at the time of the initial Page FISA application. In early January 2017, Director Comey briefed President-elect Trump on a summary of the Steele dossier, a document he later described as “salacious and unverified.” The Page FISA application incorrectly assesses that Steele did not directly provide information to Yahoo News. Steele has admitted in British court filings that he met with Yahoo News—and several other outlets—in September 2016 at the direction of Fusion GPS. Perkins Coie, the law firm that hired Fusion GPS on behalf of the DNC and Clinton campaign, was aware of Steele’s initial media contacts, and hosted at least one meeting in Washington D.C. in 2016 with Steele and Fusion GPS. Ohr’s wife was employed by Fusion GPS to assist in the cultivation of opposition research on Trump. Ohr later provided the FBI with all of his wife’s opposition research, paid for by the DNC and Clinton campaign via Fusion GPS. The Page FISA application also mentions information regarding fellow Trump campaign advisor George Papadopoulos, but there is no evidence of any cooperation or conspiracy between Page and Papadopoulos. ###
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald Trump’s State of the Union Address: “President Trump laid out a bold, optimistic vision for a safe, prosperous, and strong America. Under President Trump’s leadership, we will work to build on the legislative accomplishments of this past year to bring about historic progress for the citizens of this country. I look forward to working with my colleagues to help achieve this ambitious agenda. Doing so will enable our country to be even more prosperous at home and stronger than ever abroad.” ###
01.20.2018	Congressman Rouzer’s statement regarding the government shutdown: “Our country faces the greatest foreign threats since World War II. The Schumer Shutdown means our troops are not paid and veterans cannot receive the benefits they are rightfully due. It means nearly 100,000 national guardsmen will be sent home from training. It means that Pilot Training and other training programs will be cancelled harming our readiness and putting operations in severe jeopardy. Senate Republicans have 51 members, and it takes 60 votes in the U.S. Senate to pass a Continuing Resolution to reopen the federal government. Senate Democrats should join Senate Republicans to do what is right for our men and women in uniform — end the Schumer Shutdown.”
12.22.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald Trump signing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) into law: “Today is truly historic. For far too long, individuals, families and businesses have been burdened by an outdated and unfair tax code that has been a drag on our economy and has penalized hard work,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I applaud President Trump for signing this tax relief and reform bill into law so that hardworking taxpayers will finally have a tax code that respects the challenges they face and will deliver the relief they so richly deserve. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will lower taxes and encourage investments that will lead to the wealth creation necessary to boost wages and create even more new jobs. The recent announcements of pay raises and bonuses by major corporations are already proving this.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed arguably the biggest tax cut and reform package in history. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) overhauls the tax code to bring back jobs from overseas, improve America’s competitiveness in the global economy, and create a much more dynamic economy that will naturally generate increased wages. This legislation provides historic tax relief for American workers, families, and job creators. “For far too long, individuals, families and businesses have been forced to comply with an outdated and burdensome tax code that penalizes their effort and hard work and has been a drag on our economy,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “This tax relief and reform bill respects hardworking taxpayers and the challenges they face by lowering taxes, by making tax-filing much simpler, and by creating an environment that will lead to the wealth creation necessary to drive job growth and increase wages. This is truly a historic day in the House of Representatives, and I look forward to the bill’s passage in the Senate tomorrow.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates at 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% Significantly increases the standard deduction from $6,500 to $12,000 for individual filers and $13,000 to 24,000 for joint filers Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 Preserves the mortgage interest deduction up to $750,000 Expands the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5% of adjusted gross income and then rises to 10% beginning in 2019 Continues and expands the deduction for charitable contributions Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty tax starting in 2019 Maintains the Earned Income Tax Credit Exempts tuition waivers for graduate students from being taxed Retains popular retirement saving options such as 401 (k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future Doubles the amount of the current Death Tax exemption Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% (beginning Jan. 1, 2018) – down from 35%, which is the highest in the industrialized world Offers a first-ever 20% tax deduction that applies to the first $315,000 of joint income earned by all businesses organized as S corporations, partnerships, LLCs and sole proprietorships Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans Retains the low-income housing tax credit Preserves the Research and Development Tax Credit Eliminates incentives that reward companies for shifting jobs, profits and manufacturing plants abroad ###
12.06.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald J. Trump’s press conference recognizing the city of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. “I strongly support President Trump’s move to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. For thousands of years the historic and national identity of the Jewish people has been under attack by extremists and others wishing to cause harm and destruction to the people of Israel. Jerusalem has always been the rightful capital of Israel. I’m very grateful that President Trump not only recognizes this fact, but has the courage to act on it. I urge our allies in the Middle East and throughout the world to join the United States in recognizing Jerusalem as Israel’s eternal capital.” BACKGROUND: In 1995, the House of Representatives and Senate passed the 1995 Jerusalem Embassy Act with the purpose of moving the United States embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, as well as recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. For the last two decades, American presidents have exercised the law’s waiver on a semi-annual base to suspend the relocation of the embassy. In his speech, President Trump instructed the State Department to develop a plan to relocate the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. ###
12.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States Senate passed their version of a tax reform bill paving the way for both chambers to go to a conference committee where differences in the House and Senate versions will be ironed out to produce a final tax reform bill. “For too long, we have been forced to comply with an outdated, expensive and burdensome tax code that works against the vast majority of working Americans,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Passage of tax reform by the United States Senate is a huge victory for the American people, our economy, and country. The respective House and Senate versions of tax cuts and reform respect hardworking taxpayers and the challenges they face by returning money to those who earned it. As the House and Senate go to conference to produce a final bill, we will work to deliver a bold, pro-growth tax package that will create a healthier economy, many more jobs and bigger paychecks.” With the support of Congressman Rouzer, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) was passed by the United States House on Thursday, November 16, and was sent to the United States Senate for consideration. Passage by the United States Senate will result in what is known as a conference committee where members of both chambers will reconcile the differences between the two bills and produce a final version that must be approved by the full House and Senate. It would then be sent to the President to be signed into law. ###
11.16.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed arguably the biggest tax cut and reform of the tax code in history. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) is a bold, pro-growth tax bill aimed at improving the standard of living for all Americans, strengthening our economy, and bringing jobs back. “This legislation respects hardworking taxpayers and the challenges they face by making the tax code clearer, simpler, and fairer. This bill will bring about a healthier economy creating more jobs, increasing wages, and leaving more money in your paycheck. Under the provisions of this legislation, for the average family of four, the first $55,000 earned would be tax free,” said Congressman David Rouzer. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the current individual tax rates from 10% to zero, 15% to 12%, and then retains the 25%, 35% and 39.6% brackets, and adjusts the range of income subject to these brackets enabling Americans to keep more of the money they earn. Eliminates special-interest deductions. Doubles the standard deduction so that everyone – regardless of income level – will benefit. For example, the first $12,000 an individual earns would be tax free – up from $6,000 under current law. Joint filers will receive a standard deduction of $24,000 versus $12,000 under current law. And, most notably, the first $55,000 earned for the average family of four would be tax free. Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the increased costs of raising children and, in addition, establishes a new Family Credit of $300 for filers and non-child dependents. Under current law, many small businesses are required to pay taxes on net business income at the highest marginal tax rate of 39.6%. This bill provides relief to small businesses by reducing the rate to no more than 25% — the lowest on small business income since World War II. Implements a new, lower 9% tax rate on the first $75,000 of net business income for active small business owners earning less than $150,000 through their businesses. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment in each year through 2022 to improve operations and unleash job and paycheck growth. Repeals the Death Tax after six years and immediately doubles the exemption. Eliminates the personal and business Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Eliminates the unintended incentives in the current tax code that have resulted in jobs moving overseas. Encourages jobs to be brought back from other countries, greater productivity and higher wages by lowering the corporate tax rate from 35%, which is the highest in the industrialized world, to 20%. ###
11.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer voted in support of Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), a bill considered by Congress every year to authorize funding levels for the military to continue its operations, strengthen our readiness, care for our troops and remain a global leader. Specifically, the FY18 NDAA Conference Report authorizes base budget requirements of $634.2 billion, a $26.4 billion increase above the President’s budget request. “Our military today is essentially operating with the equipment purchased during the Reagan Administration. That was three decades ago. In recent years, our military has just been getting by – facing automatic yearly cuts due to the Budget Control Act of 2011 – absent annual intervention by Congress to restore some of the funding. Unfortunately, these cuts have occurred at time when the world has grown that much more dangerous. For these reasons, I voted for the FY18 NDAA Conference Report, which provides the authorization for our troops to receive the largest pay raise in 8 years, reforms the way the Pentagon does business, increases the size of our military, and authorizes key investments in critical military capabilities to confront aggression and address the ever-evolving threats from around the globe. Passage of this bill is important to not only our national defense, but also for our military installations in North Carolina. It is my hope that the appropriators will act swiftly to fully fund these authorized levels of spending.” The FY18 NDAA Conference Report: Authorizes increases to the size of the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force Army Guard and Reserve, Naval and Air Reserve, and Air Guard; Fully funds a 2.4% pay raise for our troops; Permanently preserves Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA) payments to surviving military spouses so that individuals whose spouses died either on active duty or during retirement will continue to receive $310 per month plus COLA indefinitely; Includes additional physical examinations, mental health assessments and a study on safe opioid prescribing practices; Protects victims of sexual assault and enhances tools available to prosecute perpetrators; Increases funding by $1.4 billion to restore and modernize military facilities and installations; Adds $4.4 billion above the President’s initial budget request to meet critical missile defense needs; Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to enhance military training and exercises with allies and partner nations to help prioritize United States defense interests in critical regions; Requires the Administration to clarify U.S. strategy and objectives on North Korea, Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq, Russia; Fully funds $8 billion for cyber operations, an increase of $1.7 billion, and fully supports the Department of Defense’s defensive and offensive cyberspace capabilities and strategies; Ensures no detainees from Guantanamo Bay are transferred to U.S. soil; and, Makes major reforms in Pentagon buying practices including e-commerce, defense contract auditing, and increased oversight to service contracts. The FY2018 Conference Report passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 356-70. The report now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. Following the anticipated passage by the U.S. Senate, the FY2018 Conference Report will then go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
11.02.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, in coordination with President Trump and Senate leadership, House Republicans unveiled their pro-growth tax reform proposal aimed at strengthening our economy, bringing back jobs and creating prosperity for all Americans. “For months, the House has been working closely with the Trump Administration and the United States Senate to draft a bold tax reform plan that will bring jobs back from overseas, generate real economic growth and greater paychecks. Our current tax code is exceptionally complex and loaded with special provisions that make it unfair to the vast majority of taxpayers. This proposal is a great first step to making the kind of bold changes necessary to make our tax code much simpler and fairer, all aimed at unleashing unparalleled economic growth and prosperity for every American.” ###
10.26.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the passage of the Senate Amendment to H. Con Res. 71, the FY2018 Budget Resolution: “The adoption of the FY2018 budget resolution is the critical first step to achieve meaningful tax cuts for individuals, families and small businesses. We now have a legislative pathway to create a simple and fair tax code that will bring back American jobs and money from overseas while creating real prosperity for all Americans." ###
10.17.2017	Washington, D.C.— Today, House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) and Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman David Rouzer (NC-07) issued the following comments in response to the Trump administration's decision to withdraw a controversial Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyard Administration (GIPSA) interim final rule and take no further action on a complementary proposed rule released in the final days of the Obama administration: “After nearly a decade of battling partisan and contentious GIPSA reforms, America’s livestock, poultry and packing industries can breathe a sigh of relief. Today’s decision helps restore both Congressional intent and common sense by ensuring American producers have the freedom to market their products without the threat of frivolous lawsuits. I appreciate the Trump administration’s dedication to regulatory reform through the rollback of unnecessary and burdensome regulations like these. I am particularly thankful for Sec. Perdue’s leadership on this effort and look forward to working with him to ensure that other problematic regulations like the organic livestock rule meet the same fate,” said Chairman Conaway. “Excessive regulations with questionable legal backing ultimately lead to a wave of lawsuits and to years of litigation. The withdraw of the GIPSA rule brings years of regulatory uncertainty in our livestock, poultry and packing industries to an end. I applaud the Trump administration, along with Sec. Perdue, for their hard work on behalf of rural America to roll back these cumbersome regulations,” said Subcommittee Chairman David Rouzer. Collectively, the rules would have made it unnecessary for plaintiffs to show general harm to competition when challenging a packer’s decision to offer premiums to producers through established marketing agreements, going well beyond the statutory language, potentially opening the gates to a flurry of lawsuits from disgruntled producers, and ultimately limiting marketing options and consumer choice. ###
10.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer will be hosting a youth leadership conference for high school juniors in the 7th Congressional District on Wednesday, October 18th. The 2017 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference provides two juniors from each high school an opportunity to meet with entrepreneurial leaders, discuss ways to achieve entrepreneurial success and develop the necessary personal and professional skills to achieve goals. This conference is being conducted in coordination with North Carolina State University’s General Hugh Shelton Leadership Center as well as participation of the UNC Wilmington Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. In addition to a lineup of speakers -- including Marsha Prestage of Prestage Farms and Colonel J. Quincy Collins, USAF (retired), former Prisoner of War -- the conference will provide students the opportunity to engage in activities focused on values-based leadership. Every high school in the 7th District was given the opportunity to participate in the 2017 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference. The method and criteria used for selection of these students was up to each respective school. This is the third Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference hosted by Congressman David Rouzer. ###
10.05.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the passage of the FY2018 budget: “For each fiscal year, Congress has an obligation to propose a budget that serves as a blueprint for future spending — one no different in concept than an individual or family budget. The FY2018 budget resolution passed by the House of Representatives today proposes to balance the federal budget over the next 10 years. If these proposals were to be made law, it is projected that the annual deficits we currently run would be reduced by $6.5 trillion. This would be achieved even while increasing national defense spending by more than $70 billion to improve our military readiness in what has become a more and more dangerous world. This budget proposal is also the first step to achieving the long overdue tax reform necessary to bring trillions of dollars and jobs overseas back to America and provide much-needed tax reform and relief for hardworking families and small businesses. I look forward to the U.S. Senate taking up this measure so that we can enact meaningful policy changes that put America first.” ###
10.04.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following passage of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which restricts abortions after the 20-week mark: “Advancements in medical technology prove that at 20 weeks old, the unborn can feel pain. It is our moral obligation to fight for and protect the lives of those who cannot speak for themselves – the lives of those who are no different than our own. I’m proud to stand with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass this vital bill to protect the most vulnerable among us.” ###
09.28.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congressman Rouzer released the following statement on the Republicans’ framework to fix our nation’s broken tax code: “This week, the House, the Senate, and the Trump Administration released a tax reform framework to bring back jobs and money from overseas and create real prosperity for all Americans. This is a tax reform plan focused on simplicity and growth that will lead to significant investments and generate better paying jobs, while also enabling every individual and family to keep more of what they earn. For southeastern North Carolina, this is a first step to enacting into law a tax code that would benefit every individual and family — including our farm families and small businesses — and so simple you would be able to file your tax return on a postcard.” ###
08.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer is hosting a meeting with the elected officials of New Hanover County on Monday, August 7. This is a continuation of his practice of meeting with elected officials that he started during the previous Congress. The goal of these meetings is to provide Congressman Rouzer and local leaders the opportunity to discuss federal issues impacting the area and to ensure an open dialogue on all matters of importance to the citizens of the 7th District. Topics on his agenda to discuss include coastal issues, such as dredging and coastal storm damage reduction, the opioid crisis, tax reform, updates on other legislative items of interest, and any other topic elected officials wish to discuss. Though GenX is on the mind of every elected official, there is no new information for Congressman Rouzer to present that hasn’t already been publicly reported. As typical with meetings involving local, elected leaders, this meeting is invite only. Members of the press are invited to observe the meeting to report on topics discussed should they wish to do so. Details are below: WHAT: Meeting with New Hanover County Elected Officials WHO: Congressman Rouzer, New Hanover county commissioners, mayors and the sheriff will be in attendance for the meeting. Members of the press are invited to observe the meeting to report on what is discussed. WHERE: New Hanover County Government Center, Conference Room 500 WHEN: Monday, August 7th at 1 p.m. ###
07.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman David Rouzer voted to approve an appropriations package to authorize funding for our military, veterans, southern border, and other priorities that will contribute to the safety and security of American citizens at home and abroad. The appropriations package, commonly referred to as the “minibus,” includes appropriations bills for defense, military construction and veterans, energy and water, and the legislative branch. “It’s no secret we live in a world that has grown much more dangerous during the past several years. As a Congress, it is our primary obligation to take the necessary steps to help keep our country and citizens safe from harm. The appropriations package passed by the House of Representatives this week provides our troops with the largest pay raise in eight years, rebuilds and strengthens our military, improves the care of our veterans, bolsters our nuclear weapons programs and fully funds President Trump’s budget request for the construction of a wall at our southern border as well as other border security measures.” The minibus: Fully funds the President’s FY2018 $1.6 billion budget request to build a wall along our southern border; Provides our service members with the largest pay raise in eight years; Increases funding for the Department of Defense in an effort to rebuild and strengthen our military; Pays for updated weapons and equipment so that our troops are better prepared for the ever-evolving threats our nation faces; Increases funding for better care of our veterans; and, Increases funding for the Department of Energy’s nuclear weapons program. ###
07.14.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement following the passage of Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, an authorization bill considered by Congress every year to set funding levels for the military to continue its operations and remain a global leader: “It is the duty of Congress to ensure our military and troops have the necessary funding and resources to defeat terrorism, combat the growing security threats we face in the world and keep our homeland safe. During the past several years, our military has just been getting by – enduring major annual cuts to their budgets as our world becomes a much more dangerous place. Our men and women who serve have been required to do much more with much less, and this has resulted in tough readiness choices that have harmed our national security and our troops. I’m proud to have joined my colleagues in supporting the FY18 NDAA which will boost defense spending by 10% in order to better ensure that our service members have the tools necessary to complete their missions safely and efficiently. Passage of this bill is critical to our military installations across our state, country and around the world.” The FY18 NDAA strengthens our national security by: Providing for U.S. involvement and support for efforts in strategic regions around the world; Fulfilling the request of the Army, Navy and Air Force with thousands of additional personnel; Increasing missile defense funding by $2.5 billion; Modernizing our nuclear weapons stockpile, missile defense, and military vehicles; Supporting defensive and offensive cyberspace strategy; and, Ensuring that no terrorist detainees at Guantanamo Bay are transferred to American soil; The NDAA provides for our troops and their families by: Fully funding a well-deserved pay increase; Blocking misguided attempt to close military medical facilities upon which our deployed troops and their families rely; and, Providing commonsense resources to help families manage challenges like relocations – including reimbursements for spouse’s obtaining licensing/certification in another state. Lastly, the authorization bill reforms the way the Pentagon does business by: Updating the retirement system, improving the military healthcare system and streamlining our military acquisition system so that the Department of Defense conducts business in a cost-effective and transparent manner. ###
06.23.2017	Below is an update from Congressman Rouzer regarding his meeting with a representatives from Chemours: Last week, I asked to meet with Chemours regarding concerns related to GenX. That meeting occurred Tuesday afternoon as soon as I landed in Washington, D.C. for this week’s votes. During the meeting, their Washington representative and I discussed all aspects of the issue, including the concerns we all have and the initial steps the affected counties and the Cape Fear Public Utility Authority have requested the company take. The representative from Chemours informed me of the company’s decision to stop discharging GenX into the Cape Fear River effective the very next day after our meeting, Wednesday, June 21. This is a good first step. He also informed me that they are pursuing measures to address this issue permanently. During the meeting, I reiterated the need for Chemours to be as transparent as possible with the public. It’s absolutely critical for all parties – Chemours, the Environmental Protection Agency, Cape Fear Public Utility Authority, North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, the counties that rely on this water resource, and my office – to continue to have an open dialogue and work together for the best interests of the public. This week, I also received an update from the Environmental Protection Agency regarding the steps they are taking to determine whether or not GenX poses health risks to those of us who drink water from the Cape Fear River. As of Wednesday, the EPA initiated an investigation into Chemours’ compliance with a 2009 consent order issued for the production of GenX. This investigation is focused on determining whether Chemours is in compliance with requirements of the consent order regarding releases to the environment at the Fayetteville facility. EPA is also reviewing additional toxicity data submitted by the company, as required under the consent order, and updating the risk assessment using the additional toxicity data specific to GenX. At the request of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), EPA has agreed to perform independent laboratory analysis for GenX in some of the water samples being collected by NCDEQ at 13 locations in the Cape Fear River over the next three weeks. The state is obtaining these samples this week to be sent to a lab in Colorado especially equipped for this type of testing, which is expected to take several weeks. Please continue to monitor my Facebook page and website (www.rouzer.house.gov) for all information and updates regarding this issue.
06.20.2017	Congressman David Rouzer released the update below following a meeting with Chemours officials: Last week, I asked to meet with Chemours regarding concerns related to GenX. That meeting occurred this afternoon, and their Washington representative and I discussed all aspects of the issue, including the concerns we all have and the initial steps the affected counties and the Cape Fear Public Utility Authority have requested the company take. The representative from Chemours informed me of the company’s decision to stop discharging GenX into the Cape Fear River as of tomorrow, Wednesday, June 21. This is a good first step. He also informed me that they are pursuing measures to address this issue permanently. During the meeting, I reiterated the need for Chemours to be as transparent as possible with the public. It’s absolutely critical for all parties – Chemours, the Environmental Protection Agency, Cape Fear Public Utility Authority, North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality, North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, New Hanover County, Brunswick County and my office -- to continue to have an open dialogue and collaborate on best ways to address this issue long-term as quickly as possible. As you may know, the state is obtaining samples this week to be sent to a lab in Colorado especially equipped for this type of testing. These tests will not yield results for another few weeks. We will continue to share the most up to date information, as we are made aware of it. Please continue to monitor my Facebook page and website (www.rouzer.house.gov) for all information and updates regarding this issue.
06.16.2017	Our office continues to be in contact with officials from New Hanover County, the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NC DEQ) and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to monitor reports of GenX in the Cape Fear River, help ensure that accurate data is obtained and that appropriate measures are taken based on those findings. Below is a bullet point summary of what is known so far and actions that are underway. -The NC DEQ, in consultation with the state Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), is leading a state investigation regarding reports of an unregulated chemical, known as GenX, in the Cape Fear River. -The GenX found in the river is likely the byproduct of a vinyl ether process that has been taking place for 37 years. -The last sample was taken in 2014 showing a presence of GenX. -NC DEQ is strongly encouraging Chemours, the company that produces the chemical at its facility in Fayetteville, to identify any measures that can be taken to reduce or eliminate the discharge of GenX until the state completes its investigation. -A Chemours official told state environmental regulators this week that the company is working to assess waste streams containing GenX and determine whether the company can reduce the amount of GenX discharged to the river. -NC DEQ will begin collecting water samples from the Cape Fear River as early as next week to get better data. -The first test results will likely be available four weeks after samples are received at a lab facility in Colorado, which is capable of detecting GenX in water at low concentrations. Multiple rounds of testing and analysis will be necessary for a meaningful evaluation of the water quality. -Chemours has agreed to pay for this testing. -The EPA is working to establish guidance on unregulated compounds, such as GenX, that North Carolina and other states can use to develop potential regulations for these types of compounds. -DHHS has initiated daily conference calls with local health departments in the lower Cape Fear region in order to share up-to-date information. ###
06.12.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following today’s announcement that the U.S. and China have finalized an agreement allowing for American beef exports, House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) and Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman David Rouzer (NC-07) made the below comments “As one of the world's largest importers of beef, China has long-been an area of great opportunity for the U.S. beef industry. Well today that ‘great opportunity’ becomes a one step closer to reality for cattle producers across the country, hopefully bringing an end to a 13-year drought on beef exports to China. America’s ranchers raise the best and highest quality beef in the world, and I applaud the administration for its work to move this agreement across the finish line,”said Chairman Conaway. “Today’s announced agreement that U.S. beef producers will have access to China’s market, the world’s largest, is a major achievement. The opening of this market is estimated to be worth $2.6 billion for the U.S. beef industry, and I applaud the Trump administration in negotiating this great deal which will benefit our nation’s cattlemen, the agriculture community, and help grow our economy and create more jobs,"said Subcommittee Chairman Rouzer.
06.12.2017	Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below regarding contamination reports of a chemical compound, commercially referred to as "Gen X," in the drinking water system of the Cape Fear Public Utility Authority (CFPUA:) "As many of you have probably read, this chemical is used to make Teflon and is made by Chemours Co. at Fayetteville Works, about 100 miles upstream from Wilmington. My office has been in contact with the EPA in Washington to make sure they are on top of this and to ensure that all the facts are made plain and transparent to the public. We will continue to post updates on Facebook and our website as we learn more." ###
06.08.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer voted in support of H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act of 2017 to end taxpayer-funded bailouts, reduce the size of the government, repeal the most onerous components of Dodd-Frank and cut the deficit by $24 billion over the next 10 years. “For far too long, consumers and small businesses have been forced to comply with costly and burdensome regulations stemming from the Dodd-Frank Act. Under a unified Republican government, Congress is working to reverse the mentality of ‘government knows best’ with policies that will jumpstart our economy, provide much-needed regulatory relief for small, community banks and create more opportunities for consumers, investors and entrepreneurs.” H.R. 10 will: Repeal Dodd-Frank’s authority to conduct taxpayer funded bailouts; Hold Wall Street accountable by imposing enhanced penalties for Wall Street fraud and self-dealing; Increase the maximum criminal fines for individuals and firms that engage in insider trading and other corrupt practices; Reclaim power from the administrative state and give it back to the people and their representatives by subjecting regulators to Congressional appropriations; Require financial regulators to conduct a detailed cost-benefit analysis of all proposed and final regulations; Demand greater accountability and transparency from the Federal Reserve; Restructure the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) by subjecting the agency to Congressional oversight and the normal Congressional appropriations process; Remove Dodd-Frank’s one size fits all regulatory approach; and, Repeal the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule which imposes new costs and limits choices for American investors and retirees. ###
06.02.2017	Today, Rep. David Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald J. Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement: "The citizens of this country deserve policies that put our working men and women first, foster true competition on the global stage and create good-paying American jobs that will jumpstart our economy. Under the provisions of the Paris Agreement, the United States would have carried most of the financial burdens while other countries would have reaped the benefits. It simply isn’t fair for American manufacturers and other businesses to be held to a standard that their competitors in India and China are not. This was a bad deal for America and as promised during his campaign, President Donald Trump is putting American jobs and growth first."
06.01.2017	If you work, you should be better off than if you don't work. That is just common sense, and it is how the overwhelming majority of Americans feel. When it comes to the drug testing of recipients of welfare benefits, the vast majority of citizens in my district want to know that their hard-earned tax dollars are not going to subsidize a drug habit. After all, many are working two and three jobs to make ends meet — and, in many cases are required to pass a drug test as a condition of employment. They have no interest in subsidizing the drug habit of those receiving government assistance; nor should they. That is why I recently introduced a bill, The Drug Testing for Welfare Recipients Act (H.R. 2179), to hold individuals receiving taxpayer-funded assistance to the same standard as many American workers. My bill would amend the Social Security Act by requiring individuals to pass a drug screening process in order to be eligible for Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Public Housing and Section 8 Rental Assistance Programs. The drug screening process would be two-fold and the method of implementation would be up to the discretion of the states. First, states would be required to verify that individuals have not been arrested for a drug related offense within the previous five years. Second, those with a drug related offense would be required to undergo a complete drug test while those without an offense would be required to complete substance abuse screening, as determined by the state, to determine risk of substance abuse. Our welfare programs should never be structured in a way that creates a culture of dependency in any form. Of all the forms of dependency, drug addiction is by far the most damaging to the individual, their family, their community, and our society. Those who struggle with drug addiction need our help and not a blind eye to their problem. Only when a problem is identified and acknowledged can it be solved. Under my bill, the assistance to individuals who fail their drug test would be suspended for one year providing a natural incentive for them to seek the help they need. As elected representatives of the people, we have an obligation to ensure that hard-earned tax dollars are used wisely and that every government program has the right incentives in place. The Drug Testing for Welfare Recipients Act is a common sense step to ensure that those who are paying the nation’s bills are not subsidizing another’s drug habit. After all, there is a fundamental truth that should never be ignored — you get more of what you subsidize. Rep. David Rouzer represents North Carolina’s 7th District. He is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture; Transportation and Infrastructure; and, Natural Resources.
05.19.2017	Congressman Rouzer released the statement below on the recent developments regarding President Donald Trump and Russia: "I fully support President Donald Trump and firmly believe that he is the right person at the right time to save America. No president has done more so early in their administration to protect the moral and spiritual principles upon which this country was founded, nor has any president done more by this point of time in office for the working men and women who make America great. To date there is no evidence of any collusion between the President or his campaign with the Russians, and I do not expect that to change. Congress has an obligation to provide oversight of the executive branch on all matters, and the House and Senate Intelligence Committees take their responsibility seriously to follow the facts wherever they may lead. I have every confidence that the newly appointed special counsel will do the same." ###
05.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced Jocelyn Artman, an 11th grade student of Topsail High School, the winner of the NC-07 Art Competition. Artman’s entry, entitled “Hidden History,” is a depiction of a post-World War II Watch Tower used for missile testing located in Surf City, North Carolina using water color and acrylic paints. Artman’s artwork demonstrated and reflected this year’s Art Competition theme, “What I Love Most About North Carolina.” “It is an honor to announce Topsail High’s Jocelyn Artman as the winner of the 2017 Art Competition,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Jocelyn’s artistic talent is inspiring and she is well-deserving of this once in a lifetime opportunity. Every time I go to the House floor to vote, I will see Jocelyn’s entry which serves as a constant reminder of the impressive talent and creativity fostered throughout North Carolina.” Winners are presented with two round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Artman’s art will be on display for eleven months in the Capitol tunnel which is seen by thousands of visitors from across the country, Congressional staffers and members of Congress. This year’s NC-07 Art Competition theme was, “What I Love About North Carolina.” Jocelyn Artman’s winning entry, “Hidden History.” ###
05.10.2017	Congressman Rouzer released the statement below on President Trump's decision to dismiss FBI Director Comey: “Sometimes difficult circumstances require a fresh start, and I am confident that the President will appoint a new FBI director who will have the trust of the Congress and the American people to lead the FBI in achieving its core missions with great integrity and excellence. I believe Director Comey to be a very honorable man who has led the FBI at a unique time marked by significantly partisan and difficult circumstances. I commend him for his dedicated service to the country." ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the passage of the American Health Care Act: “Today, the House of Representatives acted to reverse seven years of disastrous health care policy by repealing as much of Obamacare as allowable under the rules of Budget Reconciliation. Not only does the American Health Care Act create more choices fostering more competition, it expands the use of health savings accounts, reforms Medicaid by maximizing state flexibility, and protects the most vulnerable by prohibiting insurance companies from denying or rescinding coverage, or increasing premiums, for those with pre-existing conditions. Further, this legislation repeals every tax in Obamacare and makes the most significant entitlement reform in history by putting Medicaid, one of the main drivers of our national debt, on a budget.” Background: Passage of this budget reconciliation bill is the first of three steps to achieving a replacement with the goal of creating more competition and greater access to quality health care. Under this step-by-step approach, the first step is to pass the American Health Care Act repealing the mandates, taxes and spending under Obamacare. The second step is for the Administration, specifically Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, to deregulate the marketplace in order to stabilize it, increase choices and lower costs. The last step in this three-phase plan is to rebuild the health care system by passing conservative-minded bills to allow shopping across state lines, medical liability reform and more. These items are not included in the AHCA because they are outside the parameters of the rules of budget reconciliation and therefore require 60 votes for passage in the Senate. ###
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer is now accepting submissions for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. All high school students who are residents of the 7th Congressional District are encouraged to participate. The winning entry will be displayed in the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. “This year’s art competition is an opportunity for students to creatively express what they love most about our beloved Tarheel State. The winning artist from the 7thDistrict will have their artwork on display for eleven months in the Capitol tunnel, which is seen by thousands of visitors from across the country, Congressional staffers and members of Congress. Every time I go to the House floor to vote, I walk through this tunnel which serves as a constant reminder of the impressive talent and creativity of high school students throughout North Carolina and across the country.” High school students from across the 7th Congressional District are invited to enter their best artwork reflecting the theme, “What I Love About North Carolina.” Students wishing to participate in this year’s art competition are asked to submit their artwork to Congressman Rouzer’s district office in Four Oaks, Bolivia or Wilmington by Friday, April 28, 2017. Each student will be allowed to submit up to two (2) entries. Winners are presented with two round trip tickets, courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners. Guidelines for the 2017 artwork: Artwork must be two-dimensional; Each piece must be no larger than 26”x26”x4” - including the frame; Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs; and, Work entered must be in the original. Acceptable mediums for submissions: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor etc.; Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers; Collage; Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints; Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc.; Computer generated art; and, Photography. The deadline for students to submit their artwork is Friday, April 28th. Students interested in participating in the competition are encouraged to contact Anna Young in my Wilmington office at (910) 395-0202. ###
03.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC) re-introduced a bill to designate and recognize the city of Wilmington as the first nationally recognized “American World War II City.” H.R. 1721 establishes a process to allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to designate at least one city in the United States each year with this illustrious title. These cities will be designated due to their significant contributions to the war effort and their work preserving the history of WWII. This is a major step in encouraging the preservation of our national heritage so that structures, artifacts, museums and veterans are properly and safely persevered. If passed by Congress and signed into law, the city of Wilmington would be the first “American World War II City.” Due to the hard work and dedication of Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., USNR (Ret.) – a Wilmington native, distinguished author and active veteran in the community – this idea and introduction of this bill came to fruition due to Jones’ years of dedication to this cause. “I would like to thank Captain Wilbur Jones for all his hard work to award Wilmington with the recognition it deserves,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “The city of Wilmington was regarded as the defense capital of the state during World War II with major industries supporting the war’s efforts – including shipbuilding, fertilizer plants, agriculture, manufacturing and clothing factories. Due to its major contributions, this bill will ensure that Wilmington, as well as other cities with significant WWII history, will be given the distinction the residents and communities deserve.” Last year, H.R. 1721 passed the House of Representatives via H.R. 677, the American Heroes COLA Act of 2015, which provides for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year. The legislation was not passed in the U.S. Senate however. Those bills that did not become law during the 114th Congress must be reintroduced in the 115th Congress to be considered again. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the decision to pull the American Health Care Act from the House floor: “Today, the House of Representatives fell short of finding 216 votes necessary to repeal and replace as much of Obamacare as allowable under the rules of Budget Reconciliation. It’s my hope that House and Senate Republicans will eventually be able to unite behind a repeal and replacement plan. Only then will we be able to steer the country clear of the growing disaster that Obamacare is.”
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee Chairman David Rouzer held a public hearing entitled, “The Next Farm Bill: Livestock Producer Perspectives.” This hearing continues the series of House Agriculture Committee hearings that set the stage for the next farm bill. This hearing provided representatives from four of the major livestock producer groups the opportunity to discuss their experiences with current programs, challenges facing the industry and priorities for the upcoming farm bill. “From onerous federal rules and regulations to cattle fever ticks to foot-and-mouth disease, it’s no secret our nation’s livestock producers are facing numerous, serious challenges,” said David Rouzer, Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture. “As we gear up for the FY2018 Farm Bill, it is vital to hear firsthand how all of these issues impact the operations and production of our livestock and which USDA programs and initiatives are helpful in mitigating these harmful impacts so that we can make the necessary modifications to the FY2018 Farm Bill to alleviate some of the challenges our farm families and communities face.” During the hearing, witnesses discussed the catastrophic economic loss our producers would face in the event of a major viral outbreak, such as Foot-and-Mouth disease and avian influenza. Witnesses also expressed significant financial challenges as a result of the USDA’s advancement of three flawed rules, commonly referred to as the GIPSA rules. Among the four witnesses testifying at the hearing was Mr. David Herring, Vice President of National Pork Producers Council, of Newton Grove, North Carolina. Other witnesses include: Mr. Craig Uden, President of the National Cattlemen’s Beef Association; Mr. Carl Wittenburg, Chairman of the National Turkey Federation; and, Mr. Bob Buchholz, Region V Executive Board Representatives from the American Sheep Industry Association. ###
03.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer will be hosting a youth leadership conference for high school juniors in the 7th Congressional District on Friday, March 24, 2017. The 2017 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference provides two juniors from each high school an opportunity to meet with entrepreneurial leaders, discuss ways to achieve entrepreneurial success and develop the necessary personal and professional skills to achieve goals. This conference is being conducted in coordination with the BB&T Leadership Institute as well as participation by the UNC Wilmington Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. There will be a lineup of speakers and engaging activities focused on values-based leadership and the personal traits and qualities that lead to lasting success. Every high school in the 7th District was given the opportunity to participate in 2017 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference. The method and criteria used for selection of these students was up to each respective school. This is the second Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference hosted by Congressman David Rouzer. NC-07 YOUTH LEADERSHIP AND ENTREPRENEURIAL CONFERENCE WHAT: Congressman David Rouzer hosts second NC-07 Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference. WHO: Selected juniors from each high school in the 7th District and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Sampson County Agri-Exposition Center, 414 Warsaw Rd., Clinton, NC 28328, in Prestage Hall, Salons A and B (on the side of the building away from McDonald’s Restaurant. WHEN: March 24, 2017 from 9 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Members of the press wishing to attend and speak with Congressman Rouzer during the event are asked to email Danielle Adams (Danielle.adams@mail.house.gov) to coordinate logistics for arranging an interview with Congressman David Rouzer during the conference. **Due to the potential of late night votes on Thursday evening, the Congressman’s arrival and attendance at the 2017 Youth Leadership Conference is subject to change.** ###
03.17.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer introduced H.R. 1510, the States’ Education Reclamation Act of 2017, which would return taxpayer dollars used to fund the federal education bureaucracy back to the respective states in order to increase teacher salaries or to be used for any other purpose that a respective state chooses to enhance education. H.R. 1510 proposes a responsible dismantle of the Department of Education by reallocating its billions in funding to be proportionally distributed to the respective states to be used for any education purpose as they see fit, such as teacher pay raises, new school construction, investment in technology and more. Taxpayer dollars provided to the Department of Education from each state would be returned to the states in the form of grants. The Department of Education was created in the early 1980s with the intention of reversing stagnating education performance amongst Americans. Since 1980, the Department’s budget has ballooned from $14 billion to approximately $87 billion while failing to vastly improve students’ performance in math, science and reading. Meanwhile, the Department expends large amounts of money on its own maintenance and overhead – paying its general services employees an average of $109,924 per year. In comparison, teachers in North Carolina take home an average salary of $47,931. “Given the challenges and special needs that all teachers and school administrators continually face, we can get far more out of the tax dollars currently being spent on education by dismantling this billion dollar federal agency and returning those resources back to the states,” said Rep. David Rouzer. H.R. 1510 also takes into account the importance of, and the need for, certain Department programs, such as the job training program, special education grant program, Federal Pell Grant program, and federal student loan programs. Under this bill, those entities would remain intact, but transferred to other government agencies. ###
03.10.2017	Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below regarding the GOP healthcare proposal: “The GOP healthcare repeal and replacement is a work in progress that will be modified multiple times before passing the House and the Senate. This budget reconciliation bill is the first of three steps to achieving a replacement with the goal of creating more competition and greater access to quality health care. I remain cautiously optimistic that Congress will ultimately come together and pass a reconciliation bill that promotes employment and fiscal restraint.” ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer will be hosting a townhall on Monday, March 6th to hear constituent concerns and discuss the priorities of the 115th Congress. All citizens and press of the 7th District are invited to attend. Details are below: WHAT: 7th District Townhall WHEN: Monday, March 6, 2017 from 2 p.m. – 4 p.m. WHERE: Brunswick Community College, Odell Williamson Auditorium, 150 College Road NE, Bolivia, North Carolina 28422 WHO: 7th District citizens and members of the press are invited to attend Constituents will have the opportunity to ask Congressman Rouzer questions on legislation, current events and potential casework. Members of the press wishing to attend must RSVP to Danielle Adams at Danielle.adams@mail.house.gov by Monday, March 6th at Noon. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald J. Trump’s first address to the United States Congress: “President Trump laid out a bold, optimistic vision to get our economy moving and bring jobs back to America by reforming our tax code, investing in our infrastructure, securing our borders, and rolling back harmful regulations stifling small businesses. Under President Trump’s leadership, we are working to repeal Obamacare and replace it with patient-centered solutions, rebuild our military and regain our influence on the world stage. I look forward to working with my colleagues to help implement this ambitious agenda, which will enable America to be much more prosperous at home and even stronger abroad." ###
02.28.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the appointment of Ray Starling as Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade and Food Assistance: “Congratulations to my good friend, Ray Starling, on his appointment to serve as the Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture, Trade, and Food Aid,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I’ve known Ray for many years and have had the pleasure of working with him on a wide range of issues important to farm families and rural communities all across this country. He will be an exceptional contributor to the advancement of common sense policies benefiting all Americans. The President and his team could not have made a better choice." ###
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives used the Congressional Review Act to initiate the repeal of several job-killing regulations put in place by the Obama Administration in the final 60 days of his presidency. Repealing these regulations will make way for tens of thousands of new energy jobs, prevent expensive compliance costs for American businesses and provide citizens with more protections under their 2nd Amendment rights. “This week, the House of Representatives took action to get rid of some of the most harmful regulations pushed through by the Obama Administration in the final days of the presidency,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Federal rules and regulations are estimated to cost American citizens and businesses nearly $2 trillion per year. While there is still much more work to be done, I will continue to focus my efforts on repealing the onerous rules and regulations harming job creation. With a president willing to sign these bills into law, we will work to drain the Washington bureaucracy by changing the regulatory structure and targeting specific rules to repeal. I’m pleased to join my colleagues this week in reversing regulations estimated to destroy tens of thousands of jobs, put American businesses at a severe competitive disadvantage and violate our constitutionally protected liberties.” The regulations repealed by the House of Representatives with the support of Rep. David Rouzer, include: the Department of Interior’s stream protection rule. Reverses a rule estimated to destroy one-third of our nation’s coal mining jobs and put up to 64% of our country’s coal reserves off limits. the Bureau of Land Management’s venting and flaring rule. The intended purpose is to regulate emissions from production on federal lands; however, industry is already subject to Clean Air Act standards through the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This duplicative and costly rule has made it impossible for producers to develop resources on federal lands – reducing tens of thousands of jobs and forcing smaller operations in the oil and natural gas industry to shut down. the SEC’s Resource Extraction rule. This rule targets publically-traded American energy companies by requiring those engaged in commercial development of natural gas, minerals or oil to disclose proprietary information that can be used by their global competitors. The SEC estimates this rule will add roughly $1 billion in costs to the energy industry. the Social Security Administration NICS rule. This rule infringes on the Second Amendment rights of disabled Americans attempting to purchase firearms when they have a designated payee for their benefits. This rule is estimated to impact nearly 4.2 million, law-abiding Americans wishing to exercise their Second Amendment rights. ###
02.01.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following President Donald J. Trump’s nomination of Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court: “President Donald J. Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch for the United States Supreme Court is a great choice. Justice Gorsuch has a tremendous track record on the bench. His strong academic credentials, brilliant legal mind and demonstrated commitment to adhering to the Constitution make him an outstanding nominee. I look forward to his confirmation by the U.S. Senate. ###
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer issued the following statement today in response to President Donald J. Trump’s executive actions to prohibit individuals, except for those with green cards, traveling from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen from entering the United States for 90 days while also putting a hold on the refugee admission program for 120 days so that the Administration has time to strengthen screening procedures: “I find it refreshing and encouraging that our new administration is taking extra steps to better ensure the safety of all Americans, just as President Trump promised during the campaign that he would. I agree with every word of President Trump’s statement yesterday, which clarifies the scope and intentions behind these temporary policy changes.” The full statement President Trump released yesterday is below: “America is a proud nation of immigrants and we will continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do so while protecting our own citizens and border. America has always been the land of the free and home of the brave. We will keep it free and keep it safe, as the media knows, but refuses to say. My policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011 when he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months. The seven countries named in the Executive Order are the same countries previously identified by the Obama administration as sources of terror. To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion — this is about terror and keeping our country safe. There are over 40 different countries worldwide that are majority Muslim that are not affected by this order. We will again be issuing visas to all countries once we are sure we have reviewed and implemented the most secure policies over the next 90 days. I have tremendous feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian crisis in Syria. My first priority will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all those who are suffering.” For more information on what President Trump’s executive order does, please click here. ###
01.30.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer issued the following statement today in response to President Donald J. Trump’s executive actions to prohibit individuals, except for those with green cards, traveling from Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen from entering the United States for 90 days while also putting a hold on the refugee admission program for 120 days so that the Administration has time to strengthen screening procedures: “I find it refreshing and encouraging that our new administration is taking extra steps to better ensure the safety of all Americans, just as President Trump promised during the campaign that he would. I agree with every word of President Trump’s statement yesterday, which clarifies the scope and intentions behind these temporary policy changes.” The full statement President Trump released yesterday is below: “America is a proud nation of immigrants and we will continue to show compassion to those fleeing oppression, but we will do so while protecting our own citizens and border. America has always been the land of the free and home of the brave. We will keep it free and keep it safe, as the media knows, but refuses to say. My policy is similar to what President Obama did in 2011 when he banned visas for refugees from Iraq for six months. The seven countries named in the Executive Order are the same countries previously identified by the Obama administration as sources of terror. To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting. This is not about religion — this is about terror and keeping our country safe. There are over 40 different countries worldwide that are majority Muslim that are not affected by this order. We will again be issuing visas to all countries once we are sure we have reviewed and implemented the most secure policies over the next 90 days. I have tremendous feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian crisis in Syria. My first priority will always be to protect and serve our country, but as President I will find ways to help all those who are suffering.” For more information on what President Trump’s executive order does, please click here. ###
01.25.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman David Rouzer introduced the Stop EPA Overregulation of Rural Americans Act (H.R. 694) to reverse a detrimental regulation, introduced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), establishing costly federal standards for the manufacture of residential wood heaters. This onerous rule will result in substantial production costs effectively driving manufacturers out of the market at a time when demand for wood heaters is increasing. H.R. 694 seeks to protect consumers, rural residents and small businesses from rising energy costs stemming from this unnecessary regulation. “Our nation’s businesses cannot continue to compete and grow while being saddled with new regulations,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “More importantly, the federal government has no business interfering with how wood heaters are made — much less putting in place new regulations that would effectively price them out of the market. As we head into the winter months, more and more families are using wood heaters to help lower their energy costs during these tough economic times. I urge my colleagues to support this common-sense bill to protect American individuals, families and businesses from yet another burdensome federal regulation.” Congressman Rouzer introduced H.R. 694 in the 114th Congress, which passed the House of Representatives by way of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. ###
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer issued the following statement today in response to President Donald J. Trump’s executive actions to advance two pipeline projects, freeze federal hiring, insist on better trade agreements and ensure American taxpayers are not forced to subsidize abortions anywhere in the world: “President Trump is doing what I knew he would,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “He is wasting no time in getting down to business and acting on his promises to Make America Great Again. Already, President Trump has made it clear that he will put America first by clearing the path for approval of the Keystone XL Pipeline and the Dakota Access Pipeline, both of which will create good paying jobs, increase our access to affordable energy and make America an even more dominate energy supplier for the world. By instituting a federal hiring freeze, the President has taken the first step to draining the swamp of the Washington bureaucracy. By withdrawing from the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement and announcing that he will pursue bilateral trade deals with those specific countries instead, he is assuring the American people that he is putting the interests of American workers first. Further, he has affirmed his commitment to the unborn by prohibiting non-government organizations that receive taxpayer funds from performing or actively promoting abortions. All of these executive actions are great for America. I look forward to working with the Trump Administration on the legislative items that we must pass to help create an environment where every citizen can develop and grow their skills and prosper in every way.” ###
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman David Rouzer was appointed to serve on the House Committee on Natural Resources. “Our natural resources are a major attribute to the quality of life in our state and throughout the nation,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “North Carolina is home to many national parks and forests, and our beaches and waterways are precious resources, as well. It is an honor to have the opportunity to represent North Carolina on this important committee, and I look forward to advocating for Southeastern North Carolina in this additional capacity.” The House Committee on Natural Resources considers legislation regarding American energy production, mineral lands and mining, fisheries and wildlife, public lands, oceans, Native Americans, irrigation and reclamation. This appointment is in addition to retaining his committee assignments on the House Committee on Agriculture and House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. ###
01.04.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below after being sworn-in to serve the citizens of the 7th District into the 115th Congress: “It’s an honor to serve the great people of North Carolina’s 7th District. With a unified government, we have a rare and historic opportunity to achieve much for the American people. My focus remains on working to repeal Obamacare and the many other rules and regulations harming our economy and job creation. I will also continue to be a strong voice for our military, our veterans, farm families, and coastal communities. I look forward to building upon our successes this past Congress and working with President-Elect Trump to Make America Great Again.” Some highlights from Congressman Rouzer’s first term serving in the 114th Congress include: Having three bills and an amendment pass the House of Representatives, two of which were passed by the Senate and signed into law by the President. The three bills include: H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act; H.R. 5883, to modernize and clarify the Packers and Stockyards Act; H.R. 5015, the Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act. (During the past 22 years, less than 8% of freshmen members have had at least two bills signed into law.) Co-founding the Primary Care Caucus to focus on access to quality healthcare in rural areas Co-founding the Coastal Caucus to build stronger support for beach and waterway needs Making more than 400,000 constituent contacts Pushing back against unnecessary and burdensome regulations issued by the executive branch impacting our economy, farm families and coastal communities Getting language included in the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act which authorizes and makes top priority funding for specific U.S. Army Corps of Engineers activities for those coastal projects in the 7th District that require reauthorization. This infrastructure bill also included language to address safety and maintenance concerns at Southport Marina. Meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to discuss the Iran Deal, its impacts on Israel, the United States and her allies Hosting townhalls, a Disaster Preparedness Forum, Senior Resource Fairs, a Youth Leadership Conference, and numerous “Coffees with your Congressman” to provide legislative updates and hear constituent concerns Hosting Hurricane Matthew roundtables to hear firsthand from local officials, farmers and emergency responders. These meetings were helpful in securing the $334 million included in the Continuing Resolution to help North Carolina families, our coastal communities and farmers begin recovering from the devastating storm. ###
12.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Last week, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed a comprehensive water resources infrastructure legislation, the Water Infrastructure Improvements Act for the Nation (WIIN) Act. This legislation includes the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 which passed the House of Representatives in September and includes language to authorize and make top priority specific U.S. Army Corps of Engineers activities for Wrightsville Beach and Carolina Beach. Additional language was included to address safety and maintenance concerns at Southport Marina. “Our ports, beaches and waterways are the lifeline of economic activity and job growth for our coastal communities. Passing meaningful legislation to support and continue the authorization of funding to address the unique needs we have on the coast is absolutely vital. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am very pleased that this bill includes provisions addressing immediate needs at Wrightsville Beach, Carolina Beach and Southport Marina. The passage of the WIIN Act is critical to Southeastern North Carolina and our nation, and I look forward to the President signing this important infrastructure bill into law.” The WIIN Act requires the Army Corps of Engineers to prioritize the needs of area beaches, including a three-year extension of coastal storm damage reduction funding for Carolina Beach, and requires the Army Corps of Engineers and U.S. Coast Guard to work with state and local officials to establish a no wake zone for recreational vessels on the Intracoastal Waterway at the Southport Marina. In addition to addressing the needs of North Carolina coasts, the WIIN Act authorizes much-needed investments in our infrastructure systems, supports the maritime and waterway transportation systems and provides for flood protection for homes and businesses. The WIIN Act is a result of bicameral negotiations. The bill was passed by the U.S. Senate on Friday and now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
12.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed the FY 2017 Continuing Resolution to continue government operations, maintain funding at the current budget cap level and provide vital disaster relief to families and communities impacted by recent flooding – including disaster aid to assist North Carolinians in the aftermath of Hurricane Matthew. “Since Hurricane Matthew hit our state in the beginning of October, I have been on the ground meeting with local elected leaders, business owners and our farm communities to help craft a legislative package that is responsive to the immediate needs of individuals, families and communities affected,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “The $334 million in disaster relief for North Carolina is a vital first step in helping North Carolina families and farmers recover from the devastating storm. I will continue to advocate for more disaster relief funding and work with our state and local communities to help our fellow citizens, many of whom are in the 7th Congressional district, recover from Hurricane Matthew.” Included in the $334 million designated for North Carolina are: $193 million for the Community Development Block Grant – Disaster Recovery program to provide flexible grants to rebuild affected areas and provide critical seed money to start the recovery process; $23 million for the Federal Highway Administration to rebuild and maintain damaged portions of the highway; $27.5 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture Emergency Conservation Program to help farmers repair damage to farmlands; $6 million for Emergency Watershed Protection Program to conserve natural resources by relieving hazards to life and property caused by floods; and, $83 million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to build and maintain damaged infrastructure. ###
12.06.2016	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed a bill authored by Congressman David Rouzer yesterday to provide every veteran who has had their severance payments wrongfully taxed the opportunity to recover the payment in full. H.R. 5015, the Combat-Injured Veterans Tax Fairness Act of 2016, is estimated to impact nearly 14,000 veterans - including more than 550 veterans from North Carolina – who were wrongfully taxed on their severance packages. Under federal law, veterans who suffer combat-related injuries and who are separated from the military are not supposed to have any taxes withheld from their one-time lump sum disability severance payment, which they receive from the Department of Defense (DoD.) However, due to an accounting error, that was not the case for an estimated 14,000 veterans. H.R. 5015 corrects this problem by instructing the DoD to identify those who were wrongfully taxed so that they can be reimbursed. “Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines risk their lives every day to protect our freedoms, our values and our republic. The revelation that there are thousands of veterans who did not receive their full disability severance pay is unacceptable. This legislation is a common-sense solution to ensure that these veterans who had their severance payment wrongfully taxed will receive every penny that they are rightfully owed. These veterans deserve no less for their service and sacrifice to our nation,” said Congressman Rouzer. This problem was originally identified by the National Veterans Legal Services Program (NVLSP), an independent, nonprofit veterans service organization that has served active duty military personnel and veterans since 1980. NVLSP estimates that nearly 14,000 veterans have been denied full severance pay as a result of wrongful taxation, including more than 500 veterans in North Carolina. BACKGROUND ON THE NEED FOR THE LEGISLATION:? One-time lump sum disability severance payments to active duty service members have been excluded from taxable income since a 1991 court ruling. This exclusion has been codified into the Department of Defense’s Financial Management Regulation, and also clarified in regulations used by the service branches. Due to limitations in its accounting system, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) knowingly took “tax payments” from combat disabled service members. To recoup wrongfully withheld funds, veterans could have filed an amended tax return with the Internal Revenue Service, but most had no idea that their payment had been erroneously taxed. As a result, thousands of veterans affected are outside of the three-year period in which they can file an amended tax return to recoup this money. Only legislation passed by Congress and signed into law by the President can correct this injustice. ###
12.02.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement upon the passage of the Conference Report for Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act, an authorization bill considered by Congress every year to set funding levels for the military to continue its operations and remain a global leader: “The NDAA conference report passed today ensures our military and service members have the necessary resources to provide for our defense, increase our influence around the world and combat the most immediate threats to our homeland. The final version of the NDAA provides our troops with a much-needed pay raise, boosts troop numbers and increases our military readiness while making reforms to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the Department of Defense. This package is critical to military installations in North Carolina and our national defense, and I look forward to the president signing it into law.” The NDAA 2017 Conference Report is the result of months of negotiations between the United States Senate and House of Representatives. ###
10.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC), Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, joined Congressman Jim Costa (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture, today in expressing disappointment following the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s advancement of three flawed rules, commonly referred to as the GIPSA rules. “Many farmers, ranchers and producers across rural America are facing significant financial challenges,” said Rep. David Rouzer, Chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture. “Despite these hardships, the USDA chose to ignore the will of Congress and the input of our agriculture community. These disastrous rules will result in a flood of litigation, a disruption to the established marketing system for cattle, pork and poultry, and millions of dollars in unanticipated costs.” “The advancement of these proposed GIPSA rules goes completely against the will of Congress, which has expressly prevented the USDA from finalizing these rules that go well beyond the intent of the 2008 Farm Bill,” said Rep. Jim Costa, Ranking Member of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on Livestock and Foreign Agriculture. “These proposed rules and interim final rule will negatively impact how cattle, poultry, and pork are marketed and will thus unduly harm America’s livestock producers. During a time that farmers around the country are suffering from depressed commodity prices we – Congress and the USDA – should be doing everything we can to support those who work every day to put the highest quality and healthiest food and fiber on our dinner tables every night.” Originally proposed in 2010, Congress blocked these GIPSA regulations for over five years. However, despite formally barring the implementation of these regulations on multiple occasions, the USDA acted unilaterally to circumvent Congress and proceed with the flawed rules. Of the three rules, the injury to competition measure poses the most harm to the agriculture community. This provision relieves plaintiffs from having to prove competitive injury to claim a violation of the Packers and Stockyards Act, further burdening the United States livestock industry by opening the door to a horde of harassing lawsuits. Despite Congress and the livestock sector sharing opposition to this particular regulation with Secretary Thomas Vilsack, the USDA issued this measure as an interim final rule - essentially making it the law of the land. ###
10.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Rouzer sent an enewsletter update to residents in the 7th District this week urging them to prepare for Hurricane Matthew, as well as providing hurricane preparedness tips as the storm nears. “I have been in contact with our state and local emergency managers this week and continue to receive updates regarding preparedness efforts and impacts from the impending Hurricane Matthew,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Our four offices in Bolivia, Wilmington, Smithfield and Washington, D.C. stand ready to assist you. I encourage those near our coasts to stay informed and continue to monitor the hurricane. Meanwhile, any residents with questions or non-life threatening issues are encouraged to contact our office so we can help.” While recent forecasts indicate Hurricane Matthew’s eye may veer east avoiding landfall in North Carolina, impacts are expected to be felt far from the center of the storm. Residents and visitors in the southeastern part of the state can expect winds of 45 to 55 miles per hour beginning late Saturday morning, with some higher gusts possible. Heavy rainfall of eight to 10 inches is expected in southeastern counties with one to three inches of rain expected along the I-95 corridor. In his enewsletter, Rep. David Rouzer encouraged residents, especially near our coasts, to take the following precautions while preparing for Matthew: Before the storm – Make a kit of emergency supplies for basic survival – including several days worth of food, water, clean air and life-sustaining items such as prescriptions; Make a plan for what you and your family will do in an emergency – map out your route and don’t forget your pets and livestock; Board up windows and doors, secure loose items in your yards or bring them inside; Move your furniture away from doors and windows. Take photographs of your items should you have to file damage claims after the storm; Fill your car with gasoline and pull out some cash in case banks and ATMs are temporarily closed; Have plywood, nails and screws ready to cover windows and protect your home; Trim trees and shrubs around your home; Close storm shutters; Turn off propane; and, Obey evacuation orders. During the storm -- Do not run water during lighting storms or enter flooded areas or touch electrical equipment if the ground may be wet; If you’ve lost power for more than a few hours, turn off your range, toaster oven, iron and other items to ensure optimal safety for whenever power is restored; Turn off air conditions and water heaters to prevent system overloads; Make sure your generator is grounded; Stay indoors and away from windows and glass doors; and, Pay attention to public announcements to ensure drinking water isn’t contaminated. After the storm -- Continue to monitor the NOAA Weather Radio or local radio or TV stations for any updates on the storm; If you are in need of food, water, clothing, cleaning supplies of minor medical care, please contact the American Red Cross; Inspect your home for damage – take photographs of damage for future claims; Discard any food or water that came into contact with flood water to avoid contamination; Avoid flooded roads and washed out bridges; and, Check in with family and neighbors to alert them that you are safe from harm. For updates on Hurricane Matthew, residents are encouraged to download the free ReadyNC or FEMA mobile applications for real-time weather updates, traffic and flood conditions, shelter openings and evacuation listings. It also includes information about what to include in emergency kits and where to report power outages in North Carolina. The FEMA mobile app provides National Weather Service alerts, safety reminders, locations of shelters and where to talk to FEMA in person. Users can also upload and share disaster photos to help first responders. Both mobile apps will provide further information about disaster recovery assistance should it be implemented after the storm passes. Those experiencing life-threatening emergencies should call 9-1-1. Those wishing to contact Congressman Rouzer’s offices may reach the Bolivia office at (910) 253-6111; the Wilmington office at (910) 395-0202; the Smithfield office at (919) 938-3040 and the Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-2731. For more information about how to get ready for a hurricane and what to do during or after a storm, go to ReadyNC.org. Follow N.C. Emergency Management on Twitter and Facebook for the latest on Hurricane Matthew. ###
09.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 which addresses the needs of America’s harbors, locks, dams, provides for flood protection and other water resources infrastructure by authorizing specific U.S. Army Corps of Engineers activities. WRDA 2016 is a fully offset bill that enables Congress to have much stronger and more consistent oversight of infrastructure policy and implementation. “For far too long, our infrastructure needs have been neglected. Our ports, beaches and waterways are the lifeline of economic activity and job growth in our coastal communities. As a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, I am very pleased that this bill includes provisions to address the unique needs we have on the coast. The passage of WRDA is critical to Southeastern North Carolina and our nation, and I look forward to the President signing this very important infrastructure bill into law.” The Water Resources Development Act authorizes much-needed investment into our infrastructure systems, supports the maritime and waterway transportation systems and provides for flood protection for homes and businesses. Specifically, the bill requires the Army Corps of Engineers to prioritize the needs of area beaches, includes a three year extension of coastal storm damage reduction funding for Carolina Beach, and requires a no wake zone on the Intracoastal Waterway at the Southport Marina. The Senate has already passed its version of this bill so the next step will be to go to a Conference Committee where differences between the two chambers will be worked out. Once a report is issued by the Conference Committee and approved in both the House and Senate, the bill will go to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
09.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC) announced the deadline of Monday, October 31st for eligible applicants in North Carolina’s 7th Congressional District wishing to apply for a nomination to a United States Service Academy for the 2017 academic year. “It’s an honor to nominate some of the best and brightest students of Southeastern North Carolina to attend a United States Service Academy where they will receive a first-rate undergraduate education and have the opportunity to give back to our nation by serving on active duty as a military officer. I encourage all students in the 7th Congressional District who are interested in this opportunity to submit an application to my office by October 31st to be considered for a nomination.” The deadline to submit an application to be considered for a Service Academy nomination is Monday, October 31st. Congressman Rouzer may nominate up to ten individuals for each vacant academy slot allotted to the 7th Congressional District. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointments to four of the five U.S. Service Academies, including the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Students wishing to attend a U.S. Service Academy are encouraged to apply for a nomination. For more information, please visit the Military Academy Nominations page on the Congressman’s website. Any candidate with questions regarding the application process or deadline are encouraged to contact Carol Armstrong in the Smithfield office at (919) 938-3040 or carol.armstrong@mail.house.gov ###
09.26.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman David Rouzer’s bill (H.R. 5883) to modernize and clarify the Packers and Stockyards Act as it relates to the buying or selling of livestock in commerce through online, video and other electronic methods. H.R. 5883 updates the requirements and method of transactions producers must follow – specifically by providing for the same protections for those who sell through online and video auctions and permitting the use of modern electronic payment methods. "The Packers and Stockyards Act was written almost 100 years ago and is in need of modernization,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “This clarification is a reflection of changes in the marketplace as a result of modern technologies. This legislation will help ensure that our producers receive the law's financial protections regardless of whether they sell products at a fixed-facility market or through an online or video auction." “I applaud Rep. Rouzer for his great work in putting forth a common-sense bill to modernize provisions in the Packers and Stockyards Act,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway. “With the increase of livestock sales online and through video auction, this change ensures that these individuals receive the same protections as are provided to those who buy and sell at fixed-facilities.” To read the text of H.R. 5883, please click here. ###
09.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House Committee on Agriculture passed Congressman David Rouzer’s bill (H.R. 5883) to modernize and clarify the Packers & Stockyards Act as it relates to the buying or selling of livestock in commerce through online, video and other electronic methods. H.R. 5883 updates the requirements and method of transactions producers must follow – specifically by providing for the same protections for those who sell through online and video auctions and permitting the use of modern electronic payment methods. "The Packers and Stockyards Act was written almost 100 years ago and is in need of modernization,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “This clarification is a reflection of changes in the marketplace as a result of modern technologies. This legislation will help ensure that our producers receive the law's financial protections regardless of whether they sell products at a fixed-facility market or through an online or video auction." “I applaud Rep. Rouzer for his great work in putting forth a common-sense bill to modernize provisions in the Packers and Stockyards Act,” said House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway. “With the increase of livestock sales online and through video auction, this change ensures that these individuals receive the same protections as are provided to those who buy and sell at fixed-facilities.” To read the text of H.R. 5883, please click here. ###
08.22.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) today announced that he will be joining the entire North Carolina Congressional delegation to co-host the 2016 North Carolina Business & Economic Development Summit. The summit seeks to advance legislative policies to increase business growth and create more good-paying jobs. The summit will take place on Monday, September 12th and Tuesday, September 13th in Washington, D.C. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy with nearly half of North Carolina’s workers employed by them. This conference is an opportunity for our chambers of commerce and local business leaders to hear from key individuals throughout the federal government, network with other business leaders throughout the state, and exchange ideas. I look forward to co-hosting this year’s Business & Economic Development Summit.” The North Carolina Business and Economic Development Summit is an annual event and takes place on the campus of the U.S. Capitol. The 2016 schedule is still being finalized but attendees can expect to hear from guest speakers including members of the North Carolina House and Senate delegation. Businesses interested in attending can find information here. Businesses wishing to register and attend can do so here. ###
08.08.2016	The way things are now, the American people feel like their voices aren’t being heard. In many respects it is because of the vast number of new rules and regulations that this administration has put in place which have the effect of law, but Congress has no vote on. Yet these rules and regulations affect almost every aspect of lives. This is not representative government, and it needs to change. Earlier this summer, House Republicans unveiled a comprehensive policy platform, entitled “A Better Way.” “A Better Way” is a choice for our future — a bold, forward-looking agenda that uses ideas from around the country to tackle some of the biggest challenges of our time: jobs and economic growth, health care; tax reform; national security; poverty; and restoring the Constitution. House Republicans want to restore a Confident America and get us back on track. Over the next several weeks and months, we’ll be working with you – the American people – in towns and cities all across America, to share our vision for a Confident America. To discuss this and other issues of concern, I’m inviting you to join me at any one of our “coffees” across the district. Please find the event details below for the coffee in your area: "Coffee With Congressman Rouzer"
08.02.2016	e giving by providing a real tax incentive; Helping families plan for retirement by reforming savings provisions; Stopping the over-taxation of “Made in America” products; and, Repealing the death tax so that the loss of a family member doesn’t mean the federal government also gets to essentially steal your inheritance. “A Better Way for Tax Reform” makes it easier to create jobs, raise wages and expand opportunities for all Americans by: Cutting taxes on all small businesses by creating a separate, low tax rate of 25%; Allowing families and individuals to deduct 50% of the dividends, capital gains and interest received from stocks and mutual funds; Lowering the corporate tax rate from 35%, the highest in the industrialized world, to 20%; and, Eliminating the death tax. “A Better Way for Tax Reform” requires a simpler, fairer IRS with the sole mission of putting American taxpayers first by: Restructuring the IRS around three major units: one for individuals and families, one for businesses of all sizes, and one that provides an independent “small claims court” approach to resolving routine disputes quickly; Installing a new commissioner, subject to two 3 year term limits, who will be required to administer the new tax code; Cutting down on IRS intimidating by creating an Office of Dispute Resolution to serve as an independent arbiter to protect the rights of American taxpayers; Cleaning out the bureaucracy by doing away with all the rules, regulations, forms and instructions; and, Modernizing information systems so that taxpayers have access to the resources they need when they need them. Learn even more at www.better.gop. ###
08.02.2016	, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: rgb(103, 103, 103); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">“Israel is a very special ally of the United States,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “Any attack on Israel of any kind is an attack on the American people. It was an honor for us to meet with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other Israeli civilian and military leaders to discuss what America can do to help them counter the numerous threats they continually face. Our two countries must stand inseparable to ensure their future, for anything less will threaten our own." “What became increasingly clear during our trip is that in a region consumed by terrorism and oppression, Israel stands out as a shining beacon of hope and freedom,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “America has a special relationship with Israel, bonded by a shared set of core values and strategic interests. We must strengthen our friendship with Israel by working together to destroy terrorism and doing everything we can to prevent the Iranian regime from developing nuclear weapons.” “Over the course of the last week, my colleagues and I have met some of Israel's top leaders, and I can confidently say that Israel's priorities are not only directly in line with those of the United States, but they are working toward a safer Middle East,” said Senator David Vitter. “Perhaps more disconcerting is the fact that our conversations last week made clear that the Obama Administration's nuclear deal with Iran moves the timeline of a nuclear Iran from a hypothetical ‘if’ to ‘when.’ We must absolutely continue working with our Israeli allies against Iran’s global aggression to keep our citizens, families, and communities safe.” “As the threats from radical Islamic extremism grow worldwide, it is imperative that the U.S. Stands with our partner in peace, Israel,” said Senator Steve Daines. “After hearing from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and other leaders in Israel it is clear now more than ever that we must work together to keep our nations and the world safe.” The trip was sponsored and paid for by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF), which is privately funded by American citizens. ###
07.27.2016	line; font-stretch: inherit; font-size: 18.2px; line-height: 26px; font-family: "Helvetica Neue", Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; color: rgb(103, 103, 103); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">Creating a one-time open enrollment period for individuals to join the healthcare market if they are uninsured; Empowering states to design Medicaid programs that best meet their needs to help reduce costs and improve care for the most vulnerable individuals; Codifying permanent protections for life and conscience so that doctors, nurses, hospitals and providers have the freedom to exercise their conscience and opt out of providing abortions; and, Preventing federal taxpayer dollars from being used for abortions. “A Better Way to Fix Health Care” encourages biomedical innovation to accelerate the discovery, development and delivery of life-saving treatments by: Providing the NIH with a robust, steady level of discretionary funding while increasing accountability for taxpayers; Ensuring taxpayers get the most out of their tax dollars by breaking down barriers to sharing and analyzing health data; Streamlining clinical trials and modernizing data-collection activities to improve how treatments are developed, tested, and ultimately approved by the FDA; Advancing personalized medicine by making sure the regulatory system keeps pace with the state of science so that patients can be treated based on their genetic makeup; and, Improving the use of electronic health records to help spur innovation and improve partnerships between the technology and healthcare sectors. “A Better Way to Fix Health Care” protects and preserves Medicare by: Strengthening Medicare Advantage and repealing the most damaging Medicare provisions in Obamacare, including the unaccountable and bureaucratic Independent Payment Advisory Board; Adopting bipartisan reforms to make Medicare more responsive to patients’ needs, while updating payment models that are outdated and inefficient; and, Preserving Medicare for future generations by giving future beneficiaries the opportunity to choose from an array of competing private plans alongside traditional Medicare, which will help seniors pay for or offset premium costs for the plan of their choice. This would begin in 2024. Learn more at www.better.gop ###
07.22.2016	e: 0px; vertical-align: baseline; font-style: inherit; font-variant: inherit; font-weight: inherit; font-stretch: inherit; font-size: inherit; line-height: inherit; font-family: inherit;">Putting a Stop to Executive Overreach In FY2016, taxpayers spent about $310 billion on agencies and programs for which authorizations had already expired or were about to expire. “A Better Way to Do the People’s Business” gets a grip on unauthorized spending in order to improve accountability and transparency for taxpayers. In order to accomplish this, government agencies will be subject to more scrutiny from a Congress that writes clear laws and enforces clear lines of authority. Under our plan, the legislative process will be simplified by writing legislation in plain language and with clear instructions to prevent excessive regulations. Rather than waiting years for a ruling, the judiciary will be empowered to expedite legal action against the executive branch to clear up disputes surrounding the separation of powers. Additionally, our plan gives agency watchdogs more tools to root out waste, fraud and abuse by allowing for more transparency. Reining in Regulations The Obama Administration has averaged more than 81 major regulations per year. These are rules and regulations that impact every aspect of our lives yet members of Congress have no vote on these measures. House Republicans believe that the people’s representatives in Congress should have a vote on every rule and regulation enforced on the American people. “A Better Way to Do the People’s Business” requires a simple up-or-down vote before major regulations take effect. This will prevent outgoing administrations from rushing to put in place new regulations on their way out of office. The courts will also be empowered with more authority to strike down excessive regulations. Imposing New Limits on Entitlement Spending The federal budget has grown in such size and scope that roughly 67% of every dollar spent is outside of Congress’s control. These programs are known as entitlement programs. Currently our debt is at $19 trillion — 85% of the increase in the debt is directly attributed to entitlement spending, such as Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, public housing, food stamps, etc. Our plan seeks to restore the power of the purse and impose new limits on entitlement spending so taxpayers know who is spending their money, what it’s being spent on, where it’s being spent, when it’s being spent and why it’s being spent. In order to get a grip on entitlement spending, our plan establishes a process to conduct a complete inventory on exactly what these programs are, as well as identifying reforms to save Social Security and Medicare from bankruptcy and restore accountability and transparency to every entitlement program. Increasing Transparency for Taxpayers In order to root out waste, fraud and abuse, “A Better Way to Do the People’s Business” puts in place measures to publish data on spending, link that financial data to performance data and toughen subpoena powers of Congress. Taxpayers have the right to have the tools necessary to better identify which programs are performing well and which ones are not. Our plan seeks to make that information accessible, searchable and reliable. ###
07.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced his recent appointment by Speaker Paul D. Ryan to serve on a bipartisan conference committee charged with producing a final National Defense Authorization Act to fund the military and secure the homeland. “I’m honored Speaker Ryan appointed me to serve on the conference committee tasked with working out policy differences between the House and Senate versions of the National Defense Act for Fiscal Year 2017,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “Congressman Rouzer’s knowledge of transportation, defense and veterans' issues make him a highly-qualified choice for the NDAA conference committee,” said Speaker Paul Ryan. “Although just a freshman in Congress, David has taken the lead on many issues critical to the safety and security of our great nation. We are pleased to have him lend his perspective during the upcoming negotiations.” ###
06.28.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Republicans unveiled a comprehensive plan to grow the economy by regulating smarter, delivering affordable and reliable energy, ending bailouts, putting students and workers first and cracking down on lawsuit abuse. This plan, referred to as “A Better Way to Grow Our Economy,” puts forth 101 recommendations and is the product of several months of taskforce meetings and discussions. “America should be the best place in the world to live, work, innovate and start a business; however, the heavy hand of the federal government is thwarting the potential of American citizens and businesses. ‘A Better Way to Grow our Economy’ is a plan to curtail the cost, complexity and uncertainty of federal regulations responsible for stifling our economy. Our regulatory system is out of date, costly and no longer reflects the economy of today. House Republicans believe the federal government should work for you – not against you. Our plan promotes competition, demands accountability, fosters growth, promotes financial independence and ends federal bailouts so that our economy and businesses can grow and good paying jobs can be created.” Eliminate Job Killing Regulations In 2015, regulations cost our economy $1.89 trillion in lost productivity and growth. Our plan stops bad regulations in their tracks by giving Congress the authority to approve all rules that would cost our economy more than $100 million a year. Our plan puts regulators on a budget by giving each agency a limit on the amount of regulatory costs they can impose each fiscal year. Agencies will also be required to publish the cost, including the costs of jobs lost, of new rules to foster accountability and transparency within these agencies. An independent commission will also be established to look over past regulations to see what has become outdated and to identify regulations that are no longer necessary and can be weeded out responsibly. Energy Independence “A Better Way to Grow Our Economy” seeks to deliver affordable and reliable energy by preventing agencies from keeping our resources in the ground and delaying vital energy infrastructure projects. Energy development will be accelerated by reforming the permitting process so that we may secure reliable and affordable energy. Under our plan, states are also given more control of federal land within their borders to jumpstart economic activity. We also make it easier to produce more of our own energy resources by rewriting the Five-Year Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) and Natural Gas Leasing Plan to foster responsible offshore energy production. Promote Free Enterprise Our plan puts faith in free enterprise, not the federal government. “A Better Way to Grow our Economy” fundamentally reforms the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to empower Americans and help them achieve financial independent. We seek to put an end to union favoritism by reining in the National Labor Relations Board and guaranteeing fair union elections and ensuring bargaining units promote the best interests of all workers in the workplace. Rein in Lawsuits Lastly, our plan seeks to stop lawsuit abuse. One study found that liability costs in the United States are more than 2.5 times more than that of Eurozone countries. Our plan reforms the system to stop baseless lawsuits, prevent trial lawyers from gaming the system and crack down on “sue and settle” practices. Under the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan, members of the House Republican Conference have participated in regular taskforce meetings in an effort to address and combat our nation’s biggest challenges – including poverty, national security, the economy, the Constitution, healthcare and tax reform. “A Better Way to Grow our Economy” is the third framework of ideas released. ###
06.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Republicans unveiled a comprehensive plan to strengthen our national security by defeating radical Islamic terrorists, securing our borders, identifying new threats and restoring our influence abroad. This plan, referred to as “A Better Way to Keep Us Safe and Free,” is the product of several months of taskforce meetings and discussions. “Our homeland is under attack by radical Islamic extremists. It is clear the President’s foreign policy is failing us at every turn. Now, more than ever, we need a comprehensive plan to prevent and defeat radical Islamic extremists. ‘A Better Way to Keep Us Safe and Free’ seeks to keep Americans safe from harm by putting forth measures to secure our borders, close security gaps in our transportation and immigration systems, strengthen requirements for those wishing to enter our country and increase our engagement within communities to prevent Americans from being recruited by Islamist extremists.” “A Better Way to Keep Us Safe and Free” includes 67 recommendations for Congress and a like-minded President who understands the realities of this dangerous world. The plan sets forth a comprehensive framework to defeat terrorism, protect our homeland, tackle new threats and restore the American influence. Under the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan, members of the House Republican Conference have participated in regular taskforce meetings in an effort to address and combat our nation’s biggest challenges – including poverty, national security, the economy, the Constitution, healthcare and tax reform. “A Better Way to Keep Us Safe and Free” is the second framework of ideas released. House Republicans are scheduled to unveil more ideas over the next few weeks. ###
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – With the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5053, the Preventing IRS Abuse and Protecting Free Speech Act, to eliminate an unnecessary and confidential form non-profits are required to submit to the IRS. Currently, the IRS requires 501 (c) organizations to submit a Schedule B form with the names and addresses of their donors. However, the IRS does not use this form for any stated purpose. H.R. 5053 seeks to prevent further taxpayer abuse by the IRS, especially in light of IRS employees “accidentally” leaking the National Organization of Marriage’s unredacted Schedule B form. “The IRS has a history of violating the first amendment rights of innocent Americans. Passage of H.R. 5053 is a vital step to reaffirming the right of every individual to free speech and will make it much more difficult for the IRS to intimidate or threaten individuals because of their political and personal beliefs.” ###
06.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – The office of Congressman David Rouzer is hosting three Resource Fairs for Senior Citizens to help answer questions seniors may have about benefits, legal matters, healthcare needs, and more. These Resource Fairs will be taking place in Brunswick County, New Hanover County and Johnston County. Staff from the Social Security Administration will be on hand to go over benefits and services offered, nurses to discuss the aging process and what to expect, individuals to provide information on various Medicare programs, such as Medicare Part D, as well as counselors to answer specific questions. “Our Senior Resource Fairs put North Carolina senior citizens in touch with individuals and experts who can educate and answer questions about benefits, resources, legal matters, health tips and more. Last year’s fairs were so well attended that we decided to add a third Resource Fair to help and assist even more citizens. I look forward to continuing these Resource Fairs so that seniors have the opportunity to increase their quality of life, stay engaged in their communities and learn more about what to expect during their sunset years.” Brunswick County WHERE: Brunswick Senior Resources Southport Senior Center WHEN: Tuesday, June 28th from 10:00 a.m. to noon New Hanover County WHERE: New Hanover County Senior Resource Center WHEN: Wednesday, June 29th from 10:00 a.m. to noon Johnston County WHERE: Johnston Medical Mall WHEN: Thursday, June 30th from 10:00 a.m. to noon ###
06.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the below statement following the Orlando terrorist attack: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims and the families of those who were killed and wounded in Orlando. There is little doubt that this was a violent act of radical Islamic terrorism. The brutal attacks in Orlando are just one more wake-up call begging for a comprehensive plan to dismantle and destroy the radical Islamic safe-havens and their networks of promotion and funding.” ###
06.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, House Republicans unveiled a comprehensive plan to fight poverty by encouraging work, expanding opportunity and increasing government accountability. This plan, referred to as “A Better Way to Fight Poverty,” is the product of several months of taskforce meetings and discussions. “For far too long, Washington has overpromised and under delivered for our poor. Instead of expanding opportunities for individuals to harness skills, gain employment and earn money, their potential has been handicapped by shuffling them from welfare program to program. This has resulted in a system that discourages work and one’s ability to break out of poverty. Our plan, ‘A Better Way to Fight Poverty,’ reverses this mentality by rewarding work, tailoring benefits to people’s needs, improving job skills, investing in education, and encouraging individuals to plan and save for the future while demanding accountability and results. I am honored to stand with my colleagues and offer up this bold plan to provide every American with the opportunity to succeed and prosper.” ‘A Better Way to Fight Poverty’ incorporates stronger work requirements by requiring states to connect more people with good jobs, deliver better access to job training, provide skills development training for non-custodial parents and encourage work-capable adults who receive food stamps to work or prepare for work. Instead of a one-size-fits-all approach, the plan recognizes that individuals have different needs. Therefore, this plan provides flexibility to states in order to repackage benefits based off of one’s needs to help them achieve success. For example, people receiving benefits will have greater portability with housing assistance so that they can move to areas with more jobs and opportunities. In an effort to protect the next generation from poverty, the plan focuses on improving schools and skills from early childhood development through college – especially focusing on at-risk youth. The plan also reforms child nutrition programs to help those in rural and low-income areas. Nearly 9.6 million households in America do not have bank accounts. Unfortunately, the tools to save and prepare for the future remain out of reach for many Americans. ‘A Better Way to Fight Poverty’ will make it easier for individuals and their families to plan for the future and be retirement-ready. Under the leadership of Speaker Paul Ryan, members of the House Republican Conference have participated in regular taskforce meetings in an effort to address and combat our nation’s biggest challenges – including poverty, national security, the economy, the Constitution, healthcare and tax reform. “A Better Way to Fight Poverty” is the first framework of ideas released. House Republicans are scheduled to unveil more ideas over the next few months. ###
05.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed a bill to use funds already appropriated to address and prevent the spread of the Zika virus in the United States. The bill allocates $622.1 million in existing funds to the Department of Health and Human Services agencies, the State Department, and USAID for Zika prevention and treatment efforts. Because this is not new spending, the funding is available immediately. “The Zika outbreak is a public health emergency threatening the well-being and lives of women, infants, children and the elderly. Unfortunately, there is no known cure or treatment for this disease. I’m pleased the House acted this week to pass this bill by directing existing funds be used to help prevent the spread of the virus, put in place safeguards to protect the vulnerable, and establish strong oversight measures to ensure these funds are spent effectively.” The Zika virus is spread primarily through the bite of an infected mosquito. Under this measure, $170 million is allocated to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to target funding to states with heavy mosquito populations and for programs for prenatal care, delivery and postpartum care. The National Institutes of Health will receive $230 million to fund vaccines and diagnostic test research. The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development will be allocated $103 million to support research and development activities. In order to combat the disease abroad, the State Department and USAID will be provided $119.1 million to help mosquito control efforts and information campaigns vital to limiting mosquito exposure. The $622 million in new funding for Zika is fully offset by repurposing leftover funds for the response to the Ebola virus and funds from the Department of Health and Human Service Non-Reoccuring Expense Fund. This in addition to the $589 million that has already been repurposed from unused Ebola funds. In total, Congress will have allocated $1.2 billion to fight Zika once this bill becomes law. ###
05.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed a bill to use funds already appropriated to address and prevent the spread of the Zika virus in the United States. The bill allocates $622.1 million in existing funds to the Department of Health and Human Services agencies, the State Department, and USAID for Zika prevention and treatment efforts. Because this is not new spending, the funding is available immediately. “The Zika outbreak is a public health emergency threatening the well-being and lives of women, infants, children and the elderly. Unfortunately, there is no known cure or treatment for this disease. I’m pleased the House acted this week to pass this bill by directing existing funds be used to help prevent the spread of the virus, put in place safeguards to protect the vulnerable, and establish strong oversight measures to ensure these funds are spent effectively.” The Zika virus is spread primarily through the bite of an infected mosquito. Under this measure, $170 million is allocated to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to target funding to states with heavy mosquito populations and for programs for prenatal care, delivery and postpartum care. The National Institutes of Health will receive $230 million to fund vaccines and diagnostic test research. The Biomedical Advanced Research and Development will be allocated $103 million to support research and development activities. In order to combat the disease abroad, the State Department and USAID will be provided $119.1 million to help mosquito control efforts and information campaigns vital to limiting mosquito exposure. The $622 million in new funding for Zika is fully offset by repurposing leftover funds for the response to the Ebola virus and funds from the Department of Health and Human Service Non-Reoccuring Expense Fund. This in addition to the $589 million that has already been repurposed from unused Ebola funds. In total, Congress will have allocated $1.2 billion to fight Zika once this bill becomes law. ###
05.19.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement following the passage of Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act, an authorization bill considered by Congress every year to set funding levels for the military to continue its operations and remain a global leader: “As a Congress, it is our obligation to ensure our military and troops have the necessary funding to provide for our defense and combat the most immediate dangers to our homeland, especially the threat of ISIS and other terrorist networks. This year’s NDAA provides our troops with a pay raise and increases our military readiness while making reforms to improve the effectiveness and efficiency the Department of Defense. Passage of this bill is critical to our military installations in North Carolina and our national defense.” ###
05.17.2016	background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">Under federal law, veterans who suffer combat-related injuries and who are separated from the military are not supposed to be taxed on the one-time lump sum disability severance payment they receive from the DoD. However, due to an accounting error, millions are owed to an estimated 14,000 veterans. H.R. 5015 corrects this problem by instructing the DoD to identify those who were wrongfully taxed so that they can be reimbursed. “Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines risk their lives every day to protect our freedoms. My bill is a common-sense solution to ensure that every veteran who has had their severance payments improperly taxed receive every penny that they are rightfully owed. These veterans deserve no less for their service and sacrifice to our nation,” said Congressman Rouzer. The bill has been assigned to the House Armed Services Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee. Co-sponsors of H.R. 5015 include: U.S. Representatives Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Tom Cole (R-OK), Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Walter B. Jones, Jr. (R-NC), Martha McSally (R-AZ), Robert Pittenger (R-NC), David P. Roe (R-TN), and Chris Stewart (R-UT). This problem was originally identified by the National Veterans Legal Services Program (NVLSP), an independent, nonprofit veterans service organization that has served active duty military personnel and veterans since 1980. NVLSP estimates that over 13,800 veterans potentially have been denied full severance pay as a result of wrongful taxation, including 565 veterans in North Carolina. “The government knew about this problem for decades yet continued to take this money from thousands of disabled combat veterans. After exploring all legal options, we concluded that the only viable path to recovery of these misappropriated payments was through legislation. We hope other Representatives will support the bill so these combat-disabled veterans can receive the disability severance pay that they earned and their country owes them,” said Tom Moore, attorney and manager of the Lawyers Serving Warriors project at NVLSP. BACKGROUND ON THE NEED FOR THE LEGISLATION:? One-time lump sum disability severance payments to active duty service members have been excluded from taxable income since a 1991 court ruling. This exclusion has been codified into the Department of Defense’s Financial Management Regulation, and also clarified in regulations used by the service branches. Due to limitations in its accounting system, the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) knowingly took millions in “tax payments” from combat disabled service members. To recoup wrongfully withheld funds, veterans could have filed an amended tax return with the Internal Revenue Service, but most of the thousands of veterans affected are outside of the three-year period in which they can file an amended tax return. Only legislation passed by Congress and signed into law by the President can correct this injustice. MEDIA CONTACTS? For Congressman Rouzer’s Office: Danielle Adams,Danielle.adams@mail.house.gov For NVLSP: Ami Neiberger-Miller, ami@steppingstoneLLC.com ###
05.13.2016	nd Postpartum Women Act of 2016 H.R. 1818 – Veteran Emergency Medical Technician Support Act of 2016 H.R. 4969 – John Thomas Decker Act of 2016 H.R. 4586 – Lali’s Law H.R. 4599 – Reducing Unused Medications Act of 2016 H.R. 4976 – Opioid Review Modernization Act of 2016 H.R. 4982 – Examining Opioid Treatment Infrastructure Act of 2016 H.R. 4981 – Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act H.R. 4641 – To provide for the establishment of an inter-agency task force to review, modify, and update best practices for pain management and prescribing pain medication, and for other purposes H.R. 5046 – Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act of 2016 The bills were combined into a single legislative package and voted on as a rule to amend the Senate-passed opioid legislation, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. The next step will be to vote to go to formal conference committee with the Senate to finalize the package and get it signed into law. ###
04.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act, authored by Congressman David Rouzer passed the House of Representatives where it now heads to the floor of the Senate. H.R. 1206 incentivizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to verify and ensure that current employers are paying their taxes. “Today we found who stands with the American people and who stands with the federal bureaucracy. No IRS employee should be above the law, nor should they be treated any differently than anyone else filing their taxes. The No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act will help ensure IRS employees pay their taxes just like every other law-abiding citizen.” A report conducted by the IRS’ Inspector General last year found that there are hundreds of employees who have failed to follow IRS guidelines when filing their own tax returns. The report found that there are at least five IRS employees who intentionally failed to file their taxes. H.R. 1206 passed the House of Representatives by 254-170. The bill now heads to the U.S. Senate for consideration. To read more about the IRS report, please click here. ###
04.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, H.R. 1206, the No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act, authored by Congressman David Rouzer passed the House Committee on Ways and Means where it now heads to the floor of the House of Representatives. H.R. 1206 incentivizes the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to verify and ensure that current employers are paying their taxes. “When press reports last year revealed that hundreds of IRS employees were not compliant with the requirements they are responsible for enforcing, I was outraged. The No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act ensures that IRS employees pay their taxes just like everyone else.” A report conducted by the IRS’ Inspector General found that there are hundreds of employees who have failed to follow IRS guidelines when filing their own tax returns. The report found that there are at least five IRS employees who intentionally failed to file their taxes. "Congressman Rouzer’s bill epitomizes the level of accountability we are trying to deliver to the IRS,” said Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady. “Rouzer’s legislation would require the Treasury Secretary to certify that no IRS employees have serious delinquencies with respect to their own tax obligations. It is the height of hypocrisy that the IRS could have employees who are blatantly ignoring their own tax obligations.” H.R. 1206 passed the House Ways and Means Committee with a voice vote. The bill now heads to the floor for consideration by the full House. To read more about the IRS report, please click here. ###
03.29.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer will be hosting a youth leadership conference for high school juniors in the 7th Congressional District on April 5, 2016. The first annual 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference provides two juniors from each high school an opportunity to meet with entrepreneurial leaders, discuss ways to achieve entrepreneurial success and develop the necessary personal and professional skills to achieve goals. This conference is being conducted in coordination with the General Hugh Shelton Leadership Center at NC State University as well as participation by the UNC Wilmington Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. There will be a lineup of speakers and engaging activities focused on values-based leadership and the personal traits and qualities that lead to lasting success. Every high school in the 7th District was asked to participate in the first annual 7th Congressional District Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurship Conference. The method and criteria used for selection of these students was up to each respective school. NC-07 YOUTH LEADERSHIP AND ENTREPRENEURIAL CONFERENCE WHAT: Congressman David Rouzer hosts NC-07 Youth Leadership and Entrepreneurial Conference. WHO: Selected juniors from each high school in the 7th District and members of the press are invited to attend. WHERE: Sampson County Agri-Exposition Center, 414 Warsaw Rd., Clinton, NC 28328, in Prestage Hall, Salons A and B (on the side of the building away from McDonald’s Restaurant. WHEN: April 5, 2016 from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Members wishing to attend and speak with Congressman Rouzer during the event are asked to email Danielle Adams (Danielle.adams@mail.house.gov) to coordinate details. ###
03.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution to condemn the mass atrocities of ISIS against Christians, Yezidis and other minority groups displacing more than half a million and ruthlessly murdering thousands of men, women and children who will not align themselves with it’s cause. “This administration can turn a blind eye all they want, but the fact of the matter is ISIS targets Christians, Yezidis and other ethnic and religious minorities brutally murdering them all. Without questions these heinous acts are genocide, and we should call it what it is. The world needs to know that the U.S. Congress and the American people condemn these atrocious acts of brutality and murder by ISIS.” The resolution passed the House with a unanimous vote of 383-0. The resolution was voted on ahead of a congressionally mandated deadline of March 17 for Secretary of State John Kerry and the White House to make a final decision on whether ISIS is perpetrating genocide. ###
03.09.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer is now accepting submissions for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. All high school students who are residents of the 7th District of North Carolina are encouraged to participate. The winning entry will be displayed in the United States Capitol building in Washington, D.C. “This year’s art competition is an opportunity for students to creatively express what they love most about our beloved Tarheel State. The winning artist from the 7th District will have their artwork on display for eleven months in the Capitol tunnel which is seen by thousands of visitors from across the country, Congressional staffers and members of Congress. Every time I go to the House floor to vote, I walk through this tunnel which serves as a constant reminder of the impressive talent and creativity fostered in high schools throughout North Carolina and across the country.” This year, high school students from across the 7th Congressional District are invited to enter their best artwork reflecting the theme, “What I Love About North Carolina.” Students wishing to participate in this year’s Art Competition are asked to submit their artwork to one of Congressman Rouzer’s three District offices, located in Smithfield, Bolivia and Wilmington by Friday, March 25, 2016. Each student will be allowed to submit up to two (2) entries. Winners are presented with two round trip tickets to Washington, D.C. to visit the nation’s capital and attend an exclusive reception inside the U.S. Capitol honoring the country’s winners courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Guidelines for the 2016 Artwork: Artwork must be two-dimensional; Each piece must be no larger than 28”x28”x4” - including the frame; Artwork cannot weigh more than 15 lbs; Work entered must be in the original; and, All work submitted must be framed or have reinforced backing and be ready to hang on the exhibition wall. Acceptable mediums for submissions: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor etc.; Drawings: pastels, colored pencil, pencil, charcoal, ink, markers; Collage; Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints; Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc.; Computer generated art; and, Photography. The deadline for students to submit their artwork is Friday, March 25. There will be a reception on Friday, April 22nd in Bolivia, NC, for all participants to attend. Congressman Rouzer will formally announce the 7th District Art Competition winner at the reception. All entries will also be posted to his Facebook page prior to the Art Competition reception where a “Fan Favorite” winner will be determined. Students interested in participating in the competition are encouraged to contact Lisa Littler in my Smithfield office at (919) 938-3040. ###
03.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) released the statement below following news of the passing of First Lady Nancy Reagan: “I am very saddened by the passing of First Lady Nancy Reagan. Her fierce loyalty and devotion to Ronald Reagan helped make him the great man that he became. His Presidency made the world a better, more prosperous, and safer place by unshackling the American spirit, ingenuity and creativity that propelled us into a great period of prosperity and ended the Cold War. This is her legacy, and every generation will be forever grateful. May God’s peace comfort the Reagan family as only He can provide. My thoughts and prayers are with them.” ###
02.24.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the President’s announcement of his plans to close Guantanamo Bay: “President Obama’s announcement today of his plans to close Guantanamo Bay is simply reckless, and it is dead on arrival in Congress. The transferal of detainees to America is illegal because of language that he signed into law this past December. It's also terribly misguided and naive. The likelihood that one of these released detainees will return to a life of terrorism is certain. The Administration may claim that safeguards are in place, but sending these terrorists back to the Middle East or bringing them to the American Homeland puts our country at even greater risk. I will continue to work with my colleagues to ensure Guantanamo Bay remains open and its detainees stay right there where they belong.” ###
02.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – This week, bill language authored by Congressman Rouzer to designate and recognize the city of Wilmington as the first nationally recognized “American World War II City” passed the House of Representatives. H.R. 1512 establishes a process to allow the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to designate at least one city in the United States each year with this illustrious title. This city will be designated due to their mighty contributions to the war effort, and their amazing accomplishments in preserving the history of WWII. This is a major step in encouraging the preservation of our national heritage so that structures, artifacts, museums and veterans are properly and safely persevered. If passed into law, the city of Wilmington would be the first “American World War II City.” Due to the hard work and dedication of Captain Wilbur D. Jones, Jr., USNR (Ret.) – a Wilmington native, distinguished author and active veteran in the community – this bill came to fruition after 8 years of Jones’ continued work on this bill. “I would like to thank Captain Wilbur Jones for his tireless efforts to award Wilmington the recognition it deserves. The city of Wilmington was a vital and strategic location during World War II and was critical in supporting and winning the war. This bill will ensure that all cities with significant WWII history are given the distinction their residents and communities deserve.” Wilmington was regarded as the defense capital of the state during World War II with major industries supporting the war’s efforts - including shipbuilding, fertilizer plants, agriculture, manufacturing and clothing factories. Wilmington has numerous military museums, memorials and memorabilia detailing the history of the war and its impact around Southeastern North Carolina, including veterans who called Wilmington ‘home’ following the end of the war. Congressman Rouzer’s bill was rolled into H.R. 677, the American Heroes COLA Act of 2015, which provides for annual cost-of-living adjustments to be made automatically by law each year. ###
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, to curb the easing of economic sanctions that had been imposed on Iran before it signed last year’s nuclear deal. H.R. 3662 requires that the President certify that Iranian individuals or companies no longer support terrorism, assist with the pursuit of weapons of mass destructions, or engage in illicit financial activities before lifting sanctions. “In light of the Administration’s deal with Iran, we must put in place measures to cut off as much funding of terrorist activity as possible. Passage of H.R. 3662 would increase our national security by ensuring that banks and companies who support or engage in terrorism are not granted sanction relief.” Under the Iran nuclear agreement, the Obama Administration agreed to provide Iran relief from nuclear related sanctions by use of waivers and regulatory authority. H.R. 3662 provides Congress with increased oversight to ensure bad actors who engage or support international terrorism, Iran’s ballistic missile program, and its conventional weapons programs are not relieved of their sanctions. ###
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C. – Last night, the House of Representatives voted to override the President’s veto of H.R. 3762, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. Originally passed by the House of the Representatives in the fall, the bill was modified by the Senate and sent to the President’s desk last month where it was vetoed. This reconciliation bill would have repealed key elements of Obamacare and freeze funding for Planned Parenthood. “Since Obamacare was signed into law in 2010, it has been the goal of every conservative to get a bill that repeals this onerous law to the President’s desk. Because of the change in control of the Senate resulting from the 2014 election, the House and Senate were able to put a bill on the President’s desk repealing key provisions of Obamacare and preventing Planned Parenthood from receiving federal dollars through Medicaid reimbursements and other federal programs. Although the override vote was unsuccessful, the fight to repeal Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood is not over.” The healthcare portion of the bill includes measures to dismantle the employer and individual mandates, repeals the burden of the Cadillac Tax and Health Insurance Tax on small businesses, repeals the medical-device tax, cuts funding for the health-care rationing board, and stops the taxpayer bailout of insurance companies. If the override vote were successful, the bill would have cut more than $500 billion in spending. ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) released the statement below following President Obama’s State of the Union address: “Tonight, the issues and fears that are front and center in the hearts and minds of the American people were not addressed. We need a clear and comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS and regain our influence in the world. Additionally, we should be reducing the size and scope of government so we can create a strong economy that produces jobs. What we heard from the President tonight will accomplish neither.” ###
01.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman Rouzer, the House passed a joint resolution with the Senate to block the “Waters of the United States” rule issued by the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers which expands the types of waters subject to the agencies’ rules and regulations. Currently, the EPA’s oversight applies to all navigable waters. Under this proposed rule, the “Waters of the U.S.” would expand the definition of “navigable” to include smaller bodies of water and even some dry land resulting in a major overreach of federal power – essentially putting the EPA in charge of every square inch of both private and state land. “If signed by the President, this bill would be a victory for farm families and small businesses throughout Southeastern North Carolina. This rule would expand the EPA’s regulatory reach to practically any body of water– including water puddled in a ditch after a rain storm. No bureaucrat in Washington should be able to dictate what our farm families, small businesses, local governments and citizens do on their property after a significant rainfall. I’m pleased that we are putting this bill on the President’s desk to nullify this burdensome regulation.” The waters rule, also referred to as “WOTUS,” was developed to clarify which waterways are subject to Clean Water Act requirements. It was published in the Federal Register on June 29, 2015 and took effect 60 days later on August 28, 2015. On October 9, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit placed a nationwide stay on the rule. The joint resolution passed the House today with a 253-166 vote. ###
01.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Last night, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07), the House of Representatives passed the Senate Amendment to H.R. 3762, Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. Originally passed by the House of the Representatives in the fall and modified by the Senate, this reconciliation bill repeals key elements of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood in its entirety – both discretionary and mandatory spending. “Since the President’s healthcare plan was signed into law in 2010, it has been the goal of conservatives to get a bill to the President’s desk that repeals this onerous and destructive law. Due to a tremendous amount of hard work this past year, this has now been achieved,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “This bill is the one and only legislative vehicle available, thanks to the passage of a Budget Resolution, that allows the Senate to avoid the 60 vote threshold required under their rules. I’m very pleased that this bill also defunds every federal dollar going to Planned Parenthood.” The healthcare portion of the bill includes measures to dismantle the employer and individual mandates, repeals the burden of the Cadillac Tax and Health Insurance Tax on small businesses, repeals the medical-device tax, cuts funding for the health-care rationing board, and stops the taxpayer bailout of insurance companies through the risk-corridor program. If enacted into law, the bill would cut more than $500 billion in spending. Last night’s House vote marks the first time a piece of legislation to repeal Obamacare will go to President’s desk. ###
01.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) released the statement below following President Obama’s press conference today outlining his plans to take several executive actions to undermine Americans’ second amendment rights “President Obama’s executive orders to circumvent Congress and impose new gun control measures are unconstitutional. At a time when our homeland is encountering increased terrorist threats by the day, we cannot afford to jeopardize the safety and security of our nation by placing new restrictions on law-abiding citizens’ constitutional right to keep and bear arms. I have no doubt that the President’s actions will face significant opposition in the courts, just as the courts have issued a preliminary injunction halting the President’s executive amnesty. In the meantime, I will continue to do everything I can to protect our 2nd amendment rights.” ###
12.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer voted in support of H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, commonly referred to as the “omnibus.” This bill provides funding for appropriated programs established under the FY16 budget – including providing for our national defense, strengthening our visa system to prevent terrorists from using loopholes to enter our homeland, solidifying our role as a dominant energy player in the global market, and prohibiting the IRS from targeting conservative groups and citizens for exercising their right to free speech. “The national security threats to our homeland increase by the day,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “The biggest danger we face right now is radical Islamic extremists working to enter our country and cause us harm. I voted in support of the omnibus bill because it not only increases defense funding to provide our military with the necessary resources to keep us safe, but it also closes dangerous loopholes within our visa system that will help prevent terrorists from entering our country.” “As the Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, I’m grateful for Congressman Rouzer’s support on this critical bill to provide our men and women in uniform with much-needed funding to win the fight against terrorism,” said Chairman Mac Thornberry of the House Armed Services Committee. “The military installations and servicemembers of North Carolina are vital to strengthening and maintaining our national security and the safety of American citizens during this time of great uncertainty.” H.R. 2029 also includes the following provisions: Prevents the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay to American soil; Lifts the crude oil export ban which will strengthen our national security interests and add as much as $170 billion annually to our national gross domestic product (GDP); Secures stability for our farmers through regulatory relief and other helpful measures; Blocks the EPA’s overreach by withholding funding for new or expanded programs, putting its appropriations at 2008 levels; Prevents the IRS from discriminating against and unfairly targeting non-profit conservative groups; Prohibits taxpayer dollars to fund abortions; Prohibits gene editing of human embryos and prohibits funding for the creation and destruction of embryos; and, Prohibits members of Congress from receiving an automatic increase in pay. H.R. 2029 passed by a vote of 316-113. The bill now heads to the Senate for its consideration. ###
12.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act (H.R. 158) to close security gaps and strengthen the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) by prohibiting individuals who have been to countries of concern as well as countries designated as State Sponsors of Terrorism, such as Syria, Iraq, and Iran, from entering the United States unless they are interviewed by U.S. officials and have obtained a visa. “At a time when we are encountering increased threats to our homeland, we must ensure that those who are from any one of the thirty-eight countries participating in our Visa Waiver Program (VWP) and who have recently traveled to countries with terrorist hotspots undergo stringent screenings before obtaining a visa,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “H.R. 158 takes reasonable and commonsense steps to ensure that the Visa Waiver Program is not used as a loophole for terrorists to exploit and enter our country.” Our current visa system, designed years ago to encourage tourism and facilitate commerce with other countries, allows individuals from 38 designated countries to travel to the United States for up to 90 days. Instead of going to a U.S. consulate to obtain a visa, citizens from countries who participate in the Visa Waiver Program must only provide detailed background information through an online form that is screened against U.S. security systems and have a passport from their home country. H.R. 158 prevents individuals who have connections to countries with significant terrorist activity, such as Iraq and Syria, from entering the United States under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP). The bill also demands other countries share their intelligence and law enforcement information to help the U.S. better identify potential terrorist and foreign fighters from VWP countries. H.R. 158 passed the House by a vote of 407-19. ###
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed an amendment authored by Congressman David Rouzer to protect consumers and small businesses from the increased costs of a recent rule introduced by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In early March of 2015, the EPA published a final rule that established costly new standards for the manufacture of wood heaters. This onerous rule will result in substantial new production costs effectively pricing wood heaters out of the market at a time when the use of wood heathers to reduce energy costs is increasing. “The EPA has no business meddling with how wood heaters are made — much less putting in place new regulations that would effectively price them out of the market,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “More and more families are using wood heaters to help lower their energy costs during these tough economic times. I thank my colleagues for supporting this common sense amendment, which strikes down these new and unnecessary regulations.” Congressman Rouzer’s amendment was included and passed by way of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act. This broad energy bill seeks to maximize America's energy potential, update and modernize outdated policies, make our energy infrastructure more resilient and create jobs. H.R. 8, which included Congressman Rouzer’s wood heater amendment, passed the House of Representatives with a vote of 249-174. ###
12.03.2015	BIPARTISAN, BICAMERAL EDUCATION BILL TO ALLOW NORTH CAROLINA TO OPT OUT OF COMMON CORE PASSES HOUSE Washington, D.C. – Last night, with the support of Congressman David Rouzer, the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report for S. 1177 – the Every Student Succeeds Act— which reduces the role of the federal government in K-12 education, restores local control, promotes school choice and empowers teachers and parents. The Every Student Succeeds Act also allows states to opt-out of Common Core by prohibiting the federal government from incentivizing, forcing or coercing states into adopting the federal standards. “Though this bill doesn’t go as far as I would like, it certainly is an improvement over current law,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I’ve heard from teachers and parents all throughout the district who are frustrated with Common Core and over-burdened by the heavy hand of the federal government in education. The Every Student Succeeds Act gives much more control to the states, and I urge the President to sign it immediately so that North Carolina can begin to opt-out of Common Core. The limitations on the amount of testing as well as the use of test results will be welcome news to teachers and administrators.” The House education bill, H.R. 5, the Student Success Act and the Senate version, S. 1177, Every Child Achieves Act of 2015 went to a House-Senate Conference to iron out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. The Every Student Succeeds Act that was voted and passed by the House of Representatives last night now heads to the Senate for a final vote. Following the passage of the Conference Report in the Senate, the Every Student Succeeds Act will head to the President’s desk for his consideration. ###
11.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – This month, in honor of Veterans Day, Congressman Rouzer introduced H.R. 3914 – the Half-Staff for Homeland Heroes Act – to require the American flag to be flown at half-staff when members of our Armed Forces are killed in the line of duty on American soil. “It is because of our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines that our nation remains ‘the land of the free and home of the brave.’ We should never fail to honor our active duty servicemembers or veterans when it is due. The Half-Staff for Homeland Heroes Act will ensure that our fallen heroes are always honored in this manner when they’ve made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation.” Congressman Rouzer introduced this bill due to the events which followed the terrorist attacks in Chattanooga, Tennessee this past summer. It was only after President Obama received sharp criticism from the American people and the media that he ordered all flags at federal offices and buildings to be flown at half-staff. To read a copy of H.R. 3914, please click here.
11.23.2015	New Hanover County, N.C. – New Hanover County, Cape Fear Public Utility Authority and Congressman David Rouzer convened a meeting on Thursday, November 12 on the status of the Wilmington VA Health Care Center as part of their ongoing effort to resolve the water quality issues at the Wilmington VA and obtain their mutual goal of providing quality healthcare to the veterans in the area and their families. The following was discussed at the meeting: New Hanover County’s representatives outlined for the Congressman the procedure that has been established to ensure that the root cause of the water quality issues is identified and that the situation is remedied. The building owner/landlord has hired a Wilmington-based engineering firm to conduct the investigation and to recommend steps to mitigate the source of the problem. Upon completion of the necessary corrective action a repeat analysis of the water from the building’s fixtures will be conducted to ensure its potability. As soon as it can be demonstrated that the water is potable, the New Hanover County Department of Health “Do Not Use Water” notice will be removed. According to VA officials, the majority of the facility is operational, and the full range of services the building was designed to provide are available to Veterans except gastroenterology and urology procedures. These services include primary care, dental, mental health, audiology, optometry, pharmacy and specialty clinics and more. “Every party involved is committed to resolving this issue as quickly as possible for our veterans,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I’m confident that this is the best process to determine the source of the contamination so that we can get this issue resolved.” ###
11.19.2015	Washington – Today, with Congressman David Rouzer’s support, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. This bill halts the admission of any proposed Syrian or Iraqi refugee to the United States, or any proposed refugee present in Iraq or Syria at any time on or after March 1st, 2011, until our nation’s top security officials—the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence— unanimously certify that the individual does not represent a security threat. “The barbaric terrorist attacks conducted by ISIS within the last week bring into clear focus the need to strengthen our national security by halting the importation of refugees from Iraq and Syria. This is a new day and time, and these refugees are not refugees of past years. The safety of our citizens and our country must remain the top priority. The American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act is a first step to protecting our country from future harm and ensuring that potential terrorists do not slip through the cracks of our refugee process. I urge the Senate to pass and the President to sign this legislation immediately.” H.R. 4038 puts in place the most robust national-security vetting process in history for any refugee population, and it gives the American people the assurances needed that we will do everything possible to prevent terrorists from reaching our shores. Under this legislation, no Syrian or Iraqi refugee may enter the United States until the American people’s representatives in Congress receive certifications from the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI and the Director of National Intelligence that they pose no threat to our homeland. It also creates an additional layer of protection by requiring the DHS Inspector General to independently assess the refugee approvals. H.R. 4038 passed the House by a vote of 289-137. Congressman Rouzer is a cosponsor of the bill. ###
11.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced his next “Coffee with Your Congressman” in Calabash this Friday, November 20th at 9:30 a.m. “Coffee with Your Congressman” serves as a venue for constituents to meet with Congressman Rouzer, share their opinions and concerns while also serving to update Southeastern North Carolinians on his work in Washington. “Hearing directly from the citizens of the district is critical to representing Southeastern North Carolina to the best of my ability. This week’s ‘Coffee with Your Congressman’ in Calabash is a great opportunity for individuals to ask questions, share their legislative ideas and discuss ways in which we can make this country a better place for hard-working taxpayers, their families and future generations. I encourage all those who can make it to attend this event.” This week’s “Coffee with Your Congressman” will take place on Friday, November 20th at 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. at Dockside Seafood House Restaurant in Calabash. Those wishing to share their opinions and concerns while also receiving updates on Congressman Rouzer’s legislation and policy positions are encouraged to attend. This event is free and open to residents of the Seventh District of North Carolina. “Coffee with Your Congressman” in Calabash WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts “Coffee with Your Congressman” in Calabash WHERE: Dockside Seafood House Restaurant, 9955 Nance Street, Calabash, NC 28467 WHEN: Friday, November 20th from 9:30 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend ###
11.17.2015	Washington -- This afternoon, the ten Republican members of North Carolina's U.S. House of Representatives delegation released the following statement in response to Friday's terrorist attacks in Paris and Governor Pat McCrory's request that the Obama Administration cease sending Syrian refugees to North Carolina. The joint statement was issued by Congresswoman Renee Ellmers (NC-2), Congressman Walter Jones (NC-3), Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (NC-5), Congressman Mark Walker (NC-6), Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7), Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-8), Congressman Robert Pittenger (NC-9), Congressman Patrick McHenry (NC-10), Congressman Mark Meadows (NC-11), and Congressman George Holding (NC-13). “Last Friday we were horrified to watch the terrorist attacks unfold in Paris. To see innocent lives taken by a group of radical Islamic terrorists was sickening and our prayers go out to all those impacted by this unspeakable tragedy. “In the days since, we have been deeply troubled to learn one of the terrorists who committed this atrocity may have come to Europe posing as a Syrian refugee. With the massive influx of Syrian refugees to Europe, this was always a threat and, regrettably, now it’s been realized. “Given this development we have serious concerns about the ongoing resettlement of Syrian refugees to the communities we represent across North Carolina. As a delegation, we join with Governor McCrory in calling for the Obama Administration to immediately cease sending Syrian refugees to our state. We believe this is a common sense step and applaud Governor McCrory for his leadership on the issue. “The Paris attacks highlighted that ISIL is not contained and still poses a grave threat to Western Democracies. Blocking the flow of Syrian refugees until we can better understand and address security risks they may pose is a necessary step to protect our state and homeland.” ###
11.05.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the passage of S. 1356, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016 which authorizes the necessary funding for the Department of Defense so our service men and women have the tools and resources they need to defend our nation. The original NDAA Conference Report was passed by the House and Senate; however, the President vetoed the bill. “The soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines deserve better than the President’s use of the NDAA as leverage to increase spending for welfare and other non-defense related government programs. Despite President Obama’s outright veto of the bipartisan NDAA, the House came together today to circumvent the President’s gameship and ensure that our troops receive their pay and benefits, and that our nation has the resources necessary to protect us from harm.” The Fiscal Year 2016 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) authorizes spending for Department of Defense programs to meet global challenges, combat terrorism and pay our troops. ###
11.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement on the passing of Howard Coble, who served North Carolina’s 6th District for 30 years: “I’m deeply saddened by the passing of a very cherished friend, public servant and exemplary North Carolinian, Howard Coble. Howard served the great people of North Carolina for more than 30 years, and his selfless service and statesmanship improved our communities and state. He had a heart for his fellow man that was extraordinary. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family, friends and loved ones during this difficult time. He was the best, and his influence will continue to be felt by everyone whose life he touched.” ###
11.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – This week, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) joined Senator Richard Burr, Congressman Walter Jones (NC-03) and Senator Thom Tillis in writing a letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate urging support of Governor Pat McCrory’s request for a Public Assistance disaster declaration in the amount of $31.7 million for Brunswick, Carteret, Dare, Hyde, New Hanover, Onslow, Pamlico, and Pender Counties and statewide Hazard Mitigation as a result of severe storms and flooding that occurred during the period of September 25, 2015 through October 5, 2015. “The coastal flooding and subsequent damage resulting from the effects of Hurricane Joaquin caused significant damages and losses in our coastal communities,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “I respectfully encourage FEMA Administrator Fugate to approve this request immediately so that our beach and infrastructure needs can be properly addressed. This is important for our local economy and will help provide for future flood protection.” “We must repair the beaches and dunes that were damaged by the storm,” said Senator Burr. “These environmental components are a critical piece of the system that protects North Carolina’s costal region. Failure to proceed with repairs in a timely manner could cause additional environmental and economic damage to our coastal communities that rely on tourism. In 2014, the tourism industry generated nearly half a billion dollars in Brunswick county alone.” “Coastal infrastructure is critical to protecting Eastern North Carolina against future severe weather events and supporting the local economy,” said Rep. Walter Jones. “I’m hopeful FEMA will provide the much-needed support and will continue to do everything I can to make sure our coastal communities remain resilient against natural and economic threats.” “The devastating effects of Hurricane Joaquin on the North Carolina coast caused damages that will continue to plague our beaches and local economies in the region for some time to come,” said Senator Thom Tillis. “I urge FEMA Administrator Fugate to join our state in helping to rebuild our beach communities, ensuring a strong tourism industry that our local economies depend on.” In 2014, tourism in Brunswick and Carteret Counties alone generated more than $496 million and $324 million, respectively, and accounted for more than 8,000 jobs directly related to travel and tourism. From October 14 through October 22, 2015, FEMA, state, and local representatives conducted a Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment (PDA) and determined that eight North Carolina counties exceeded the threshold of eligibility for FEMA’s Public Assistance program. For each category of damage, insurance coverage was considered and estimates reduced accordingly, such that PDA estimates only include uninsured losses. More than 85 percent of the total damages are to North Carolina’s coastal county beaches, which are eligible for aid under FEMA’s Disaster Assistance Fact Sheet DAP9580.8 “Eligible Sand Replacement on Public Beaches” dated 10/01/2009, 44 CFR §206.225, 44 CFR §206.226 and 44 CFR §206.226(j)(2). For a copy of the letter, please click here. ###
11.02.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer announced two Senior Resource Fairs for seniors in North Carolina’s 7th District – one in Smithfield and one in Southport. These Senior Resource Fairs serve as an opportunity to link constituents with representatives from the Social Security Administration, Brunswick County Health Department, Johnston County Health Department and local senior centers. “My NC-07 Senior Resource Fairs in Smithfield and Southport are a great way for constituents to have their questions answered and receive advice about healthcare needs, Social Security benefits and more. The goals of these Senior Resource Fairs are to help seniors get the necessary information and resources to plan for the future. I encourage all seniors to attend this free and informational event.” The first Senior Resource Fair will take place in Smithfield on Tuesday, November 10 at the Johnston County Agriculture Center Auditorium from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. The second Senior Resource Fair will take place in Southport on Thursday, November 12 at the Southport Senior Center Auditorium from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Seniors are encouraged to attend to have their questions answered, meet with local and state agency representatives and increase awareness of benefits for which they are eligible. Smithfield Senior Resource Fair WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts NC-07 Senior Resource Fair in Smithfield WHERE: Johnston County Agriculture Center Auditorium, 2736 NC Highway 210, Smithfield, NC 27577 WHEN: Tuesday, November 10 from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Southport Senior Resource Fair WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts NC-07 Senior Resource Fair in Southport WHERE: Southport Senior Center Auditorium, 1513 Howe Street, Suite 1, Southport, NC 28461 WHEN: Thursday, November 12 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Members of the press are encouraged to RSVP to Danielle Adams at danielle.adams@mail.house.gov. ###
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer released the statement below following the House vote on H.R. 1314, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015. H.R. 1314 is a two-year budget deal which increases discretionary military and domestic spending by $80 billion and raises the debt ceiling by $1.5 trillion in new federal debt. “Though this budget agreement includes a much-needed increase in funding for our military, it authorizes far too much spending on other bloated federal bureaucracies that are harming economic growth and job creation.” H.R. 1314 passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 266-167. ###
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, with Congressman David Rouzer’s support, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3762 – Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015 to repeal major provisions of Obamacare and defund Planned Parenthood for one year while redirecting funds to community health centers. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this bill will reduce the deficit by $129.8 billion over the next 10 years. “For the past five years, we have all been forced to cope with the consequences of Obamacare - including increased healthcare costs, fewer coverage options and job losses. This bill is a great step in the right direction to repeal some of the worst aspects of Obamacare, while also protecting life, investing in women’s healthcare and reducing our deficit by more than $129 billion.” As a result of the House and Senate passage of a Budget Resolution earlier this year – the first in 10 years – Congress pursued a very unique piece of legislation known as “Budget Reconciliation.” A budget reconciliation measure only requires a simple majority in the Senate which means that it cannot be filibustered. The catch is, under the budget rules of reconciliation that were put in law with passage of the 1974 Budget Act, only narrowly crafted language that affects revenues and spending can be included. This prevents the full repeal of Obamacare from being included. However, under these strict rules of reconciliation key parts of the Affordable Care Act can be included, and striking them from the law would leave Obamacare dead in the water. H.R. 3762 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 240-189. H.R. 3762 is supported by Family Research Council, National Right to Life, National Taxpayers Union, National Retail Federation, Liberty Council Act, National Coalition of Benefits, Concerned Women for America, Susan B. Anthony List, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Americans United for Life, National Association of Manufacturers, National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, Liberty Counsel Action and Americans for Prosperity. ###
10.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the President’s veto on the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (NDAA), which provides the Department of Defense with the necessary resources and funding to meet global challenges, combat terrorism and pay our troops, while also ensuring our national defense. “At a time when our nation faces severe threats to our national security, a veto by President Obama on the NDAA is absolutely inexcusable. Our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines and the defense of this nation should not be used as political leverage to pressure Congress to increase spending for welfare and other non-defense related government programs. The tens of thousands of active duty servicemembers throughout Southeastern North Carolina deserve better. I urge President Obama to reconsider his veto so that our troops receive their pay and benefits, and our nation has the resources necessary to keep us safe from harm.” ###
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer released the statement below following the bipartisan passage of H.R. 702, a bill to lift the ban on crude oil exports which was established in 1975 as a response to the Arab oil embargo. “Our nation is in desperate need of generating as many good-paying jobs as possible. Lifting this decades old ban will boost our domestic energy supply, create an estimated 12,000 new jobs in North Carolina, help lower gas prices and increase our energy security while weakening countries like Iran and Russia who rely on oil as a political and economic weapon. This bill is a win for American workers, businesses and trade.” H.R. 702 would repeal certain restrictions on the export of domestically produced crude oil and would prohibit any federal official from imposing or enforcing such restrictions. This bill will also strengthen the 60-Ship Maritime Security Fleet assuring our country will have the commercial sealift capability to support and supply American troops during conflicts and emergencies overseas. This is vital to our ability to respond to any immediate need for supplies and food critical to our troops. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that H.R. 702 would cut mandatory spending by $1.4 billion over the 2016-2025 period. According to the Government Accountability Office, H.R. 702 will lower gasoline prices by 1.5 to 13 cents per gallon, and will create an estimated 294,000 additional U.S. jobs over the 2016-2030 period. H.R. 702 passed the House by a 261-159 vote. ###
10.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer released a statement applauding a federal court’s ruling today that the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule change to the definition of “Waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act cannot be enforced nationwide. Currently, the EPA’s oversight applies to all navigable waters. Under this proposed rule change, the “Waters of the U.S.” would include smaller bodies of water and even some dry land resulting in a major overreach of federal power – essentially putting the EPA in charge of every square inch of both private and state land. “Today’s court ruling is a victory for farm families and small businesses throughout Southeastern North Carolina. This rule change would have extended the EPA’s regulatory reach to practically any body of water – including water puddled in a ditch after a rain storm. No Washington bureaucrat should be able to dictate what our farm families, small businesses, local governments and citizens do on their property after a significant rainfall. I’m pleased the court sided with common sense and took this step to rein in the EPA’s massive overreach of federal power.” ###
10.08.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC) and Congressman Joe Courtney (D-CT) launched the bipartisan Primary Care Caucus to educate and advocate on behalf of primary care physicians, providers and patients. The Primary Care Caucus will focus on educating Congress on the importance of a comprehensive, continuous, coordinated and connected primary care system for patients and communities nationwide. “As we celebrate National Primary Care Week this week, we are reminded of the tens of thousands of families across our nation – and especially in my district which includes rural Southeastern North Carolina - that are affected by the shortage of primary care physicians,” said Rep. David Rouzer. “As the co-founder of the Primary Care Caucus, I look forward to working with Congressman Courtney to advocate and promote policies enabling all communities – both rural and urban – to receive access to the best healthcare services and providers possible.” "Increasing access to primary care is one of the best ways to promote better health outcomes and control costs,” said Rep. Joe Courtney. “As a co-founder of the Primary Care Caucus with Congressman Rouzer, I am looking forward to promoting health care policy that recognizes and capitalizes on the importance of primary care in underserved areas, and works to strengthen our primary care workforce nationwide.” Congressman Rouzer and Congressman Courtney launched the Primary Care Caucus on Thursday, October 8th as part of National Primary Care Week. Click here to view a video of Congressman Rouzer and Courtney discussing the importance of this Caucus. ###
10.07.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC) announced the deadline of Saturday, October 31st for eligible applicants in North Carolina’s 7th Congressional District to apply for a nomination to a United States Service Academy for the 2016 academic year. “It’s an honor to nominate some of the best and brightest students of Southeastern North Carolina to attend a United States Service Academy where they will receive a first-rate undergraduate education and have the opportunity to give back to our nation by serving on active duty as a military officer. I encourage all students in the 7th Congressional District who are interested in this opportunity to submit an application to my office by October 31st to be considered for a nomination.” The deadline to submit an application to be considered for a Service Academy nomination is Saturday, October 31st. Congressman Rouzer may nominate up to ten individuals for each vacant academy slot allotted to the 7th Congressional District. Members of Congress may nominate candidates for appointments to four of the five U.S. Service Academies, including the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, the U.S. Naval Academy, the U.S. Air Force Academy and the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. Students wishing to attend a U.S. Service Academy are encouraged to apply for a nomination. For more information, please visit my Military Academy Nominations page on my website. Any candidates with questions regarding the application process or deadline are encouraged to contact Carol Armstrong in my Smithfield office at (919) 938-3040 or carol.armstrong@mail.house.gov ###
10.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (NDAA) to provide the Department of Defense with necessary resources and funding to provide for our common defense. “The National Defense Authorization Act ensures that our military and servicemembers have the resources necessary to meet global challenges and combat terrorism while also ensuring that our nation has the best defense capabilities possible. Given the threats and instability we face as a result of the turmoil in the Middle East, I urge President Obama to withdrawal his veto threat and sign this bill. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines must have the tools necessary to succeed so that we can defeat our enemies abroad and protect our homeland.” The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 authorizes $515 billion in spending for national defense and an additional $89.2 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) for a total of $604.2 billion. Excluding an additional $7.7 billion for activities outside the House Armed Services Committee’s jurisdiction, the total funding for national defense is equivalent to the President’s total request for $611.9 billion in defense discretionary spending. As part of the Overseas Contingency Operations account, the proposal funds $38.3 billion in Operation and Maintenance activities in support of base budget requirements for national defense. The Conference Report and summary of this bipartisan agreement was passed by a vote of 270-156 and can be viewed here. ###
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (R-NC) released the below statement following the passage of a temporary spending measure until a final budget agreement is reached: “Though the vast majority of funding for Planned Parenthood is through Medicaid, which is unrelated to direct appropriations by Congress, I voted against the short-term spending bill today because it continues a relatively small portion of their taxpayer support. The videos that have come to light showing this organization’s disgusting practices of harvesting organs and other body parts of infants for profit is reprehensible. As a result, the House is currently conducting several different investigations on this matter. I am committed to working with my colleagues to help bring all the facts to light so that the American people will know how their taxpayer dollars have been used and we can right this wrong.” Last year, Planned Parenthood received approximately $528 million in taxpayer dollars through Medicaid and other programs. This summer, numerous videos were released showing senior Planned Parenthood officials discussing how to properly harvest and preserve the limbs and organs of aborted babies. The House passed the short-term funding bill by a vote of 277-151, where it now goes to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
09.18.2015	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on two bills to strengthen and protect pro-life policies: "Earlier this summer, videos were released showing employees at Planned Parenthood discussing a horrifying topic – the proper way to preserve the limbs and organs of a child during an abortion in order to harvest the organs for sale. Prolife, or prochoice, this should strike at the conscience of everyone. Today, the House passed two bills to strengthen the protections of the unborn and defund Planned Parenthood. It’s wrong for taxpayers, many of whom are opposed to killing unborn babies, to be forced to provide their tax dollars to help fund these horrific practices.” The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act – H.R. 3504 – strengthens current law to provide legal protection to infants born alive after a failed attempt at induced abortions. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act – H.R. 3134 – defunds Planned Parenthood for one year. ###
09.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer will be hosting two townhalls next week, one in Wilmington and the other in Smithfield. Townhalls are a venue for citizens to share their opinions and concerns while also serving to update Southeastern North Carolinians on his work in Washington. “Hearing directly from the citizens of the district is critical to representing Southeastern North Carolina to the best of my ability. These townhalls are an opportunity for constituents to ask questions, share their legislative ideas and discuss ways in which we can make this country a better place for hard-working taxpayers, their families and future generations.” Wilmington Townhall WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts townhall in Wilmington WHEN: Monday, September 21st at 7:00 p.m. WHERE: Roland-Grise Middle School 4412 Lake Avenue, Wilmington, NC 28403 WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congresssional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Smithfield Townhall WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts townhall in Smithfield WHEN: Tuesday, September 22nd at 7:00 p.m. WHERE: Johnston County Community College, Great Hall of the Tart Building 245 College Road, Smithfield, NC 27577 WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Constituents can register for the townhalls by emailing nc07.events@mail.house.gov. Members of the press wishing to attend must RSVP to Danielle Adams by emailing Danielle.Adams@mail.house.gov ###
09.11.2015	Washington, D.C. –Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House of Representatives voted on three bills challenging and expressing opposition to the Obama Administration’s agreement in nuclear negotiations with Iran: "We all remember September 11, 2001 like it was yesterday — just fourteen short years ago. The government of Iran, the world’s number one sponsor of terrorism, cheered while America and our allies mourned the more than 2,900 Americans who died on that tragic day. Today, we have an agreement with Iran before us that will determine America’s future over the course of the next fourteen years and beyond. Under this so-called ‘deal,’ Iran is guaranteed to have a nuclear arsenal that will threaten Israel, our other allies, and the American homeland. In the meantime, billions of dollars will be made available through the lifting of sanctions that will most certainly be used to sponsor acts of terrorism all across the world. For these reasons, I voted against this deal today and will continue to fight against its implementation." To view Congressman Rouzer’s floor speech discussing his opposition to the Iran deal, please click here. ###
09.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer will be hosting two Back-to-School Safety Fairs focused on safety and awareness for parents, guardians and students of North Carolina’s 7th District. These Back-to-School Safety Fairs will provide a fun opportunity for children to interact with public safety officials and vehicles and learn safety tips. Representatives of local and state agencies will also be on site to answer parents’ questions, discuss first aid tips and demonstrate the proper installation of car seats. “This is a great opportunity for families to get the tools and information necessary to help their children succeed in the classroom and become cautious and informed citizens. Whether that is knowing who to contact when encountering a fire hazard or knowing how to safely cross a busy road on the walk home from school, it’s imperative for our community to work together to help our kids stay safe. These Back-to-School Safety Fairs are a fun and informative way to increase safety knowledge and awareness for both the parents and students of Southeastern North Carolina.” The first safety fair will take place in Smithfield this Saturday, September 12th, and the second will take place in Wilmington on Saturday, September 19th. Children of all ages are encouraged to attend. Details for the Back-to-School Safety Fairs are below. Smithfield Back-to-School Safety Fair WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts Back-to-School Safety Fair in Smithfield WHERE: Johnston County Community College Auditorium, 245 College Road, Smithfield, North Carolina WHEN: Saturday, September 12 from 9:00 a.m. to Noon WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Wilmington Back-to-School Safety Fair WHAT: Congressman Rouzer hosts Back-to-School Safety Fair in Wilmington WHERE: Hoggard High School, 4305 Shipyard Boulevard, Wilmington, North Carolina WHEN: Saturday, September 19 from 9:00 a.m. to Noon WHO: Constituents of the Seventh Congressional District of North Carolina and members of the press are invited to attend. Members of the press wishing to attend either Back to School Information Fair are encouraged to RSVP to Danielle Adams at danielle.adams@mail.house.gov. ###
08.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald pressing for answers after the Department of Veterans Affairs mistakenly declared two NC-7 veterans “deceased” resulting in the sudden loss of their benefits. “The 7th district of North Carolina is fortunate to have 60,000 plus veterans call our state ‘home.’ As a congressional office helping our veterans through casework assistance, I would like to know the protocols the VA has in place to ensure our veterans’ benefits are not mistakenly terminated in the future. I look forward to hearing back from the VA to help gain a better understand of why this situation occurred and the steps the Department are taking to prevent a similar mistake from happening again.” In the letter, Congressman Rouzer asks the following questions: What documentation is required from the Social Security Administration for the DoD to determine the validity of a death notification? What policies does the VA have in place to ensure that a veteran’s benefits are not lost immediately due to a clerical error? What is the Veterans Administration doing to ensure that this error does not continue to occur? If there is policy in place, how are you assuring compliance within the VA Regional Offices? To read the letter, please click here. ###
07.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House passed the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 427) by a vote of 243 to 165: “Our Founding Fathers understood that it is dangerous for any branch of government to have unchecked power. The REINS Act would require executive agencies to submit every new major rule to Congress for final approval. This would re-assert Congress’s oversight authority as established in the Constitution.” Under the REINS Act, Congress would have 70 legislative days to approve a major rule with economic impact over $100 million, as certified by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), last year federal agencies published 80 major rules; based on historical data, over the last five years, the average was 82 major rules per year. ###
07.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) sent the attached letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald regarding the internal plumbing issues at the Veterans Hospital in Wilmington, North Carolina, as well as the facility’s lease agreement. “Months have passed without resolution to the plumbing issues at the Wilmington VA, which is unacceptable. Our veterans have been forced to find care at a non-VA facility in the community or drive a long distance to the Fayetteville VA Hospital. Veterans have made many sacrifices and they deserve the best care possible at a facility that is within a reasonable distance. “Additionally, I am also concerned about the reported expense associated with the lease of this facility. I have asked the Veterans Administration to provide my office with a copy of the lease agreement to get a better understanding of the monthly expenses. We should not be paying more for this facility than fair market price. “I am pleased the House Veterans Subcommittee on Oversight has agreed to look into these matters and hope the VA will act quickly to find an acceptable solution for our veterans.” ###
07.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) introduced the Drug Testing for Welfare Recipients Act (H.R. 3047), which would improve welfare programs by requiring recipients to pass a drug test in order to be eligible for federal assistance. “Most employers in this country require workers to pass drug tests as a prerequisite for employment. The government should expect the same of people who receive food stamps and other federal benefits. Additionally, taxpayers deserve to know that their money isn’t subsiding a drug addiction, which only leads to a tragic life of dependency,” said Congressman Rouzer. Watch Congressman Rouzer’s floor speech on the Drug Testing for Welfare Recipients Act here. ###
07.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced a final agreement in nuclear negations with Iran: “Iran's publicly stated goals are to wipe Israel from the face of the Earth and to destroy America, and they have a substantial history of actions which prove their commitment to both. A deal with Iran that rolls back sanctions simply means Iran will have more money to fund acts of terrorism as well as accelerate their advancement towards nuclear weapons. The Obama Administration is foolish to think this is good for anyone except Iran and their agents of terrorism. Rest assured, I will vote against this deal and will work hard to help secure the votes to override the President's likely veto." ###
06.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in Obergefell v. Hodges: “While I have great respect for the U.S. Supreme Court as an institution, our Founding Fathers never intended for a few individuals on the bench to override the will and deeply held cultural beliefs of millions of Americans who have expressed their desire to defend traditional marriage by amending their respective state constitutions. Marriage between a man and woman is a very sacred institution and has been the bedrock of every civilized society throughout history. It should be protected and preserved, not redefined, for absolutes are stronger than steel while redefinitions are nothing more than a slippery slope of shifting sand.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in King v. Burwell: “The Supreme Court’s decision does not change that Obamacare is a drain on the economy, and millions of Americans continue to see their insurance premiums and deductibles skyrocketing. Obamacare continues to increase healthcare costs while also harming access to quality care – especially for our seniors. I will continue to fight for patient-centered solutions that put individuals and families back in charge of their health care decisions.” ###
06.24.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House passed the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act of 2015 (H.R. 1190) by a vote of 244-154. “Obamacare continues to be a drain on the economy and job creation and is harmful to our seniors. The President’s hand-selected and bureaucratic Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) threatens seniors’ access to medical care and strips Congress of its ability to oversee Medicare spending. Repealing IPAB ensures that seniors will not be subject to the whims of this board and helps protect their access to quality healthcare.” ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House passed the Protect Medical Innovation Act (H.R. 160). “There is still much work to be done to completely halt and reverse the negative impact of Obamacare on jobs, the economy, and access to quality care. Repealing the medical device tax is a step in the right direction. The medical device tax kills jobs, stifles innovation, and hurts seniors who rely on these life-saving devices. Today I voted to repeal this harmful policy and I will continue to fight against the President’s failed health care laws moving forward.” ###
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-07) released the following statement the House passed Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) legislation: "Passing TPA is critical to reestablishing and asserting American leadership in the world. Our allies want to know that America is committed to trade and leading the global economy. They want to see proof that the foreign policy of the Obama Administration is a temporary aversion from America's traditional position of strength and engagement -- not a permanent one. Passage of TPA sends a strong signal that America is back on the world stage and ready to lead. Furthermore, this bill puts in place specific criteria that must be adhered to when negotiating trade agreements. It requires consistent consultation with Congress, and also requires trade agreements to be made public, so that the American people and Congress can evaluate them thoroughly. Currently, this president and administration are not obligated to follow these measures -- passing TPA changes that," said Congressman David Rouzer. "Opening new markets for our businesses and farm families in Southeastern North Carolina is critical to economic growth here in the 7th Congressional District. TPA puts a process in place that makes it easier to open foreign markets to sell our products and create more jobs. Even more important, it means America will be writing the rules of the global economy -- not China." ###
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7), Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House passed the Country of Origin Labeling Amendments Act of 2015 (H.R. 2393). “After numerous failed attempts to make Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) compliant with the World Trade Organization, it has become apparent that full repeal of COOL is not only the right thing to do, it is our only viable option,” said Congressman Rouzer. “Failure on Congress’ part to quickly bring the United States into compliance with our international obligations will result in significant damage to our national economy given the retaliatory measures Canada and Mexico are prepared to take.” “It’s also important to note that repeal of COOL will not negatively affect the safety or quality of our food. Suppliers in foreign countries will still be expected to comply with the same inspection standards as they do now.”
06.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) joined members of the North Carolina delegation in sending a letter to the National Commission on the Future of the Army (NCFA) urging the Commission to maintain a robust role for the Army National Guard. “The National Guard is a critical component to our national security. They have considerable expertise in domestic operations and a wealth of knowledge and experience from combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Congressman Rouzer. “At a third of the cost of active forces when not mobilized, the National Guard provides a place for trained and experienced Soldiers to continue their service when they leave active duty. If we do not provide them with this avenue, we risk losing their skills and abilities.” The NCFA will study the right balance between the active, reserve, and Army National Guard, and they will submit a report to Congress with recommendations based on our current and future resources and threats to our national security. A copy of the letter may be found here: Final CODEL Commission letter signed.pdf
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House passed the American Research and Competitiveness Act (H.R. 880). “This bill lets innovative companies here in the United States and in Southeastern North Carolina continue to develop new technologies and create high-wage jobs,” said Congressman Rouzer. "I was a proud co-sponsor of this bill because it provides much needed certainty and will enable businesses to make the long-term investments in Research & Development necessary to grow our economy." H.R. 880 makes the R&D Tax Credit permanent, paving the way for increased innovation and investment in the U.S. The R&D credit generally allows taxpayers a 20 percent credit for qualified research expenses or a 14 percent alternative simplified credit (ASC). Under current law, the research credit expires for amounts paid or incurred after December 31, 2014. ###
05.21.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Monday, Americans for Tax Reform (ATR) announced their support for Congressman Rouzer’s (NC-7) No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act (H.R. 1206). This bill prohibits the hiring of additional IRS employees until the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that no employee of the IRS has a seriously delinquent tax debt. “One would think that ‘willfully violating tax law’ would be a disqualifier for government work, especially at the IRS. Guess not,” said Grover Norquist, President of Americans for Tax Reform. “I would like to thank Americans for Tax Reform for supporting this bill. It’s time we hold the IRS to the same standards to which they hold taxpayers,” said Congressman Rouzer. ###
05.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer’s (NC-7) office will host a Disaster Preparedness Forum on Thursday, May 28th from 4:30-6:30pm. Details for the event are below. The Disaster Preparedness Forum will provide residents along the coast with helpful information and tips on how to prepare for emergencies like hurricanes. Topics will include mobilization and evacuation strategies, North Carolina Emergency Management’s role in disasters, coastal degradation and reclamation issues, and the role of the Red Cross, followed by a brief question and answer session. This event is open to the public and is free of charge. To RSVP please email nc07.events@mail.house.gov or call 910-253-6111. Event Details: When: Thursday, May 28th Time: 4:30-6:30pm Where: Wilmington Police Department – Blue Room 615 Bess Street Wilmington, NC 28402 ###
05.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Rouzer (NC-7) introduced H.R. 2281, the States’ Education Reclamation Act of 2015, which would return control of our student’s education back to state and local leaders. The Department of Education’s budget has ballooned from $14 billion to almost $65.7 billion and the average salary for their employees is $108,571. Meanwhile, the national average salary for public school teachers is $56,103. The States’ Education Reclamation Act of 2015 proposes the responsible elimination of the Department of Education and replaces it with a grant program funded at the 2012 levels. Additionally, this bill retains certain Department programs, like the Federal Pell Grant Program, and would transfer them to more appropriate government agencies. “The States’ Education Reclamation Act of 2015 takes an important step in getting the federal government out of education as much as possible,” said Congressman Rouzer. “I am a firm believer that our local and state education leaders should have maximum flexibility so they can meet the needs of our school systems, parents, teachers, and students. They know more about the needs of our students than any bureaucrat in Washington.” ###
05.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement after the House passed the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. “The Environmental Protection Agency’s attempt to unilaterally redefine the ‘Waters of the US’ is another example of government overreach. This new definition would extend the EPA’s regulatory reach to seemingly any body of water– including water puddled in a ditch after a rain storm. Small business owners, farmers, realtors, and homebuilders all agree: this rule is bad for business in Southeastern North Carolina. “The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act requires the EPA to scrap their current proposal and start anew by engaging stakeholders that are actually affected by this rule. This common sense bill passed with bi-partisan support.” Congressman Rouzer spoke on the House floor this afternoon in support of the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. His full speech can be seen here.
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Burr (R-N.C.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), along with Representative David Rouzer (R- N.C. 7), introduced legislation to correct a mistake by the Census Bureau and the Office of Management of Budget (OMB) that is adversely affecting eastern North Carolina. Two years ago, OMB issued new delineations for Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) that arbitrarily separated Brunswick County from the Wilmington metropolitan area. MSAs are commonly used by businesses to determine the size of new markets and to analyze the workforce. Separating Brunswick County from Wilmington has led to an understatement of the size of the state's economy in the region and hurt economic development. This legislation requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to consider Brunswick County part of the same metropolitan statistical area as Wilmington, North Carolina, as has historically been the case. "In a classic Washington maneuver, this mindless application of bureaucratic rule at the federal level has had an enormous effect on the economy in the area. This is a fact that all North Carolinians know -- Brunswick County is part of the greater Wilmington area," said Burr. "However since the Administration has chosen not to address this mistake, I’ve joined together with other member’s of our state’s delegation to make sure OBM’s guidelines reflect what reality looks like for people in North Carolina." “The Administration made a misguided decision to separate Brunswick County from the Wilmington metropolitan area, which in turn has had a harmful economic impact on the region. I am pleased to join Senator Burr and Congressman Rouzer in correcting this error by ensuring that Brunswick County is considered part of the Wilmington metropolitan area,” said Tillis. “I strongly urge the Administration to correct this mistake,” said Congressman Rouzer. “Separating Brunswick County from the greater Wilmington area hinders economic growth in the Care Fear region. I appreciate the help and support from my colleagues in the North Carolina delegation to address this issue.” ###
04.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Rouzer (NC-7) wrote a letter to the Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee encouraging them to honor Johnston County native Ava Gardner with a “Forever” postage stamp. The Citizens’ Stamp Advisory Committee is appointed by the Postmaster General and provides expertise on history, science and technology, art, education, sports, and other subjects of public interest. The committee’s primary goal is to recommend stamp subjects to the Postmaster General, who makes the final decision. “Ava Gardner is a North Carolina treasure and an international film legend. Despite her success on the silver screen, Ava never forgot her humble Johnston County roots. She worked tirelessly to give back to her community and was recognized by the U.S. Armed Forces for her spirit of public service. I am proud to call Ava Gardner a fellow North Carolinian and hope to see her memory honored with a “Forever” stamp - just as it should be.” See Congressman Rouzer’s full letter here: ###
04.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman Rouzer (NC-7) introduced the Stop EPA Overregulation of Rural Americans, which would repeal the Environmental Protection Agency’s most recent rule for new residential wood heaters. In early March, the EPA published a final rule establishing federal standards for residential wood heaters. Small manufacturers are concerned that these standards would make heaters too cost prohibitive to produce. Rural residents are worried because the costs of additional regulations are always passed down to the consumer, and many rural residents rely on wood-burning heaters to keep their energy costs low. “This is a classic example of EPA nonsense,” said Congressman Rouzer. “The federal government has no business telling private citizens how they should heat their homes. This is one more regulation that will cause unnecessary harm and cost small businesses and families all across America.” ###
04.20.2015	We are fortunate to have so many successful small businesses and family farms in Southeastern North Carolina. Many of these businesses have become an extended part of our community as they have been passed down from generation to generation. But, the longevity of these family owned and operated businesses is threatened by a sluggish economy, onerous rules and regulations, and especially the estate tax, also known as the death tax. These family businesses are the job creators in our communities. They employ our friends and family and often provide great opportunities for young people. We need to be implementing policies that encourage stability and growth. The death tax does the exact opposite. The death tax is a federal tax on the value of property and other assets passed on from one generation to the next at the time of a death, forcing families to make difficult decisions about how they spend their hard earned money. Do they cut back and begin to prepare for the inevitable tax or grow their business and create jobs? Unfortunately, some businesses will be forced to close their doors. Paying this tax will be especially difficult for farmers whose life work is tied to the land. North Carolina has 50,000 farms, 98 percent of which are family operated. Furthermore, the death tax amounts to double taxation, penalizing hard-working Americans for being successful. Small businesses and our farm families already pay taxes on the money they earn. They shouldn’t be forced to pay taxes on it again when it is transferred to their heirs. Quite simply, the death tax is government theft at its worst. That’s why I support the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015 (H.R. 1105). In addition to voting for this bill, I am also a co-sponsor of the Death Tax Repeal Act (H.R. 173). Both bills would permanently and fully eliminate the death tax. I will continue to fight for our small businesses and family farms. We need to create an environment where Americans can work hard, create a successful business, and pass on their legacy to the next generation without the federal government stealing part, or in many cases, all of it. ###
04.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement today marking his first 100 days in Congress. “Our office has been working hard to address the needs of the citizens and communities throughout the 7th Congressional District as well as to help make America, once again, be prosperous at home and strong abroad. In the first 100 days we have helped 345 constituents through casework, answered 14,926 letters, scheduled 27 tours, and made more than 69,500 constituent contacts. Constituent service has been and will continue to be a top priority. “Congress has passed several common-sense, bi-partisan bills like the Keystone Pipeline and the Hire More Heroes Act aimed at creating more jobs. Additionally, we made significant progress for our doctors and hospitals by making permanent a new formula for their payments under Medicare. This marked the first meaningful reform of the program in 20 years. This new law provides certainty for our doctors and will result in greater access to quality care for senior citizens on Medicare. The House also passed a conservative budget that balances in 10 years, cuts current spending by $5.5 trillion, and keeps our national security a priority. “We will continue to fight for a conservative agenda focused on growing an opportunity economy from the ground up to help get people back to work, lower costs at home, and restore opportunity for everyone.” ###
04.16.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act. “The death tax is government theft at its worst, and I am proud the House has voted to repeal it. The Senate should do the same, and quickly.” ###
04.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer invited interested citizens from across the 7th Congressional district to participate in advisory council meetings this week. The advisory councils engaged different sectors within our communities throughout the district including agriculture, small business, veterans/defense, law enforcement/DHS, healthcare, and education. Meetings were held in Johnston, New Hanover, and Bladen Counties. “The advisory councils provide an opportunity for us to share ideas on the many complex issues we are facing as well as provide a forum for concerns to be heard and addressed,” said Representative Rouzer. “It is important to me to have a variety of viewpoints and experience to draw upon as we work towards making changes in Washington. We must reduce the burdens an overly intrusive government has created while making improvements in those areas where government has a legitimate and constitutional responsibility. “I look forward to working with these distinguished men and women. Their insights into issues that affect the district are invaluable." ###
03.26.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. “The permanent repeal of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) ends 17 years of short-term patches that cost the taxpayers $170 billion during that period of time. Additionally, the uncertainty brought about by these short-term patches coupled with the structure of Medicare's reimbursement formula has forced many doctors to quit taking Medicare patients. “I voted for this bi-partisan package because it will result in greater access to quality care for senior citizens on Medicare, provide much needed certainty for our doctors, and achieve the first meaningful entitlement reform in 20 years, which is critical to getting Washington's spending under control. Under current spending practices dictated by law, Medicare is one of the primary drivers of the national debt. This spending, left unchecked, will continue to skyrocket without structural changes to the Medicare program. This bill is a very good first step to tackling the tough challenges we face to preserve and protect Medicare." ###
03.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement today after the House passed the Republican Budget. “I’ve always said it’s not what you make that gets you in trouble, it’s what you spend. America’s national debt is $18 trillion and climbing. Washington’s out-of-control spending must end. If families across North Carolina are required to live within their means, then so should the federal government. “Today, I voted for a conservative budget passed by the full House that balances within 10 years, reduces spending under current law by $5.5 trillion, and keeps our national security a top priority. It also repeals Obamacare, along with its onerous tax increases, while strengthening Medicare for our seniors. “I made a commitment to the people of North Carolina’s 7th District to help get our spending under control. Today’s vote is a step in the right direction and shows our commitment to restoring fiscal sanity in Washington.” ###
03.19.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) introduced a bill that will designate at least one city in the United States each year as an “American World War II City.” The legislation names Wilmington, NC as the first recognized city. Cities seeking recognition will be ones that have preserved the history of the city’s contributions to the war effort and recognizes our World War II veterans. “The City of Wilmington played a significant role in the war effort and is very deserving of the title “American World War II City.” The city has done a fantastic job of preserving important pieces of war history including the USS North Carolina. It’s time we recognize cities all over the country for their contributions to the war effort. “A special thanks to Wilbur Jones of Wilmington, NC who has worked tirelessly to get this special recognition for Wilmington.” ###
03.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Earlier this week, Congressman David Rouzer introduced his first bill of the 114th Congress. The No Hires for the Delinquent IRS Act (H.R. 1206) prohibits the hiring of additional IRS employees until the Secretary of the Treasury certifies that no employee of the IRS has a seriously delinquent tax debt. “If the IRS expects us to file our tax returns correctly and in a timely manner, then we should expect the bureaucrats running this bloated agency to do the same,” said Congressman Rouzer. “This is a commonsense bill that will encourage the IRS to clean up its act.” ####
03.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement ahead of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint session of Congress today: “I look forward to Prime Minister Netanyahu’s speech today. The nation of Israel is our friend in the War on Terror and the Prime Minister’s perspective on the situation in the Middle East is important to our nation’s national security and the safety of our allies around the world. From the growing threat of ISIS to the Iranian nuclear agenda, our partnership and cooperation with Israel is central to defeating radical Islamists.” ###
02.23.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer held a series of roundtable discussions with county commissioners and mayors across the district during last week’s Congressional recess period. This was an opportunity for local elected officials to talk about the needs of their communities and how the Congressman’s office can best serve them. “It’s important that we have strong relationships with our local leaders,” said Congressman Rouzer. “Our district is very diverse and each community has different needs. We will work hard to be a strong voice for all of the communities of the 7th Congressional District. I appreciate all the input and feedback we have received from county commissioners, mayors, and many other interested citizens throughout the week. Jobs, the economy, and infrastructure needs have been the predominant topics of concern along with the growing threat of terrorism." ###
02.13.2015	Washington, D.C.– This week Congress passed three bipartisan bills that face veto threats from President Obama. On Wednesday the House voted to send the Keystone XL Pipeline project to the President’s desk. The following day the America Gives More Act of 2015, which encourages charitable giving by permanently extending charitable deductions for contributions of food, passed with bipartisan support. Today, the House passed America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2015, which makes permanent tax provisions that help family farms and small businesses. “These are bipartisan, common sense bills that will help get our economy back on track,” said Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7). “The House is making job creation and tax relief a priority, while the President continues to stand in the way. He should do what is right and sign these bills.” ###
02.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer released a joint statement with the North Carolina Farm Bureau Federation, the North Carolina Association of Realtors, and the Business Alliance for a Sound Economy (BASE) denouncing the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed rule change to the definition of “Waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act. Currently the EPA’s oversight applies to all navigable waters. Under the proposed rule change the “Waters of the U.S.” would include smaller bodies of water and even some dry land. This new definition would extend the EPA’s regulatory reach to seemingly any body of water. Today the Transportation & Infrastructure Committee and the Environment and Public Works Committee hosted a joint hearing to examine how the rule change would impact state and local governments. “I am greatly concerned about the impact this rule change would have on Southeastern North Carolina,” said Congressman David Rouzer. “The new rule is so vague that it could require our farmers and property owners to get permission from a federal bureaucrat before acting on their own property. In talking with small business owners, farmers, realtors, and homebuilders, it’s clear the rule change could negatively affect every industry.” “At the local, state, and federal level, this is an issue that has united businesses, local governments, and citizens,” said Tyler Newman, Senior Government Affairs Director for BASE. “Simply, the rules would hamper future investment across wide areas of North Carolina. We appreciate Congressman Rouzer’s continued leadership on this issue.” “A study by the Civitas Institute found that the new EPA rules will cost the NC economy more than $1.5 billion in the next 15 years and will cost the taxpayers greatly,” said Cady Thomas, Director of Government Affairs for NC Association of Realtors. “The proposed rule provides essentially no limit to federal jurisdiction.” “I speak for our organization when I say this issue is a top priority that we follow closely,” said Larry Wooten, President of the NC Farm Bureau. “We applaud Congressman Rouzer’s efforts regarding the “Waters of the U.S.” to make sure the federal government does not cause unnecessary hardships of increased permitting burdens to our industry or rural communities.” ###
02.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 596, to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and health care-related provisions in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. “One of the best things we can do in Congress to create an environment for better-paying jobs is to repeal Obamacare. “Under Obamacare, health insurance premiums have gone up, access to quality care has gone down, and doctors all over this great land are plotting their exit strategies. Not to mention the chilling effect this law has had on our economy, resulting in lost jobs all over America.” ###
01.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) announced that his staff will hold monthly office hours in all twelve counties of the Seventh Congressional District. “Constituent service is the number one priority for our office. It’s important that we are accessible to every citizen. I like to put it this way: If you have a problem, it means that we have a problem.” The monthly schedule and location for each county is below (and attached). Constituents can get more information by calling our Bolivia district office at 910-253-6111. Bladen First Tuesday of each month 1:00 – 3:00 PM Elizabethtown Agricultural Center 450 Smith Circle Drive Elizabethtown, NC 28337 Columbus First Tuesday of each month 9:00 to 11:00 AM Whiteville Agricultural Center 45C Government Complex Road Whiteville, NC 28472 Cumberland First Wednesday of each month 1:00 – 3:00 PM Stedman Town Hall 5110 Front Street Stedman, NC 28391 Duplin First Wednesday of each month 9:00 – 11:00 AM Kenansville Agricultural Center 165 Agriculture Drive, Suite A Kenansville, NC 28349 Hoke/Robeson First Wednesday of each month 9:00 – 11:00 AM Raeford Agricultural Center 122 West Elwood Avenue, Suite 102 Raeford, NC 28376-1630 Johnston Second Wednesday of each month 1:00 – 3:00 PM Benson Town Hall 303 East Church Street Benson, NC 27504 Johnston Second Wednesday of each month 9:00 – 11:00 AM Clayton Town Hall 111 East 2nd. Street Clayton, NC 27520 Lenoir First Tuesday of each month 1:00 – 3:00 PM Pink Hill Town Hall 303 Central Avenue Pink Hill, NC 28572 Pender First Tuesday of each month from 9:00 – 11:00 AM Surf City Town Hall 214 North New River Drive Surf City, NC 28445 Sampson First Wednesday of each month 1:00 – 3:00 PM Clinton Town Hall 221 Lisbon Street Clinton, NC 28328 Download the Press Release (.pdf)
01.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement after the House passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act (H.R. 7). “On the 42nd anniversary of Roe v. Wade, we are all reminded how important it is to fight for those who cannot speak for themselves. This bill makes permanent the prohibition of taxpayer dollars for insurance plans that cover abortion services. I am proud to stand with the millions of those across the country who work daily to protect our most vulnerable.” ###
01.20.2015	On Monday, January 26th, Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) will hold a press conference at each district office to discuss constituent services and lay out his legislative agenda for the 114th Congress. All press are invited to attend. Congressman Rouzer will be available for interviews following the press conference. Details for each location are below. PRESS CONFERENCE DETAILS Date: Monday, January 26th Point of Contact: Tyler Foote Location: New Hanover County Government Complex 230 Government Center Drive, Suite 113 Wilmington, NC 28403 Time: 8:00-8:15am, media availability: 8:15-8:45am Location: Brunswick County Government Center 310 Government Center Drive, Unit 1 Bolivia, NC 28422 Time: 9:45-10:00am, media availability: 10:00-10:15am Location: Johnston County Agriculture Center 2736 NC Hwy 210 Smithfield, NC 27577 Time: 1:15-1:30pm, media availability: 1:30-2:00pm Please let Tyler Foote know of your plans to attend – Tyler.Foote@mail.house.gov or 202-680-2344.
01.20.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released the following statement after President Obama’s State of the Union address. “President Obama’s speech was the same act we’ve seen for the last six years. Give everything away and make hardworking taxpayers foot the bill. Americans deserve a government that is effective, efficient, and accountable -- not more of the same.” ###
01.13.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) announces new staff hires for his district office. Dwight Williams will serve as the Congressman’s District Director. Mr. Williams spent the past 27 years working with the North Carolina Farm Bureau Mutual Insurance Company and the American Farm Bureau Insurance Services, Inc. During his time with the Farm Bureau, Dwight worked in several capacities serving as Crop Insurance Field Representative, Raleigh Regional Manager, and most recently, Training and Marketing Manager where he worked with 15 Farm Bureau member states. He has also served as chairman of the Sampson County Republican Party as well as chairman of the Sampson County Board of Elections. Dwight graduated from North Carolina State University with a B.S. Degree in Biological and Agricultural Engineering. He is very active in Hopewell United Methodist Church in Newton Grove. Dwight has two adult sons and daughters and resides with his wife Debbie on the family farm outside of Newton Grove. “Dwight’s depth of knowledge of the district and his work experience will enable him to serve the citizens of this district very well. I am delighted to have Dwight heading up our district team,” said Congressman Rouzer. Additionally, Chance Lambeth will serve as Deputy District Director and will be focused on coastal issues. Previously, Chance worked on Congressman Rouzer’s congressional campaign as his political director. In that role, he focused on voter turnout and coastal issues. He also served as political director for Edwin Peacock’s mayoral campaign in Charlottte, NC in 2013. In 2012, Chance was a Regional Field Director for the Republican National Committee where he led one of the state’s most effective grassroots and voter turnout operations. “I am excited that Chance will continue to play a vital role in our office focusing on coastal issues. He’s developed strong relationships throughout the district and has a strong understanding of the unique needs of our coastal communities,” Congressman Rouzer said. ###
01.09.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congressman David Rouzer released to the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline Act by a vote of 266 to 153. “I applaud the House for approving the construction of the Keystone Pipeline with sweeping bipartisan support. This is a common sense bill that will create much needed jobs for the American people and is a step towards establishing energy independence from the Middle East and Russia. “The President has delayed action on this project for too long. In a time when too many are struggling to make ends meet, it’s irresponsible for the President to turn his back on families looking for good-paying jobs and lower energy costs.” According to the U.S. State Department, the Keystone XL project will support 40,100 jobs and $2 billion in earnings, and will transport an estimated 830,000 barrels of oil per day – the equivalent of nearly half of U.S. imports from the Middle East. ###
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman David Rouzer (NC-7) released the following statement Tuesday after being sworn into the 114th Congress. "I am honored to have the opportunity to represent the people of North Carolina's 7th Congressional District. My focus will be on reining-in Washington's out of control spending, eliminating job killing rules and regulations, and being a voice for our family farms and coastal communities. "The challenges we face are significant, but I look forward to working with my colleagues to champion solutions to help get this country back on track." Congressman Rouzer represents the 7th Congressional District of North Carolina which includes either all, or parts of, Bladen, Brunswick, Columbus, Cumberland, Duplin, Hoke, Johnston, Lenoir, New Hanover, Pender, Robeson, and Sampson counties. ###
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
11.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, North Carolina’s Congressional delegation received Governor Cooper’s disaster funding request as it continues its work to secure additional Hurricane Florence recovery funding from congressional appropriators to assist in rebuilding efforts in areas affected by the storm. The North Carolina Congressional delegation previously secured more than a billion dollars for the state’s long-term recovery in legislation passed in October. Click HERE to read the letter. “Hurricane Florence was one of the most devastating storms in our state’s history. The disaster funding request letter, submitted by Governor Roy Cooper today, builds upon our delegation’s bipartisan work to deliver critical resources to help communities still struggling in the aftermath of the storm,” said Congressman Rouzer. “I applaud the state’s efforts and look forward to continuing our work, at all levels of the government, to help our state rebuild stronger than ever.” “North Carolina suffered wide-spread devastation from Hurricane Florence, causing billions of dollars in damages to communities across our state,” said Senator Tillis. “The effort by Governor Cooper and the North Carolina state government to assess the damages caused by Hurricane Florence and submit a timely disaster funding request compliments the months-long work by the North Carolina Congressional delegation to ensure we receive additional federal relief to recover from this devastating storm.” “I stand with North Carolina’s Congressional delegation in supporting Governor Cooper’s request for additional disaster relief funding to help our fellow North Carolinians still hurting from Hurricane Florence,” said Senator Burr.“This additional funding is critical for helping our state get back on its feet soon and rebuilding after historic destruction. I look forward to continuing to work with Senator Tillis, Governor Cooper, and our colleagues in the House to ensure North Carolina gets the Federal support it needs.” “As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, I greatly appreciate Governor Cooper’s leadership in developing a disaster funding request based on sound data and analysis that will help guide our efforts in Washington,” said Congressman Price. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Governor and my House and Senate delegation colleagues to secure necessary funding for North Carolina’s full recovery.” “I’ve made it a priority to secure critical funds to help our neighbors impacted by Hurricane Florence and will continue to work in a bipartisan manner with our Governor, our two Senators and our House delegation, said Congressman Hudson.” “I thank Governor Cooper for his steadfast leadership as our state works to rebuild from Hurricane Florence,” said Congressman G. K. Butterfield “Today, Governor Cooper provided Congress with a thoughtful and comprehensive request for federal assistance in North Carolina’s Hurricane Florence recovery efforts. In the waning days of the 115th Congress, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the North Carolina Congressional Delegation to secure vital federal funding needed to help North Carolina recover even stronger than before.” “Hurricane Florence inflicted billions of dollars in damage, caused catastrophic flooding and upended the lives of families across North Carolina,” said Congressman Holding. “Individuals and businesses hurt by the storm are in need of relief. In October, Congress initially authorized a down payment for disaster relief while we awaited a full assessment of the damage. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the Carolinas have the resources needed to rebuild and recover from Hurricane Florence.” “Hurricane Florence was truly devasting to many families throughout North Carolina, ultimately causing billions of dollars in damage,” said Congresswoman Adams. “I thank Governor Cooper for his leadership during the ongoing recovery efforts and I proudly stand by his funding request, which will ensure that our state has the resources needed to make a full recovery.” ###
